TROY, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2024-64, passed 12-16-2024
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service # 6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Parties to an offense
   
10.19   Acts punishable under different sections
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
   
10.21   Code does not affect prior offenses, and the like
   
10.22   Alteration of code
   
10.23   Effective date of ordinances
 
   
10.98   Police Department fees and charges
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Troy shall be designated as the
“code of ordinances of Troy” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALDERMEN. The Aldermen of the City of Troy.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Troy, irrespective
of its population or legal classification.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The City Council of the city.
   CORPORATE OR CITY LIMITS. The legal boundaries of the city.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the city; Aldermen and Mayor of the
city.
   COUNTY. Madison County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Madison County, Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.24)
   DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department or some other city officer to perform some duty, it is to be
construed to authorize the head of the department or other officer to
designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the duty unless the
terms of the provision designate otherwise.
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of the officer, either
generally or in special cases.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.08)
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender may be applied to females and
to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to males.
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   ILL. REV. STAT.  The general and permanent laws of Illinois, as now or
hereafter amended.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority thereof.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Troy.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5.
   NONTECHNICAL AND TECHNICAL WORDS. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
   NUMBER. Words importing the singular number may extend and be applied to
several persons or things, and words importing the plural number may include
the singular.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.12)
   OFFICERS, AGENCIES GENERALLY. Whenever any officer or agency is referred to
by title, such as “Clerk,” “Police Department” or any other such title, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Troy.”
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the city.
POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ of a city
as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be appointed
and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.20)
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next before and
next after, respectively.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-188)
   SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION.  The SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION of a person shall
include a mark when the person cannot write.
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in Section 1 of Article
VII of the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WHOLESALE, WHOLESALE DEALER,  or WHOLESALER.  The term WHOLESALE, WHOLESALE
DEALER, or WHOLESALER unless otherwise specifically defined, shall relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for purposes of resale, as distinguished from a retail dealer who
sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
(1986 Code, § 1-2)
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be (1) in the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark, or (2) an electronic signature as
defined in the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, except as otherwise
provided by law.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.15)  
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(ILCS Ch. 5, Act 70, § 2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) of this section.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of
repealed chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code should be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section of this code in
substantially the following language:
      That section _______ of the Code of Ordinances, City of Troy, Illinois,
is hereby amended to read as follows:______ [Set out new provisions in full]
_____.
   (C)   When the City Council desires to enact an ordinance of a general and
permanent nature on a subject not heretofore existing in the code, which the
City Council desires to incorporate into the code, a section in substantially
the following language shall be made a part of the ordinance:
      Section_______. It is the intention of the City Council and it is hereby
ordained that the provisions of this ordinance shall become and be made a part
of the Code of Ordinances, City of Troy, Illinois, and the sections of this
ordinance may be renumbered to accomplish such intention.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions of this code desired to
be repealed should be specifically repealed by section number or chapter
number, as the case may be.
(1986 Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      The city shall make available to any person for inspection or copying all
public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 140, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 10.18 PARTIES TO AN OFFENSE.
   Every person who commits, attempts to commit, conspires to commit or aids or
abets in the commission of any act declared in this code to be an offense or
unlawful or a misdemeanor, whether individually or in connection with one or
more other persons or as principal, agent or accessory, shall be guilty of the
offense, unlawful act or misdemeanor, and every person who falsely,
fraudulently, forcibly or wilfully induces, causes, coerces, requires, permits
or directs another to violate any provision hereof shall likewise be guilty of
the offense, unlawful act or misdemeanor.
(1986 Code, § 1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Parties to crime, see Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 6, §§ 5-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 ACTS PUNISHABLE UNDER DIFFERENT SECTIONS.
   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, however, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
(1986 Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the City Council during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In the preparation of a supplement to this code, all portions of the
code which have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this section” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections ______ to _______” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted in the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(1986 Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.21 CODE DOES NOT AFFECT PRIOR OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or
any contract established or accruing before the effective date of this code.
   (B)   The adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or
suffering any use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in
violation of any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of
this code.
(1986 Code, § 1-10)
§ 10.22 ALTERATION OF CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to change or amend, by
additions or deletions, any portion of this code, to insert or delete pages or
portions thereof or to alter or tamper herewith in any manner which will cause
the law of the city to be misrepresented.
(1986 Code, § 1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.23 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law or the ordinance affected, all
ordinances shall take effect upon their passage.
(1986 Code, § 1-15)
Statutory reference:
   Effective date of ordinances, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4
§ 10.98 POLICE DEPARTMENT FEES AND CHARGES.
   The following is a list of applicable fees and charges for services
performed by the Troy Police Department:
Description Amount
Description                                 Amount
Police Report                               $5.00
Records Check                               $10.00
Fingerprints                                $20.00
Dog Release                                 $20.00
Tow Release (Ord. 2011-22)                  $200.00
False Alarms                                $25.00
Sex Offender (Initial Registration/Renewal) $100.00
(730 ILCS 150/3(c)(6))
OVT (Ord. 2012-08)                          $50.00
Bail Processing Fee                         $20.00
 
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 2-6-2017)
Cross-reference:
   See also Clerk to forward information to Police Department, §
110.04
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
city, for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any city officer
or employee shall be construed as to make the officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform the duty,
unless the intention of the City Council to impose such a fine or penalty on
the officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   (C)   As provided herein, police officers of the city and, in instances of
violation of Building and Health Codes, the Building Inspector shall issue an
ordinance violation ticket, hereinafter referred “OVT,” for certain minor
ordinance violations in lieu of arrest or the immediate prosecution in the
Circuit Court of the state.
      (1)   An OVT shall only be issued for a city ordinance violation other
than a violation involving circumstances in which an individual is accused of
driving under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs, circumstances in which
an individual is accused of driving more than 15 miles per hour over the
applicable speed limit, circumstances posing a threat to the safety of the
community or for violations of Chapter 72 of the city.
      (2)   An OVT shall not be issued to any individual who has previously
been issued an OVT for the same ordinance violation within the preceding six-
month period.
      (3)   An OVT shall only be issued in instances in which the individual
accused of an ordinance violation cooperates fully with the police officers
and/or in the relevant investigation of the alleged ordinance violation.
      (4)   The following procedures apply herein:
         (a)   When an OVT is issued, the individual accused may settle and
compromise the claim against him or her by paying the city a fine in the amount
of $50 within ten days of date of issuance. When compliance with an ordinance
is required, the person accused shall satisfy the proper city authorities that
compliance has been completed within the ten-day period.
         (b)   In the event that payment of the aforesaid $50 fine and the
compliance as required are not accomplished within the ten-day period, the
applicable fine shall be increased to the amount of $60 for the period
beginning the eleventh day and including the thirtieth day after issuance of
the OVT. The offender shall have until the close of business on the thirtieth
day to satisfy the $60 charge and comply with the violated ordinance.
         (c)   If the person accused of the violation does not settle the
charge, including payment of the fine and compliance where required, by the
thirtieth day, a complaint will be filed in the Circuit Court for the
violation. The offender shall be subject to fines, penalties and court costs,
as fully set forth in the applicable provisions of the city ordinances and
statutes of the state.
(1986 Code, § 1-4) (Ord. 1991-19, passed 10-7-1991; Ord. 2012-08, passed 7-2-
2012)
State Constitution reference:
   Imprisonment for debt, see Const., Art. I, § 14
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 1-2-1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1
   Punishments for violations of ordinances, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-
1 et seq.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Seal established
   
11.02   Ward boundaries
§ 11.01 SEAL ESTABLISHED.
   The seal of the city shall be a circular disk with the words “City of Troy,
Illinois” in the outer circle and words “Organized A.D. 1892” in the interior
of the circle.
(1986 Code, § 2-1)
§ 11.02 WARD BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the wards of the city shall be as follows:
   Ward 1. Starting at the North East corner of Center Street and Collinsville
Road going East on Center Street to Washington Street, then South to Prospect
Street, then East to South Main Street, then South and including all other
property located to the West of South Main Street to Route 40, then East along
Route 40, then South Easterly along the North Easterly property line of Hampton
Glen Subdivision, then South along the North/South property line of said
subdivision to Country Lane, then west on the north side of Country Lane and
the South property line of Meadowbrooke Subdivision to the North/South property
line of Spring Valley Subdivision, then South to the East/West property line of
Charleston Subdivision, then West to Spring Valley Road, then North on Spring
Valley Road to the North boundary line of Spring Valley Subdivision, then East
along said subdivision boundary line to the North/South line of said
subdivision, then North and West along the city corporate line to Route 40,
then East along the city corporate line to Sherburne Avenue, then going
northerly along the city corporate line to Collinsville Road. Then following
Collinsville Road North East to Center Street at the point of beginning.
   Ward 2. Starting at the South East corner of Market Street and S. Main
Street going East to Hickory Street, then North on West side of Staunton Road
to the intersection of Kimberlin Street, then Westerly following the city
corporate line to the Northerly city corporate line, then North to the Pin Oak
Township line, then West to the West boundary of the Third Addition to
Northwoods at Park Forest, then South Easterly to the intersection of the Third
Addition to Northwoods at Park Forest and Park Forest #12, then west along the
South boundary of Northwoods at Park Forest, then South West along the East
side of Hummingbird Court to the South side of Bluebird Lane, then West to Reid
Avenue, then West to Riggin Road, then South to the intersection of
Collinsville Road and Spring Valley Road, then North Easterly on Collinsville
Road to Market Street, then East to the point of beginning.
   Ward 3.  All property to the east of Wards 1 and 2 and north of Route 40.
   Ward 4. All property to the west of Wards 1 and 2 and north of Ward 2.
(1986 Code, § 2-3) (Ord. 1981-2, passed 10-4-1982; Ord. 1982-8, passed 10-4-
1982; Ord. 2002-24, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 2011-14, passed 10-3-2011)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS; DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
      
35.   POLICE
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   FINANCES AND PURCHASING; FEE SCHEDULE
      
38.   POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Fiscal year
   
30.02   Commencement of terms of elected officials
   
30.03   Indebtedness
   
30.04   Contracts
   
30.05   Payment of bills
   
30.06   Annual audit
   
30.07   Surety bonds
   
30.08   Criteria for determining the residency of an elected official, or of
person seeking election as a city official
   
30.09   Participation in Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
Cross-reference:
   City seal, see
Ch. 11
   Ward boundaries, see
Ch. 11
§ 30.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 of the following year.
(1986 Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(5)
§ 30.02 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   The terms of office of all elected officials shall begin on May 1
immediately following the consolidated election in which those officials were
elected.
(1986 Code, § 2-2.1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-15
§ 30.03 INDEBTEDNESS.
   No indebtedness shall be incurred, except such indebtedness paid solely from
the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a designated specified
source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which the indebtedness
could be paid, as provided by statute; however, during the first quarter of any
fiscal year, before the enactment of the current appropriation ordinance, the
Mayor and Council may operate under the appropriation ordinance of the
preceding year.
(1986 Code, § 2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-1-1 et seq. and 8-5-1
§ 30.04 CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor, or any other person designated by the City Council, may sign on
behalf of the city any contract authorized by the Mayor and Council. No
contract may be entered into without the authority of the Mayor and City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.05 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   All bills payable by the city shall be approved by the City Council.
The preferred practice shall be for bills to be submitted to the City Council
for approval prior to their payment.
   (B)   Payment of the following types of bills may be made prior to their
approval by the City Council:
      (1)   Salaries, including payroll contributions required by law, which
have previously been established by the City Council;
      (2)   Refunds clearly owed by the city due to deposits made or
overpayments;
      (3)   Postage, particularly to mail water and sewer bills;
      (4)   Items required to be paid by a certain date by state or federal
law; and
      (5)   Emergency payments as deemed appropriate by the city officials
described below.
   (C)   Each of the bills referred to above shall be authorized by at least
two of the following city officials: Mayor, City Clerk, City Treasurer and City
Administrator.
   (D)   Each of the bills which have been paid upon authority of city
officials shall be presented to the City Council for its final approval and
ratification.
(1986 Code, § 2-6) (Ord. 1993-24, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 30.06 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than
six months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the city made
by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under state law. The
auditor shall be designated by the Mayor and Council. Copies of the audit
report shall be filed with the City Clerk and with the Director of the State
Department of Revenue and in such other places as may be required by law.
(1986 Code, § 2-7)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-8-1 et seq.
§ 30.07 SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the city is required as a
prerequisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on the bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in the state as a surety company, in the absence of specific provision
to the contrary by ordinance.
   (B)   Whenever, in its opinion, additional sureties or an additional surety
may be needed on any bond to indemnify the city against loss or liability
because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for any other
reason, the Mayor and City Council may order a new surety or sureties to be
secured for the bond. If the new surety or sureties are not procured within ten
days from the time the order is transmitted to the principal of the bond, or
his or her assignee, the Mayor and Council shall declare the bond to be void,
and thereupon the principal or assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the
privilege or position as condition of which the bond was required.
(1986 Code, § 2-8)
§ 30.08 CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING THE RESIDENCY OF AN ELECTED OFFICIAL, OR OF
PERSON SEEKING ELECTION AS A CITY OFFICIAL.
   (A)   For any elected official to be and remain a resident of the city, so
that he or she is qualified to hold that elective office in accordance with the
requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code, being ILCS Ch. 65, the structure
in which that elected official’s domicile is located must be entirely located
on a tract of land which is itself entirely within the corporate limits of the
city. The term TRACT OF LAND, as used in this division (A), means the single,
contiguous parcel of land described in the most recent conveyance of the fee
simple interest of the parcel of land in question, on which the elected
official’s domicile is entirely located.
   (B)   For any person seeking election as an official of the city to be a
resident of the city, so that he or she is qualified to hold that elective
office in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code, the
structure in which the person’s domicile is located must be entirely located on
a tract of land which is itself entirely within the corporate limits of the
city. The term TRACT OF LAND, as used in this division (B), means the single,
contiguous parcel of land described in the most recent conveyance of the fee
simple interest of the parcel of land in question, on which the domicile of the
person seeking election is entirely located.
   (C)   This section does not affect the length of time during which a person
must be a resident of the city before he or she is qualified to hold elective
office in the municipal government of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-10) (Ord. 1988-7, passed 4-4-1988)
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Municipal Code, see ILCS Ch. 65
§ 30.09 PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The city hereby elects to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement
Fund, effective January 1, 1989. The standard for the state municipal
retirement participation shall be a position normally requiring performance of
duty for 1,000 hours per year.
(1986 Code, § 2-11) (Ord. 1988-25, passed 8-15-1988)
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
Membership; Actions; Committees
   
31.01   Election of members; term of office
   
31.02   Powers and duties generally
   
31.03   Regular and adjourned meetings
   
31.04   Special meetings
   
31.05   Mayor to preside; deciding vote
   
31.06   Approval and veto of Council action
   
31.07   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
31.08   Quorum
   
31.09   Vote required to pass ordinances, resolutions and motions
   
31.10   Citizen participation
   
31.11   Appointment of special committees
   
31.12   Membership in committees
   
31.13   Standing committees enumerated; actions
Meetings
   
31.30   Records of meetings
   
31.31   Disturbing meetings
   
31.32   Compensation
   
31.33   Order of business
   
31.34   Rescinded action
   
31.35   Resolutions
   
31.36   (Reserved)
   
31.37   Suspension of rules of order
   
31.38   “Robert’s Rules of Order”
   
31.39   Meetings open to the public
   
31.40   Executive sessions
   
31.41   Electronic attendance policy
Statutory reference:
   Election and term of Aldermen, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-1-1 et seq.
MEMBERSHIP; ACTIONS; COMMITTEES
§ 31.01 ELECTION OF MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Aldermen shall be elected and serve for a four-year term.
(1986 Code, § 2-76)
§ 31.02 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Council shall be the legislative branch of the city
government and shall perform duties and have powers as may be authorized by
state law.
   (B)   In addition, each Alderman shall:
      (1)   Act as the representative of the people of the ward from which
elected;
      (2)   Act as chairperson of the standing committee or committees on which
the Mayor has appointed him or her chairperson. As chairperson, he or she shall
hold open and public meetings of his or her committee, after having first given
the public notice thereof required by the Illinois Open Meetings Act, being
ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq., whenever business is before his or her
committee. He or she shall cause minutes of the meetings to be kept and filed
with the City Clerk, to allow public inspection thereof, within seven days
after his or her committee approval of the minutes of those meetings. He or she
shall present to the City Council, either verbally or in writing, the
conclusions of his or her committee;
      (3)   Be an active participant on all other committees as assigned by the
Mayor; and
      (4)   Make motions, second motions and vote so that the city’s general
business can be brought before the City Council and action taken. The Aldermen
shall cast their votes in the alphabetical order of their surnames.
(1986 Code, § 2-77)
§ 31.03 REGULAR AND ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first and
third Monday of each month. If the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday,
the meeting shall take place on the next business day. Adjourned meetings may
be held at any other times as the City Council may determine.
(1986 Code, § 2-78) (Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-6-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.01; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-40-25
§ 31.04 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or three
Aldermen if a written notice of the meeting is given to each member of the City
Council at least 24 hours before the time set for the meeting. If all of the
elected members of the City Council are present at any special meeting, then
the requirement of written notice shall be unnecessary and shall be deemed
waived.
(1986 Code, § 2-79)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-40-25
§ 31.05 MAYOR TO PRESIDE; DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. The Mayor
shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except:
      (1)   When the vote of the Aldermen has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   When one-half of the Aldermen elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or
      (3)   When a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities is
required by the Illinois Municipal Code to adopt an ordinance, resolution or
motion.
   (B)   In the instances specified in division (A) above, the Mayor shall
vote.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem
from voting in his or her capacity as Alderman, but he or she shall not be
entitled to another vote in his or her capacity as acting Mayor or Mayor Pro
Tem.
(1986 Code, § 2-80)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-30
§ 31.06 APPROVAL AND VETO OF COUNCIL ACTION.
   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the city or
provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or provide for the
sale of city or school property, and all ordinances passed by the City Council
shall be deposited with the City Clerk. If the Mayor approves of them, he or
she shall sign them. Those which the Mayor disapproves shall be returned to the
City Council, with his or her written objections, within five business days.
The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums appropriated in any
ordinances, resolution or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the
remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove entirely of an
ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the Mayor fails to
return any ordinance, resolution or motion with his or her written objections,
within the designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of
his or her signature.
(1986 Code, § 2-81) (Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-6-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 6-4-2
§ 31.07 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   Every resolution and motion specified in the preceding §
31.06, and every ordinance which is returned to the City Council by the Mayor,
shall be reconsidered by the City Council at its next regular meeting. If,
after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Aldermen elected to the City
Council shall agree to pass an ordinance, resolution or motion, notwithstanding
the Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then it shall be effective. The vote on the
question of passage over the Mayor’s veto shall be by yeas and nays, and shall
be recorded in the journal.
(1986 Code, § 2-82)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-50
§ 31.08 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Aldermen, or the Mayor and one-half of the Aldermen, shall
constitute a quorum of the City Council to do business. This definition of a
quorum, however, does not change the vote required by any other section of this
code of ordinances or by any section of the Illinois Municipal Code for the
passage of an ordinance, resolution or motion.
(1986 Code, § 2-83)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 4-5-12
§ 31.09 VOTE REQUIRED TO PASS ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS.
   (A)   The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose shall require the
concurrence of a majority of the corporate authorities then holding office,
unless otherwise expressly provided by the Illinois Municipal Code, by any
other statute governing the passage of any ordinance, or by any other provision
of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The passage of all resolutions and motions which create any liability
against the city or which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of the
city’s money shall require the concurrence of a majority of the corporate
authorities then holding office, unless otherwise expressly provided by the
Illinois Municipal Code, by any other statute governing the passage of any
resolution or motion, or by any other provision of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Other resolutions and motions (that is, those which do not create any
liability against the city and which do not provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of the city’s money) may be passed by a majority of a quorum of
the City Council, unless their purpose is one which is described in the table
set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Ordinances, resolutions and motions which require, for their passage,
a vote different from a majority of the corporate authorities then holding
office include those that are set forth in the following table for the
assistance of the City Council, to guide it in its deliberations. In that
table, the term “Aldermen” refers to the Aldermen only and does not include the
Mayor; the terms “corporate authorities” and “City Council” include all the
Aldermen and the Mayor. The table does not address the question of when an
ordinance, as opposed to a resolution or motion, is required to accomplish a
particular purpose.
Statutory Reference ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5 Purpose Vote Required
Statutory
Reference   Purpose                                                                         Vote
ILCS Ch.                                                                                    Required
65, Act 5
            To make ordinance imposing fine, penalty or forfeiture effective immediately    2/
§ 1-2-4    rather than 10 days after publication                                           3 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
§ 3.1-20-40To provide for the election, rather than the appointment, of City Collector,    2/
            Marshal, Director of Public Works, Corporation Counsel or Comptroller           3 Aldermen
§ 3.1-30-5 To provide for the appointment, rather than the election, of City Collector,    2/
            Marshal, Director of Public Works, Corporation Counsel or Comptroller           3 Aldermen
§ 3.1-40-40To sell school property                                                         3/
                                                                                            4 Aldermen
§ 3.1-40-50To pass, over the Mayor’s veto, any ordinance, resolution or motion which     2/
            requires the Mayor’s approval in order to become effective                    3 Aldermen
            To make appropriations in addition to the annual appropriation ordinance for
            the purpose of making improvements or restorations, the necessity for which is
            caused by any casualty or accident happening after the annual appropriation     2/
§ 8-1-6    ordinance is passed, or to make additional appropriations necessary to meet any 3 corporate
            “emergency” (which concerns only immediate dangers to public health or safetauthorities
            happening after and unforeseen at the time of passing the annual appropriation
            ordinance
            To employ or retain professional services necessary for planning and financing  2/
§ 8-1-7    a needed public work, even though the annual appropriation ordinance did not    3 corporate
            contain an appropriation to pay for the services                                authorities
            To make transfers, during the second half of a fiscal year, within or between   2/
§ 8-2-9    municipal departments, of sums of money appropriated for one object or purpose  3 corporate
            to another object or purpose                                                    authorities
§ 8-9-1    To authorize letting of contracts for any work or other public improvement, the 2/
            expense of which will exceed $4,000, without bids                               3 Aldermen
            To authorize City Administrator to construct any work or other public
            improvement with laborers employed by the city, with all material of the value  2/
§ 8-9-1    of $4,000 and upward used in the construction of the work or other public       3 Aldermen
            improvement to be purchased by contract let to the lowest responsible bidder in
            the manner prescribed by ordinance
§ 11-13-14 To amend zoning regulations or districts over written protest of 20% of         2/
            designated landowners                                                           3 Aldermen
§ 11-14-3  To amend setback requirements in zoning ordinance                               2/3 City
                                                                                            Council
                                                                                            2/
§ 11-15.1-3To approve annexation agreement                                                 3 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
                                                                                            3/
§ 11-74-6  To authorize issuance of industrial project revenue bonds                       5 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
§ 11-76-1                                                                                  3/
            To sell or lease out real estate owned by the city                              4 corporate
§ 11-76-2                                                                                  authorities

            To authorize sale, trade in or change into other useful form of personal        3/
§ 11-76-4  property owned by the city                                                      4 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
            To purchase or acquire by lease real or personal property pursuant to           2/
§ 11-76.1-1installment contracts not exceeding 20 years in duration                        3 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
            To purchase or acquire by lease real or personal property pursuant to contracts 2/
§ 11-76.1-1containing lease-purchase provisions                                            3 corporate
                                                                                            authorities
§ 11-91-1  To vacate any public street or alley                                            3/
                                                                                            4 Aldermen
 
(1986 Code, § 2-83.1) (Ord. 1991-02, passed 2-4-1991; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012)
§ 31.10 CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
   The participation of citizens at City Council meetings shall be accomplished
as follows:
   (A)   Through their Aldermen;
   (B)   Through a Council committee;
   (C)   By participation during the “Citizen Participation” portion of the
Regular City Council meetings, limited to three minutes per citizen, unless
granted additional time by the Mayor;
   (D)   By participation during the approval of ordinances and resolutions,
limited to three minutes per citizen, with comments directed to the Council as
a whole (not directed at any individual Council member) and directed strictly
to the item under discussion.
   (E)   Each citizen who addresses the Council during a review session or
regular City Council meeting is directed to sign the citizen participation
register that can be found on the front podium, as well as to print their name
and any group or organization to which they are affiliated (if relevant to the
topic of their discussion). Citizens will be asked by the Mayor to state their
name, as well as affiliation (if relevant), prior to their discussion.
   (F)   The City Council's policy is to recognize the vital necessity of
obtaining comments from citizens and, therefore, citizens are asked to make a
concise statement of opinions and not to try to establish a dialogue with
Council Members. The purpose of this policy is to prevent lengthy digressions
and to give all citizens who desire to speak an opportunity to do so. Citizens
who wish to establish direct dialogue with an Alderman or Staff are encouraged
to direct questions to them outside of formal Council meetings.
   (G)   Groups or organizations who wish to address the Council are encouraged
to choose a spokesperson from the group to address the Council. Additional time
for presentation can be requested by a group by contacting the Mayor and City
Clerk and requesting (in writing) additional time during a Council review
session.
(1986 Code, § 2-84) (Ord. 2013-07, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 2014-18, passed 10-
20-2014; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-6-2022)
§ 31.11 APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor shall appoint any special committees as he or she may deem
necessary or as may be directed by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-85)
§ 31.12 MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the members of all standing and special
committees, in the absence of specific direction by the City Council, and shall
designate the chairperson and vice chairperson of each committee.
   (B)   Every committee of the City Council shall consist of four members,
including a chairman and vice chairman, unless the City Council shall provide
otherwise.
(1986 Code, § 2-86) (Ord. 2015-13, passed 5-4-2015)
§ 31.13 STANDING COMMITTEES ENUMERATED; ACTIONS.
   The following shall constitute the standing committees of the City Council.
The following statements of duties shall be construed as generally descriptive
and are not intended to limit or extend areas of responsibility for any
committee:
   (A)   Administrative and Community Services. The Administrative and
Community Service Committee provides liaison between the Council and the Zoning
Officer, the Planning Commission, and the Historic Preservation Commission. The
Committee also has certain oversight responsibilities specifically related to
the Building and Zoning Department. Other duties of this Committee include
oversight of matters pertaining to the administrative office, personnel,
employment contracts, collective bargaining, and municipal property and
building maintenance.
   (B)   Finance and Economic Development. The Finance and Economic Development
Committee generally oversees all matters of purchasing, spending, bonding,
taxing and other financial issues including the budget process. Major
expenditures are often screened in advance by the Finance Committee even if the
expenses have already been approved through the budget. Additionally, the
Committee will provide counsel and oversight to the Economic Development and
Tourism Coordinator, and provide liaison to the Economic Development
Commission.
   (C)   Law Enforcement and Emergency Services. The Law Enforcement and
Emergency Services Committee oversees matters related to the Police Department
and emergency medical and disaster preparedness powers of the municipality.
This Committee is charged with suggesting effective and efficient improvements
in the operations of the respective operations including, but not limited to
personnel levels. Although they have no influential authority in board
decisions, the Committee serves as a liaison to the city’s Board of Police
Commissioners and Police Pension Board. Those independent boards are charged by
Illinois law with hiring, disciplining and promoting law enforcement officers
and ensuring a solvent pension program for retired officers.
   (D)   Public Works. The Public Works Committee is generally charged with
overseeing the operations of the city’s water, wastewater and street
maintenance functions, including streets, sidewalks, right-of-way maintenance,
storm water drainage, traffic and street signs, fleet maintenance, water and
sewer infrastructure, street cleaning, and snow and ice removal.
(1986 Code, § 2-87) (Ord. 1995-09, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-
1995; Ord. 1997-19, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 2012-
10, passed 8-6-2012; Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 2015-13, passed 5-4-
2015 ; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-6-2022)
MEETINGS
§ 31.30 RECORDS OF MEETINGS.
   The City Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the City Council
proceedings.
(1986 Code, § 2-89)
§ 31.31 DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the City Council or of any
committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any meeting.
(1986 Code, § 2-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.32 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall receive as his or her compensation for the performance
of his or her duties the amount of $15,000 annually for the 12-month period
beginning May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022. Thereafter, the compensation paid
to the Mayor for the performance of his or her duties shall remain the same,
without any annual increments, for the periods of May 1, 2022 through April 30,
2023; May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024; and May 1, 2024 through April 30,
2025. The Mayor’s salary shall be paid to the Mayor in 12 equal monthly
installments.
   (B)   The Mayor shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by him or her in
attending committee meetings of the City Council and for other expenses
incurred by him or her when in the course of his or her duties as Mayor.
   (C)   An Alderman shall receive as compensation for the performance of his
or her duties the amount of $7,500 annually for the 12-month period beginning
May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022. Thereafter, the compensation paid to an
Alderman for the performance of his or her duties shall remain the same,
without any annual increments, for the periods of May 1, 2022 through April 30,
2023; May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024; and May 1, 2024 through April 30,
2025. An Alderman’s salary shall be paid to the Alderman in 12 equal monthly
installments.
   (D)   An Alderman shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by him or her in
attending committee meetings of the City Council and for other expenses
incurred by him or her when in the course of his or her duties as Alderman.
(1986 Code, § 2-91) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 1-27-1985; Ord. 1989-06, passed 1-24-
1989; Ord. 1993-01, passed 1-18-1993; Ord. 1993-02, passed 1-18-1993; Ord.
1996-32, passed 10-7-1996; Ord. 2000-25, passed 10-23-2000; Ord. 2004-23,
passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 2008-19, passed 10-9-2008; Ord. 2012-17, passed 9-17-
2012; Am. Ord. 2016-27, passed 9-19-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-19, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 31.33 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   (1)   An agenda, following the order of business outlined below, for
each regular meeting of the City Council shall be prepared by 4:30 p.m. Friday
immediately prior to the regular meeting:
      (2)   Regular City Council meeting:
         (a)   Call to Order and Pledge of allegiance;
         (b)   Roll call in alphabetical order;
         (c)   Reading and approval of minutes;
         (d)   Communications, to be provided by the City Clerk;
         (e)   Citizen participation, limited to three minutes per person;
         (f)   Mayor’s comments;
         (g)   City Administrator and City Attorney comments;
         (h)   Consent Agenda, including administrative reports and other items
to be voted collectively with one roll call vote;
         (i)   Administrative and Community Services Committee report,
including a report from the Building and Zoning Administrator;
         (j)   Finance and Economic Development Committee report, including a
report from the City Treasurer, as well as bills to be paid (on a monthly
basis), and a report from the Economic Development and Tourism Coordinator;
         (k)   Law Enforcement and Emergency Services Committee report,
including a report from the Chief of Police;
         (l)   Public Works Committee report, including a report from the
Director of Public Works and the Public Works Department Schedule and Report;
         (m)   Reports of Special Committees (as needed);
         (n)   Ordinances and Resolutions, called by the City Clerk, with
citizen participation limited to three minutes per person;
         (o)   New Business;
         (p)   Closed Session, if needed;
         (q)   Adjournment.
   (B)   In preparing the agenda for a regular meeting, the items to be
considered under each portion of the order of business shall be listed. Any
item which is not listed on the agenda shall not be considered at the regular
meeting .
   (C)   The City Council may, upon a majority of the quorum concurring, agree
to alter the order of business for that meeting.
(1986 Code, § 2-92) (Ord. 1995-05, passed 2-20-1995; Ord. 1997-19, passed 5-5-
1997; Ord. 2012-08, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 2014-19, passed 10-20-2014; Ord.
2015-12, passed 5-4-2015 ; Ord. 2022-21, passed 6-6-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-15
§ 31.34 RESCINDED ACTION.
   No vote or action of the City Council shall be rescinded at any special
meeting unless there be present at such special meeting as many Aldermen as
were present at the meeting when the vote or action was taken.
(1986 Code, § 2-93)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-55
§ 31.35 RESOLUTIONS.
   Any resolution submitted to the City Council shall be reduced to writing
before being voted upon, at the request of any two members of the Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-94)
§ 31.36 (RESERVED).
§ 31.37 SUSPENSION OF RULES OF ORDER.
   The rules of order, other than those prescribed by state law, may be
suspended at any time by consent of a majority of the members of the City
Council present at any meeting.
(1986 Code, § 2-96)
§ 31.38 “ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.”
   Except when in conflict with the provisions of this subchapter, Robert’s
Rules Of Order shall govern the deliberations of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-97)
§ 31.39 MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All meetings of the City Council shall be open to the public in accordance
with state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-98)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1.01 et seq.
§ 31.40 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall keep a verbatim record of all closed or executive
session meetings of the corporate authorities of the city or any subsidiary
"public body," as defined by the Illinois Open Meetings Act, ILCS Chapter 5,
Act 120, §§ 1 et seq. The verbatim record shall be in the form of an audio or
video recording as determined by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for recording the closed or
executive sessions. In the absence of the City Clerk, the meeting Chair will
arrange for the recording of the closed or executive session. The City Clerk
shall maintain the verbatim recordings of all closed sessions of the City
Council and all subsidiary public bodies of the city.
   (C)   In addition to the recordings of the closed or executive sessions, the
City Clerk shall keep minutes of all closed meetings in accordance with the
Open Meetings Act, ILCS Chapter 5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
   (D)   Review of closed or executive session minutes must be completed every
six months. Minutes shall be reviewed in closed or executive session and shall
not be released unless the City Council finds that it is no longer necessary to
protect the public interest or the privacy of an individual by keeping it
confidential. Minutes of closed or executive sessions shall be kept
indefinitely.
   (E)   The audio recordings of closed or executive sessions shall be
maintained for 18 months after the closed or executive session occurred and
shall not be released to the public unless such a release is required by a
court order or specifically authorized for release by a vote of the City
Council. Members of the City Council may listen to the closed or executive
session recordings in the presence of the City Clerk. Copies of such recordings
will not be made or provided to anyone unless specifically authorized by the
City Council.
   (F)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to destroy the audio and video
recordings of those closed sessions for which:
      (1)   The City Council have approved the minutes of the closed or
executive sessions whether the minutes have been released or not;
      (2)   More than 18 months have passed since the date of the closed or
executive session;
      (3)   There is no court order requiring the preservation of such
recordings; and
      (4)   The City Council has not passed a motion requiring the preservation
of the verbatim recording of that meeting.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 31.41 ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE POLICY.
   (A)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the City Council that any member
of the City Council may attend and participate in any meeting of the Council by
"other means" defined as, by video or audio conference, provided that such
attendance and participation is in compliance with this policy and any other
applicable laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. A member of the City Council may attend a meeting
electronically, by other means, if the member meets the following conditions:
      (1)   A quorum of the Council is physically present throughout the
meeting; and, at least five affirmative votes of the members of the corporate
authority physically present, votes to approve the electronic attendance of the
meeting.
      (2)   The Council member requesting to attend remotely should notify the
City Clerk at least 24 hours before the meeting so that necessary
communications equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary
technical arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote
attendance.
      (3)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Council; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
      (4)   At the meeting, the City Clerk shall inform the Council Members
physically present of the request for electronic attendance.
   (C)   Voting procedures. After a roll call establishing that a quorum of at
least five corporate members are physically present, the Mayor shall call for a
motion, that a Council member may be permitted to participate electronically
after specifying the reason entitling the absent member to participate
electronically. All of the Council members physically present are permitted to
vote on whether electronic attendance will be allowed. The motion must be
approved by at least five members of the corporate authority that are
physically present.
   (D)   Adequate equipment requirement. The Council member participating
electronically, and all other members of the Council must be able to
communicate effectively, and members of the audience attending the meeting must
be able to hear all communications. Before approving electronic attendance at
any meeting, the City Council shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish
this objective.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member participating electronically shall be considered
an off-site participant and counted as present electronically for that meeting
if the member is allowed to participate. The meeting minutes shall also reflect
and state specifically whether each member is physically present or by
electronic means.
   (F)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to participate
electronically will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting
and participate in the same capacity as those members physically present,
subject to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the City Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A
member participating electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the
case of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce
his or her leaving and returning.
(Res. 2020-06, passed 3-16-2020)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND OTHER WORKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Application of subchapter provisions
   
32.002   Appointments
   
32.003   Term of office
   
32.004   Officer responsible for day-to-day operation of city
   
32.005   Vacancies
   
32.006   Duty to turn money received over to city
   
32.007   Oath
   
32.008   Salaries
   
32.009   Assignment to duties
   
32.010   Records
   
32.011   Bond
   
32.012   Delivery of books, records and the like to successor
   
32.013   Impersonation of officer
   
32.014   Interference with officers
   
32.015   Inspections by city officers
   
32.016   Nepotism
   
32.017   Travel expense policy
The Mayor
   
32.030   Election
   
32.031   General duties
   
32.032   Appointment of officers generally
   
32.033   Specific appointive powers
   
32.034   Designation of officers’ duties
   
32.035   Mayor Pro Tem
   
32.036   Acting Mayor
   
32.037   Responsibilities at receptions and the like
   
32.038   Bond
   
32.039   Assistant to the Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner
The City Clerk
   
32.050   Election; term
   
32.051   Compensation
   
32.052   Bond
   
32.053   Duty to seal, attest documents
   
32.054   Duty to turn money over to City Treasurer
   
32.055   Duty to keep accounts
   
32.056   Records
   
32.057   Custodian of city seal; use
   
32.058   Custodian of documents
   
32.059   Duty to keep indexes to documents
   
32.060   Ex officio comptroller
   
32.061   Duties relating to committees and meetings
   
32.062   Additional duties
   
32.063   Vacancy
   
32.064   Appointment of Deputy Clerk
The City Treasurer
   
32.080   Election; term
   
32.081   Compensation
   
32.082   Bond
   
32.083   General duties of City Treasurer
   
32.084   Monthly accounts; warrants; vouchers; register
   
32.085   Permitted investments
   
32.086   Deposit of funds; qualification of depository
   
32.087   Transfer of funds to new depository
   
32.088   Personal use of funds
   
32.089   Duty to attend Council meetings; assist Council
   
32.090   Duty to keep records
   
32.091   Auditing computer process
   
32.092   Monthly, annual reports
   
32.093   Payment of bills
   
32.094   Custody of City Clerk’s bond
   
32.095   Deputy Treasurer
The City Attorney
   
32.110   Office created; appointment
   
32.111   Duty to give city legal advice and opinions
   
32.112   Duty to prosecute and defend suits
   
32.113   Duty to enforce judgments
   
32.114   Special assessments; condemnations
   
32.115   Drafting ordinances and documents
   
32.116   Employment of additional counsel
Other Appointed City Personnel
   
32.125   Director of Public Works
   
32.126   Freedom of Information Act Officer
   
32.127   Building Inspector
   
32.128   City Administrator
   
32.129   Economic Development and Tourism Coordinator
   
32.130   Community Service Officer/Animal Control Officer
Prevailing Wage Act
   
32.145   Prevailing wages
Statutory reference:
   City Attorney, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5
   City Treasurer, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35-40 et seq.
   Mayor, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10
   Mayor pro tem, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-35
   Officers and employees, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-4-1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all officers and employees
of the city, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or position
or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
(1986 Code, § 2-21)
§ 32.002 APPOINTMENTS.
   All officers other than elective officers shall be appointed by the Mayor by
and with the consent of the City Council as is provided by state law. All
employees shall, in the absence of any provisions to the contrary, be appointed
or selected by the Mayor.
(1986 Code, § 2-22)
§ 32.003 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Every appointive officer of the city shall hold office until May 1
following his or her appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (B)   An officer may be removed by the Mayor, prior to the expiration of his
or her term, with the consent of the City Council; this shall not apply to
members of boards or commissions.
(1986 Code, § 2-23) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 32.004 OFFICER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAY-TO-DAY OPERATION OF CITY.
   The providing of city services on a continuing basis shall be the
responsibility of the City Clerk, City Administrator, Police Chief, Director of
Public Works and their respective staffs, subject to §
32.034.
(1986 Code, § 2-24) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-
2007; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6- 2012)
§ 32.005 VACANCIES.
   When a vacancy occurs in any appointive office of the city, it shall be
filled in the same manner in which original appointments or selections are
made, in the absence of provisions in this code or other ordinances to the
contrary.
(1986 Code, § 2-25)
§ 32.006 DUTY TO TURN MONEY RECEIVED OVER TO CITY.
   Every officer of the city shall at least once each month turn over all money
received by him or her in his or her official capacity to the City Treasurer
with a statement showing the source from which the money was received.
(1986 Code, § 2-26)
§ 32.007 OATH.
   Every officer of the city shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
take the oath prescribed by state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-27)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25
§ 32.008 SALARIES.
   All officers and employees of the city shall receive such salary as may from
time to time be provided by ordinance or resolution of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-28)
§ 32.009 ASSIGNMENT TO DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall have the power to assign to any appointive officer any duty
which is not assigned by this code or other ordinance to some other specific
officer, and shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective
powers or duties of officers.
(1986 Code, § 2-29)
§ 32.010 RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officer of the city shall be open to inspection by
the Mayor or any member of the City Council at all reasonable times, whether or
not the records are required to be kept by statute, this code or other
ordinance of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-30)
§ 32.011 BOND.
   (A)   Every officer other than an Alderman shall, before entering upon the
duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount and with such sureties
as may be determined by the Mayor and City Council, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and the payment of all
money received by him or her.
   (B)   Every employee shall, if required by the City Council, before entering
upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount as may be
determined by the City Council, conditional upon the faithful performance of
the duties of his or her position and the payment of all money received by him
or her.
   (C)   All bonds, except the bond of the City Clerk, shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
   (D)   (1)   Bonds shall be required for all appointed city officials, and
other city employees as required by the Mayor and City Council, including:
         (a)   City Administrator;
         (b)   Chief of Police;
         (c)   (Reserved);
         (d)   Director of Public Works;
         (e)   City Attorney;
         (f)   Coordinator of Emergency Services and Disaster Assistance;
         (g)   All members of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
         (h)   All members of the Planning Commission;
         (i)   All members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners;
         (j)   All members of the Police Pension Fund;
         (k)   All building inspectors of the city; and
         (l)   All members of the Police Department.
      (2)   The above bonds shall be in addition to any other bonds required by
law or by the Mayor and City Council.
   (E)   The form of the bond to be executed by all appointed municipal
officers of the city shall be as follows.
   BOND OF APPOINTED MUNICIPAL OFFICER OF THE CITY OF TROY, ILLINOIS
   I, (name) , who have been appointed to the municipal office of  (title of
office)  for the City of Troy, Illinois, bind myself to the people of the City
of Troy, Illinois, that I will discharge faithfully the duties of that
appointed municipal office, and that I will promptly pay over to the City of
Troy, Illinois, all money that I receive for the City of Troy, Illinois, while
I occupy that appointed municipal office.
   The obligation of this bond is limited to one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Dated this ____ day of ________________, 20___.
                                                
                  NAME
                                                
                  TITLE OF OFFICE
STATE OF ILLINOIS    )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF MADISON    )
   I,_________________, a notary public in and for the County of Madison and
the State of Illinois, hereby certify that ________________, known to me to be
the same person whose name is subscribed to the foregoing document, appeared
before me this day in person and acknowledged that he or she signed the
foregoing document as his or her free and voluntary act for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
   Given under my hand and notarial seal this ____ day of ____________, 20___.
                                                               
                                 NOTARY PUBLIC
My commission expires:___________.
   (F)   The bond of each appointed municipal officer of the city shall be for
the penal sum of $100.
   (G)   No security is required on any bond executed by an appointed municipal
officer of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-31) (Ord. 1985-15, passed 6-3-1985; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-
1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-2007; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25
§ 32.012 DELIVERY OF BOOKS, RECORDS AND THE LIKE TO SUCCESSOR.
   Every officer and employee of the city, upon the expiration of his or her
term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books
and records which may be the property of the city, and if no successor has been
appointed within one week after the termination of office, the property shall
be delivered to the City Clerk or City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 2-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-35
§ 32.013 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate, without lawful
authority, any city officer or employee.
(1986 Code, § 2-33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.014 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of
the city while engaged in his or her duties of his or her office or employment.
(1986 Code, § 2-34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.015 INSPECTIONS BY CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the city who is authorized to enforce this
code or other ordinances of the city may make such inspections as may be
necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions.
   (B)   Whenever an officer or employee of the city shall have reason to
believe that there exists on or in any premises in the city any nuisance
dangerous to public health, any fire hazard, any structural defect likely to
result in injury to person or property, or any electric wiring or equipment in
such condition as to present a fire hazard or danger to persons, he or she
shall ask permission of the owner, custodian or occupant of the premises to
inspect the same. Each occupant or owner shall permit such inspection at any
reasonable time. Any owner or occupant who refuses to permit the inspection
shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(1986 Code, § 2-35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.016 NEPOTISM.
   There shall be disqualified for full-time or part-time compensated
employment by the city any person who is related to any then elected or
appointed and serving city official, and to the degree of relationship of
immediate family, brothers, sisters, parents, aunts, uncles, first cousins,
nephews, nieces, grandchildren or stepchildren.
(1986 Code, § 2-36) (Ord. 1981-14, passed 8-3-1981)
§ 32.017 TRAVEL EXPENSE POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. The words TRAVEL and ENTERTAINMENT as used herein shall
have the same meanings as set forth in the Local Government Travel Expense
Control Act (Public Act 099- 0604), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Maximum reimbursement. Starting on January 1, 2017, the city shall
only reimburse expenses for travel, meals and lodging up to $5,000 per
individual per year. Only travel, meals and lodging directly related to the
city’s business are reimbursable.
   (C)   Reimbursement. By January 1, 2017, the city shall create a
standardized form for reimbursing individuals for travel, meals and lodging
that will include, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals, or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
      (2)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal, or lodging expense;
      (3)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal or lodging expense; and
      (4)   The dates or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal or lodging expense was or will be expended.
   (D)   Standardized form. Starting on January 1, 2017, all employees,
officers, and members of the City Council of the city shall fill out the
standardized form described in division (C) for all travel, meals, or lodging
that shall be reimbursed.
   (E)   Exceeding maximum reimbursement. After March 1, 2017, expenses for
travel, meals, and lodging of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
allowed under division (B) hereof, may only be approved by roll call vote at an
open meeting of the City Council for the city.
   (F)   Alderman expenses. After March 1, 2017, expenses for travel, meals,
and lodging of any alderman or Mayor may only be approved by roll call vote at
an open meeting of the City Council for the city.
   (G)   Exclusions. The city shall not reimburse any employee, officer or
member of the City Council for any entertainment expense.
(Res. 2016-29, passed 12-19-2016)
THE MAYOR
§ 32.030 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term, and shall serve until his
or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-51)
Cross-reference:
   Compensation, see § 31.32
§ 32.031 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, and shall
preside over the meetings of the City Council, and perform such duties as may
be required of him or her by this code, other ordinance or state law. He or she
shall have supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the
city, and shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records
pertaining to city affairs, which are kept by any officer or employee of the
city, at any reasonable time.
(1986 Code, § 2-52)
§ 32.032 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS GENERALLY.
   The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City
Council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
(1986 Code, § 2-53)
§ 32.033 SPECIFIC APPOINTIVE POWERS.
   The Mayor shall:
   (A)   Issue police commissions;
   (B)   Establish standing committees;
   (C)   Appoint members of the Council to standing committees;
   (D)   Appoint ad hoc committees; and
   (E)   Make the following appointments for longer than 30 days, with the
advice and consent of City Council, by a majority of those present and voting:
      (1)   City Attorney;
      (2)   City Administrator;
      (3)   Police Chief;
      (4)   Coordinator of Emergency Services and Disaster Assistance;
      (5)   Planning Commission;
      (6)   Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (7)   Police Pension Fund Board;
      (8)   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners;
      (9)   Other boards and commissions;
      (10)   School crossing guards;
      (11)   City Engineer (optional); and
      (12)   Economic Development and Tourism Coordinator.
(1986 Code, § 2-54) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 1998-24, passed 8-17-
1998)
§ 32.034 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointive officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor
after consultation with the City Attorney. The Mayor shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1986 Code, § 2-55)
§ 32.035 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Mayor Pro Tem, an executive
office of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
   (C)   The term of the appointment shall be for one year from May 1 to April
30.
(1986 Code, § 2-56) (Ord. 1999-39, passed 12-20-1999; Ord. 2003-10, passed 5-
19-2003)
§ 32.036 ACTING MAYOR.
   In the event of a vacancy in the Office of Mayor, the City Council may
appoint one of its members as acting Mayor to serve until the vacancy is filled
at a regular or special election as provided by law.
(1986 Code, § 2-57)
§ 32.037 RESPONSIBILITIES AT RECEPTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions. In the absence or inability of the Mayor to attend any such
function, the Council may select any other city officer to so act.
(1986 Code, § 2-58)
§ 32.038 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her or her office, the Mayor shall
execute a bond in any amount and with any sureties as may be required by the
City Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or
her office and the payment of all money received by him or her; provided the
amount of the bond shall not be less than $3,000.
(1986 Code, § 2-59)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30
§ 32.039 ASSISTANT TO THE MAYOR AS LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Assistant to the Mayor as
Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor with the advice and consent of the corporate authorities
shall appoint the Assistant to the Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner
of the city.
   (C)   The appointment shall be an annual appointment for one year from May 1
to April 30.
   (D)   The Assistant to the Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall
receive a $0.75 hourly premium that will be added to the employee’s base pay.
   (E)   The assistant to the Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the
city shall have all the powers and duties provided to him or her as directed by
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the State Liquor Control Act, being
ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.
(1986 Code, § 2-60) (Ord. 2004-27, passed 10-18-2004; Ord. 2024-22, passed 5-6-
2024)
THE CITY CLERK
§ 32.050 ELECTION; TERM.
   The City Clerk shall be elected and serve for a four-year term and until his
or her successor is elected and qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2-111)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-15-5, 3.1-15-10, 3.1-15-
15 and 3.1-20-5
§ 32.051 COMPENSATION.
   The City Clerk shall receive as his or her compensation for the performance
of his or her duties the amount of $20,000 annually for the 12-month period
beginning May 1, 2025 and in subsequent years beginning on May 1 and ending on
April 30, unless changed by amendment to this section. The City Clerk's salary
shall be paid to the City Clerk in 12 equal monthly installments.
(1986 Code, § 2-111.1) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 1-27-1985; Ord. 1989-04, passed 1-
24-1989; Ord. 1993-04, passed 1-18-1993; Ord. 1996-32, passed 10-7-1996; Ord.
2000-25, passed 10-23-2000; Ord. 2004-23, passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 2008-19, passed
10-9-2008; Ord. 2012-18, passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 2016-27, passed 9-19-2016; Ord.
2020-19, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 2024-37, passed 6-17-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch.40, Act 5, § 7-101
§ 32.052 BOND.
   Before entering upon his or her duties of office, the City Clerk shall
execute a bond in such amount as is provided by statute, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his or her duties. The City Clerk shall file his or her
bond with the City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 2-112)
§ 32.053 DUTY TO SEAL, ATTEST DOCUMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the city and all
licenses, permits and any other documents that shall require this formality.
(1986 Code, § 2-113)
§ 32.054 DUTY TO TURN MONEY OVER TO CITY TREASURER.
   The City Clerk shall turn over all money received by him or her on behalf of
the city to the City Treasurer promptly upon receipt of the same together with
a statement as to the source thereof.
(1986 Code, § 2-114)
§ 32.055 DUTY TO KEEP ACCOUNTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by him or her
and the source and disposition thereof and any other accounts as may be
required by this code, other ordinance or state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-115)
§ 32.056 RECORDS.
   In addition to the record of ordinances and other records which the City
Clerk is required by state law to keep, he or she shall keep a register of all
licenses and permits issued and the payments thereof. The City Clerk shall also
keep a record showing all of the officers and regular employees of the city,
and other records as may be required by the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-116)
§ 32.057 CUSTODIAN OF CITY SEAL; USE.
   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and shall affix its
impression on documents whenever required.
(1986 Code, § 2-117)
Cross-reference:
   City seal, see
Ch. 11
§ 32.058 CUSTODIAN OF DOCUMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging to the city
which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(1986 Code, § 2-118)
§ 32.059 DUTY TO KEEP INDEXES TO DOCUMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and
records kept by him or her, so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be
had.
(1986 Code, § 2-119)
§ 32.060 EX OFFICIO COMPTROLLER.
   The City Clerk shall act as and perform all duties of comptroller unless and
until a separate comptroller is appointed. In his or her ex officio role as
comptroller, the City Clerk (on or before May 15 of each year, and before the
annual appropriation ordinance is prepared by the City Council) shall submit to
the City Council a report of his or her estimate, as nearly as may be, of the
money necessary to defray the expenses of the city during the current fiscal
year.
(1986 Code, § 2-120)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-115
§ 32.061 DUTIES RELATING TO COMMITTEES AND MEETINGS.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (A)   Notify the members of the City Council and the standing committees of
meetings and display schedules on the City Hall window;
   (B)   Take minutes of regular and special Council meetings. He or she shall
provide copies of the minutes to members of the City Council at least three
days before the next regular meeting. After reading and approval of the minutes
he or she shall send to a newspaper, published in the county, copies thereof so
that they can be published in the next issue;
   (C)   Follow up with committee chairpersons so that committee minutes are
filed and distributed as needed;
   (D)   Provide an agenda of matters to come before the City Council not less
than three days prior to the next regular or special meeting. This agenda along
with the newest approved minutes are to be displayed in a prominent position at
City Hall;
   (E)   Maintain a record of closed meeting minutes; and
   (F)   Perform other administrative tasks as assigned by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-121)
§ 32.062 ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the duties provided for in this subchapter, the City Clerk
shall perform any other duties and functions as may be required by this code,
other ordinances or state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-122)
§ 32.063 VACANCY.
   If the office of City Clerk shall become vacant for any reason the Mayor and
City Council shall appoint a successor as provided by statute.
(1986 Code, § 2-123)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-5
§ 32.064 APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY CLERK.
   The City Clerk is authorized to appoint a Deputy Clerk of the city. The
Clerk is directed to notify the City Council of the appointment of a Deputy
Clerk and to issue appropriate credentials evidencing the appointment to the
occupant of that office. It is the legislative intent of the City Council for
an Administrative Clerk to be provided by the city administration for the
purposes of the preparation of materials to assist the City Clerk in his or her
duties. This Administrative Clerk may or may not be the Deputy Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 2-154) (Ord. 1998-22, passed 7-6-1998; Ord. 2020-19, passed 9-8-
2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10(b)
THE CITY TREASURER
§ 32.080 ELECTION; TERM.
   The City Treasurer shall be elected and serve for a four-year term and until
his or her successor is qualified, as provided by state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-136)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-15-10, 3.1-20-5
§ 32.081 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive as his or her compensation for the
performance of his or her duties the amount of $7,500 annually for the 12-month
period beginning May 1, 2021 through April 30, 2022. Thereafter, the
compensation paid to the City Treasurer for the performance of his or her
duties shall remain the same, without any annual increments, for the periods of
May 1, 2022 through April 30, 2023; May 1, 2023 through April 30, 2024; and May
1, 2024 through April 30, 2025. The City Treasurer's salary shall be paid to
the City Treasurer in 12 equal monthly installments.
   (B)   The City Deputy Treasurer, if a current city employee, shall receive a
$0.75 premium per hour, which will be added to the employee's base pay.
(1986 Code, § 2-136.1) (Ord. 1985-2, passed 1-27-1985; Ord. 1989-05, passed 1-
16-1989; Ord. 1993-03, passed 1-18-1993; Ord. 1996-32, passed 10-7-1996; Ord.
2000-25, passed 10-23-2000; Ord. 2004-23, passed 9-7-2004; Ord. 2008-19, passed
10-9-2008; Ord. 2012-19, passed 9-17-2012; Ord. 2016-27, passed 9-19-2016; Ord.
2020-19, passed 9-8-2020; Ord. 2023-18, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 32.082 BOND.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, the City
Treasurer shall execute a bond with security, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of his or her office and the payment of all money
received by him or her. The bond shall indemnify the city for any loss due to
neglect of duty or wrongful act on the City Treasurer’s part.
   (B)   The amount of the bond shall be not less than the greatest of the
following three amounts:
      (1)   Ten percent of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments
received by the City Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five
fiscal years;
      (2)   One and one-half times the largest amount which the city estimates
will be in his or her custody at any one time; and
      (3)   Three times the latest federal census population or any subsequent
census figure used for motor fuel tax purposes. The bond shall be filed with
the City Clerk as required by state law.
(1986 Code, § 2-137)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30
§ 32.083 GENERAL DUTIES OF CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the city, and
shall keep his or her books and accounts in the manner prescribed by ordinance.
These books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection of any
member of the City Council.
   (B)   He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation,
and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (C)   He or she shall give every person paying money into the treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what account paid.
He or she shall file copies of these receipts with the City Clerk, with his or
her monthly reports. If he or she has in his or her possession money properly
appropriated to the payment of any warrant lawfully drawn upon him or her, he
or she shall pay the money specified in this warrant to the person designated
by the warrant.
(1986 Code, § 2-138)
§ 32.084 MONTHLY ACCOUNTS; WARRANTS; VOUCHERS; REGISTER.
   At the end of every month, and more often if required by the City Council,
the City Treasurer shall render an account under oath or affirmation to the
City Council, or to any officer as may be designated by ordinance, showing the
state of the treasury at the date of the account, and the balance of money in
the treasury. He or she shall accompany the account with a statement of all
money received into the treasury, and on what account, together with all
warrants redeemed and paid by him or her. On the day he or she renders an
account, these warrants, with all vouchers held by him or her, shall be
delivered to the City Clerk and filed, together with the account, in the
Clerk’s office. He or she shall return all warrants paid by him or her marked
“paid.” He or she shall keep a register of all warrants, which shall describe
each warrant, showing its date, amount and number, the fund from which paid,
the name of the person to whom paid, and when paid.
(1986 Code, § 2-139)
§ 32.085 PERMITTED INVESTMENTS.
   The City Treasurer may invest the city’s funds only in those investments
permitted by ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 2, as now or hereafter amended. The City
Treasurer shall not make any investments in banks which are not insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, nor shall he or she make any investments
in the shares or investment certificates of savings and loan associations which
are not insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
(1986 Code, § 2-140.1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 2
§ 32.086 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS; QUALIFICATION OF DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall not deposit the city’s funds in a bank until
that bank has furnished the City Council with copies of the last two sworn
statements of resources and liabilities which the bank is required to furnish
to the Commissioner of Banks and Trust Companies or to the Comptroller of the
Currency. The City Treasurer shall require that bank, while he or she maintains
deposits of the city’s funds in the bank, to furnish the City Council with a
copy of all statements of resources and liabilities which that bank is required
to furnish to the Commissioner of Banks and Trust Companies or to the
Comptroller of the Currency. The City Treasurer shall not allow that portion of
the city’s deposits in a bank, which portion is not collateralized or insured
by an agency of the federal government, to exceed 75% of the capital stock and
surplus of the bank.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall not deposit the city’s funds in a savings and
loan association until that savings and loan association has furnished the City
Council with copies of the last two sworn statements of resources and
liabilities which the savings and loan association is required to furnish to
the Commissioner of Savings and Loan Associations or the Federal Home Loan
Bank. The City Treasurer shall require that savings and loan association, while
he or she maintains deposits of the city’s funds in the savings and loan
association, to furnish the City Council with a copy of all statements of
resources and liabilities which that savings and loan association is required
to furnish to the Commissioner of Savings and Loan Associations or the Federal
Home Loan Bank. The City Treasurer shall not allow that portion of the city’s
deposits in a savings and loan association, which portion is not collateralized
or insured by an agency of the federal government, to exceed 75% of the net
worth of the savings and loan association as defined by the Federal Savings and
Loan Insurance Corporation.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall not deposit the city’s funds in a credit
union until that credit union has furnished the City Council with copies of the
last two reports of examination prepared by or submitted to the State
Department of Financial Institutions or the National Credit Union
Administration. The City Treasurer shall require that credit union, while he or
she maintains deposits of the city’s funds in the credit union, to furnish the
City Council with a copy of all reports of examination prepared by or furnished
to the State Department of Financial Institutions or the National Credit Union
Administration. The City Treasurer shall not allow that portion of the city’s
deposits in a credit union, which portion is not collateralized or insured by
an agency of the federal government or other approved share insurer, to exceed
50% of the unimpaired capital and surplus of such credit union, which shall
include shares, reserves and undivided earnings.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall, whenever possible, deposit the city’s funds
only in financial institutions which will enter into a written security
agreement with the city to the effect that any portion of the city’s deposits
which are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation, or the National Credit Union
Administration or other approved share insurer, shall be collateralized by
securities or mortgages in an amount equal to at least the market value of the
uninsured portion of the city’s deposits.
(1986 Code, § 2-140.2)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 30, Act 235, § 6
§ 32.087 TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO NEW DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   When the City Council designates a new depository for the city’s
funds, the City Treasurer shall assist the City Council in notifying the
sureties on the bond of the City Treasurer of the impending transfer of the
city’s funds at least five days before the transfer of funds.
   (B)   When the City Council has withdrawn its designation of a financial
institution as a depository of the city’s funds, the City Treasurer shall
remove the city’s fund from that financial institution no later than ten days
after a new depository is designated and has qualified by furnishing to the
City Council copies of its two most recent statements of resources and
liabilities.
(1986 Code, § 2-140.3)
§ 32.088 PERSONAL USE OF FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city in his or her
custody separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she shall
not use, either directly or indirectly, the city’s money or warrants in his or
her custody for his or her own use and benefit, or that of any other person.
Any violation of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal
from office by the City Council, which may declare the Treasurer’s office
vacant. In that case his or her successor shall be appointed, and he or she
shall hold his or her office for the remainder of the unexpired term of the
Treasurer so removed.
(1986 Code, § 2-141) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.089 DUTY TO ATTEND COUNCIL MEETINGS; ASSIST COUNCIL.
   The City Treasurer shall be present at all regular meetings of the City
Council, either in person or by his or her representative, and shall advise and
assist the City Council in matters of finance and spending.
(1986 Code, § 2-142)
§ 32.090 DUTY TO KEEP RECORDS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep records showing all money received by him or
her, the source from which it was received, and the purpose for which it was
paid out. The City Treasurer shall keep a record showing at all times the
financial status of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-143)
§ 32.091 AUDITING COMPUTER PROCESS.
   The City Treasurer shall periodically audit check the city’s fiscal computer
processes.
(1986 Code, § 2-144)
§ 32.092 MONTHLY, ANNUAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Mayor and City
Council, showing the state of finances of the city, and the amounts received
and spent during the month, which reports shall be kept on file.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall make an annual report after the close of the
fiscal year, as required by statute, with the total amount of all receipts and
expenditures of the city and his or her transactions as City Treasurer during
the preceding year.
   (C)   Before September 1 of each year, the City Treasurer shall file with
each town or county collector of taxes, who collects taxes levied by the city,
a copy of the annual report which he or she has filed with the City Clerk,
together with an affidavit of the City Clerk that the copy is a true and
correct copy of the annual report filed with him or her, that it was published
as required by statute, the date of the filing and publication, and the
newspaper in which it was published.
(1986 Code, § 2-145)
§ 32.093 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   The City Treasurer shall pay out money in payment of bills, salaries or for
any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or interest on bonds
or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrant signed by the Mayor and the City
Clerk as provided by statute. The warrants shall designate the items to be paid
and the funds from which they are to be paid.
(1986 Code, § 2-146)
§ 32.094 CUSTODY OF CITY CLERK’S BOND.
   The City Treasurer shall receive and keep the bond of the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 2-147)
§ 32.095 DEPUTY TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Deputy Treasurer of the city.
   (B)   The Treasurer, with the advice and consent of the corporate
authorities, shall appoint the Deputy Treasurer.
   (C)   The term of the appointment shall be for one year, from May 1 to April
30.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall be held responsible, severally, for the fidelity
of all persons appointed by the Treasurer to serve as Deputy Treasurer.
   (E)   The Deputy Treasurer shall be a municipal officer and shall comply
with all bonding requirements of the state and the statutory duties set forth
in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,§§ 3.1-35-40 through 3.1-35-85, as amended from time to
time.
(1986 Code, § 2-148) (Ord. 2002-27, passed 10-21-2002)
THE CITY ATTORNEY
§ 32.110 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Office of City Attorney, an executive office of
the city. The city attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-161)
§ 32.111 DUTY TO GIVE CITY LEGAL ADVICE AND OPINIONS.
   The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever requested to do so
by any city official. Upon request by the Mayor or City Council the City
Attorney shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
(1986 Code, § 2-162)
§ 32.112 DUTY TO PROSECUTE AND DEFEND SUITS.
   The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at
law or equity to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the city, on
behalf of the city, or in the capacity of that person as an officer of the
city.
(1986 Code, § 2-163)
§ 32.113 DUTY TO ENFORCE JUDGMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to see to the full enforcement of
all judgments, decrees and similar interlocutory orders rendered or entered in
favor of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-164)
§ 32.114 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; CONDEMNATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to see to the completion of all
special assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings.
(1986 Code, § 2-165)
§ 32.115 DRAFTING ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to draft or supervise the
phraseology of any contract, lease or other document or instrument to which the
city may be a party; and upon request by the City Council to draft ordinances
or resolutions covering any subjects within the power of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-166)
§ 32.116 EMPLOYMENT OF ADDITIONAL COUNSEL.
   The Mayor and City Council may retain or authorize the employment of other
counsel to give advice or render service to the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-167)
OTHER APPOINTED CITY PERSONNEL
§ 32.125 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   There is hereby created the position of Director of Public Works, an
executive position of the city. The Director of Public Works shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council annually at or
near the beginning of the fiscal year. The Director of Public Works shall be
responsible for the supervision and management of the Water and Sewer
Department, the Street Department, all public works projects and such other
duties presented by the Mayor and the City Council. The Director of Public
Works shall possess and maintain the qualifications and credentials required by
law and the city. The Director of Public Works shall be responsible for
planning, organizing, directing, managing, supervising and coordinating the
activities of the Public Works Department consisting of the Water and Sewer
Department and the Street Department. The Director of Public Works shall report
to the City Administrator. The Director of Public Works shall attend all City
Council meetings and other meetings as requested by the Mayor or the City
Administrator or as necessary to perform the duties and responsibilities of the
position. Any references to Street Superintendent, Water and Sewer
Superintendent, Superintendent of Public Works and Utility Superintendent in
the Code of Ordinances shall hereinafter be interpreted to refer to the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
(1986 Code, § 2-37) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-
2007; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6- 2012)
§ 32.126 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Freedom of Information Act
(FOIA) Officer of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor with the advice and consent of the corporate authorities
shall appoint a FOIA Officer. The Mayor may appoint more than one FOIA Officer.
   (C)   Appointments shall be annual appointments for one year from May 1 to
April 30.
   (D)   FOIA Officers shall receive a $0.75 hourly premium that will be added
to the employee’s base pay.
(Ord. 2024-22, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 32.127 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There is created the position of Building Inspector. This employee shall be
subject to provisions regarding city employees. The Building Inspector shall be
responsible for administering the building codes, zoning codes, property
maintenance codes and such other duties presented by the Mayor and City
Council. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, any reference within
this code or ICC type codes to a “zoning administrator” or “code administrator”
shall be a reference to the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector shall
supervise the other employees involved in the administration of such codes,
rules and regulations. The Building Inspector shall possess and maintain the
qualifications and credentials required by law. The Building Inspector shall
report to the City Administrator.
(1986 Code, § 2-37.2) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 32.128 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Administrator who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of City Council.
   (B)   The Administrator of the city shall be responsible for but not limited
to the following duties and to keep the Mayor and Board of Aldermen informed,
as well as the appropriate committees:
      (1)   Budget:
         (a)   Preparation of annual budget. Prior to the preparation of the
preliminary budget the Administrator shall contact the Mayor, each Chairperson
of a City Council committee, the Treasurer and each department head requesting
that they submit information or requests relating to the budget. After the
preliminary budget is prepared, a copy shall be forwarded to each of the above
individuals for an opportunity for further comment. This is not a limitation
upon the authority of the City Council to amend or adopt the budget;
         (b)   Prepare monthly report for Mayor, Finance Committee and
Treasurer comparing budgeted revenue and expenses versus actual revenue and
expenses; and
         (c)   Provide monthly comparison of Water and Sewer Department
collection versus amount billed to the Mayor, Finance Committee and Treasurer.
      (2)   Centralize purchasing, including all capital outlay;
      (3)   Building and Zoning Department; also, act as liaison between the
Planning Commission, Engineer and Land Use Committee;
      (4)   Water and Sewer Department, Street Department and Emergency
Services and Disaster Assistance Agency, and supervise the superintendents,
directors and employees of those departments;
      (5)   Authorized agent for IMRF;
      (6)   Insurance:
         (a)   Negotiation of medical and liability insurance and presenting to
administrative committee; and
         (b)   Acting as liaison between insurance carrier and all city needs.
      (7)   Act as liaison between prospective businesses and Economic
Development Committee;
      (8)   Grants and revolving loan coordinator;
      (9)   Develop a capital improvement plan for the future and prioritize as
to their urgency;
      (10)   Payroll overseer; and
      (11)   Preparation of annual and other reports to Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-38) (Ord. 1991-02, passed 2-4-1991; Ord. 1994-29, passed 9-19-
1994; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 32.129 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND TOURISM COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint an Economic
Development and Tourism Coordinator of the city. The Mayor shall notify the
City Council of the appointment, and shall issue appropriate credentials
evidencing the appointment to the Coordinator. This office shall be a part-time
position.
(1986 Code, § 2-300)
   (B)   Responsibilities. The Economic Development and Tourism Coordinator
will serve as the coordinator and manager of an office within the government of
the city that will be responsible for marketing the city and developing sources
of funds for economic and community development for the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-301)
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the Coordinator shall include the following:
      (1)   Plan long-range goals, objectives and strategies for the Office of
Economic Development and Tourism;
      (2)   Conduct strategic economic development planning and economic and
fiscal impact analysis;
      (3)   Plan and implement short-term or annual goals, objectives and
strategies for the Department, project or program to ensure efficient
organization and completion of work;
      (4)   Serve as liaison with public, private and nonprofit organizations
for business attraction, creation, expansion and retention activities;
      (5)   Negotiate, implement and monitor development agreements for
commercial, industrial and residential projects;
      (6)   Represent the city at various functions, such as making speeches at
civic and business associations, meeting with influential persons within the
community, developers, officials, citizens and representatives of the press, to
establish goodwill and resolve/respond to office-related issues;
      (7)   Advise city officials and citizen groups on matters relating to
area economic development issues;
      (8)   Maintain a network of communication with the Department of Public
Affairs, the city hotel/motel community, city area tourism attractions, state
tourism related agencies, local, state, regional and national industry
organizations that impact the city hospitality/tourism industry;
      (9)   Design and implement an annual marketing plan for the city;
      (10)   Develop and supervise a tourism awareness program designed to
reach the general public, elected officials, members and employees of the local
hospitality/tourism industry;
      (11)   Develop, research and maintain a comprehensive data of the local,
state and national tourism industry;
      (12)   Develop and recommend an operating budget for the office and
monitor and administer the approved budget;
      (13)   Perform financial oversight for economic development financing
programs, including: capital improvement program projects, business development
fund, enterprise zone, private activity bonds and tax increment financing
districts;
      (14)   Develop, communicate and monitor policies, procedures and
standards for the Department; and recommend improvement when necessary;
      (15)   Perform all duties as assigned by the Mayor and the city
administration;
      (16)   Perform all duties as directed by the City Council; and
      (17)   Any other duties as may be assigned to the officer by law or
ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 2-302)
   (D)   Accountability. The Coordinator shall be held accountable for the
following:
      (1)   Providing periodic written and oral reports on office programs and
participating actively by membership, committee participation and volunteer
work in organizations that impact the tourism industry; and
      (2)   Designing and monitoring devices for evaluating the progress of the
programs of work and the success of the office’s marketing and economic
development programs.
(1986 Code, § 2-303) (Ord. 1998-24, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 32.130 COMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICER/ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Established.
      (1)   A new employee position of Community Service Officer/Animal Control
Officer is hereby established.
      (2)   The number of such positions, the compensation and the number of
scheduled working hours shall be established by the corporate authorities from
time to time.
      (3)   The person or persons hired to this position shall report to the
Code Official and Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 2-305)
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   High school graduate or GED equivalent (minimum);
      (2)   Ability to read, write and speak English language;
      (3)   Ability to compose letters and to articulate;
      (4)   Possess a valid Illinois driver’s license and have the ability to
operate a motor vehicle;
      (5)   Ability to react quickly and calmly in emergencies and to deal
effectively with the public;
      (6)   Ability and willingness to understand and carry out oral and
written instructions;
      (7)   Be able to pass a police background check - no felony convictions;
      (8)   Furnish hiring officials with adequate recommendations, educational
credentials and health documents;
      (9)   Good physical and mental health and willingness to submit at any
time to health, drug and mental examination if requested by superiors and/or
hiring officials;
      (10)   Successfully complete any initial training program or other up-to-
date training programs as required by the Chief of Police or the Code Official;
and
      (11)   Must be at least 21 years of age.
(1986 Code, § 2-306)
   (C)   Duties. The duties of the Community Services Officer/Animal Control
Officer shall be as follows.
      (1)    Parking and traffic control:
         (a)   Enforcement of any and all ordinances and statutes relative to
parking regulations within those areas of the city as assigned by the Chief of
Police or his or her designate;
         (b)   Reporting to appropriate authorities the maintenance and repair
needs at any parking or other traffic-control signs/devices or marking within
the assigned enforcement area;
         (c)   School and grade crossing guard duties as may be assigned by the
Chief of Police; and
         (d)   Traffic direction and/or control whenever necessary due to the
limited availability of sworn personnel, including the receipt of reports
concerning minor motor vehicle accidents.
      (2)   Administrative and enforcement of certain general offense
provisions:
         (a)   Any and all ordinances and statutes pertaining to property
maintenance or management, including but not limited to monitoring high weeds
and high grass conditions, trash container placement and removal of refuse and
debris;
         (b)   Ordinances and statutes pertaining to animals;
         (c)   Ordinances and statutes pertaining to billposting;
         (d)   Ordinances and statutes relative to safety, sanitation and
health, snow removal and vegetation growth; and
         (e)   Ordinance and statutes pertaining to littering.
      (3)   Enforcement of certain ordinances pertaining to business
regulations and taxation, provided same is done with the approval of the Chief
of Police or Code Official and, whenever necessary, in connection with other
officials:
         (a)   Inspections of business premises and operations to ensure
compliance with licensing requirements; and
         (b)   The provisions of ordinances pertaining to peddlers and
solicitors and transient merchants.
      (4)   Enforcement of certain provisions pertaining to the streets and
utilities, provided same is done with the approval of the Chief of Police or
Code Official and, whenever necessary, in cooperation with other officials:
         (a)   Ordinances pertaining to trees overhanging streets and
sidewalks;
         (b)   House numbering, as same is required for placement on
structures;
         (c)   Ordinances prohibiting littering within parks and otherwise
regulating use of parks by permit or designated area; and
         (d)   Ordinances pertaining to required containers, placement and
removal of garbage and refuse.
      (5)   Enforcement of certain provisions of the planning and zoning code,
provided same is done with the approval of the Chief of Police or Code Official
and in cooperation with other officials:
         (a)   Vision clearance on corner lots; and
         (b)   Off-street parking in front yards.
      (6)   General duties and any and all other duties as may be assigned by
the Chief of Police or Code Official:
         (a)   To effect the provisions of this section, any person or persons
appointed to the position hereby established are given full power and authority
to issue citations, tickets or other documentation of violation of any
ordinance or statute within the corporate limits of the city, and file same
with appropriate courts having jurisdiction;
         (b)   Perform residential vacation checks;
         (c)   Investigate derelict and abandoned vehicles and complaints
related thereto, make notification to owner and keep all records and reports
thereof;
         (d)   Report the need for emergency street repairs, traffic light
irregularities, street light outage, abandoned trash on streets and rights-of-
way and dead animals on public streets and public property to the appropriate
city department; and
         (e)   Courier-deliver documents, messages and the like, as directed by
Chief of Police.
      (7)    Restrictions on the office of Community Service Officer/animal
Control Officer:
         (a)   The person or persons appointed to the position hereby
established shall not at any time carry a firearm or other deadly weapon, or
effect the physical arrest of any individual unless otherwise directed by a
peace officer; and
         (b)   The person or persons appointed to the position hereby
established shall not at any time have the authority to perform any job or duty
which is specifically prohibited by state or federal law.
(1986 Code, § 2-307) (Ord. 2001-15, passed 6-4-2001)
PREVAILING WAGE ACT
§ 32.145 PREVAILING WAGES.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by “The Prevailing Wage Act,” the
general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and
other workers engaged in construction and maintenance of public works coming
under the jurisdiction of the City of Troy is hereby ascertained to be the same
as the prevailing rate of wages for construction and maintenance work in the
Madison County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of
Illinois as of June 2018, a copy of that determination being attached hereto
and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supersede the Department’s June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the City of Troy. The
definition of any terms appearing in this Ordinance which are also used in
aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction and maintenance of the City of Troy to the extent
required by the aforesaid Act.
   (C)   The City of Troy shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the City of Troy this
determination or any revisions of such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this
determination or of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of
wages then in effect shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (D)   The City of Troy shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The City of Troy Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein with both the Secretary of State Index Division and
The Department of Labor of the State of Illinois.
   (F)   The City of Troy Clerk shall send the ordinance to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the area notification of passage of the
ordinance codified herein, regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other
workers by the City Council of the City of Troy, Illinois and such publication
shall constitute notice that the determination is effective and that this is
the determination of this public body. The ordinance codified herein shall
otherwise be published in pamphlet form.
(Ord. 2011-07, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2013-05, passed 6-3-2013; Ord. 2014-07,
passed 6-2-2014; Ord. 2017-14, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 2018-13, passed 6-18-2018)
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS; DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
33.01   (Reserved)
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
   
33.15   Established
   
33.16   Membership; qualifications
   
33.17   Terms of office
   
33.18   Oath or affirmation of office
   
33.19   Fidelity bond required
   
33.20   Compensation
   
33.21   Adoption of rules by the Board
   
33.22   Discharge of duties imposed upon the Board by statute
   
33.23   Exclusion of position of Chief of Police from the jurisdiction of the
Board
Economic Development Commission
   
33.40   Established
   
33.41   Duties
   
33.42   Certificates of appointment
   
33.43   Organization and rules
   
33.44   Chairperson
   
33.45   Report to the City Council
   
33.46   Ex officio Clerk and Secretary
Planning Commission
   
33.60   Created
   
33.61   Composition; appointments; compensation
   
33.62   Ex officio members
   
33.63   Terms
   
33.64   Vacancies
   
33.65   Chairperson; other officers
   
33.66   Rules and regulations; records
   
33.67   Powers and duties
Historic Preservation
   
33.80   Purpose
   
33.81   Definitions
   
33.82   Historic Preservation Commission
   
33.83   Criteria and procedure for landmark designation
   
33.84   Criteria and procedure for historic district designation
   
33.85   Applications for nominations of landmarks and historic districts
   
33.86   Certificate of appropriateness
   
33.87   Certificate of economic hardship
   
33.88   Appeals
   
33.89   Natural destruction or demolition
   
33.90   Fees and penalties
Cross-reference:
   Board of Trustees of Police Pension Fund, see §
35.076
§ 33.01 (RESERVED)
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
§ 33.15 ESTABLISHED.
   The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the city (hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”) is hereby established.
(1986 Code, § 2-271) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Police, see
Ch. 35
§ 33.16 MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Number.  The Board shall consist of three members.
   (B)   Qualifications. The members of the Board shall be considered officers
of the municipality and shall file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount
as may be required by the governing body of the municipality. No person holding
an office under a municipality shall be a member of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners or the secretary thereof. The acceptance of any such
office by a member of the Board shall be treated as a resignation of his or her
office as a member of the Board or the secretary thereof. No person shall be
appointed a member of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners who has been
convicted of a felony under the laws of this state or comparable laws of any
other state or the United States. No person shall be appointed a member of the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners who is related, either by blood or
marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected official of the
municipality. No more than two members of the Board shall belong to the same
political party existing in the municipality at the time of the appointments
and as defined in § 10-2 of the Election Code. If only one or no political
party exists in the municipality at the time of the appointments, then state or
national political party affiliations shall be considered in making the
appointments. Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of the person
appointed as a member of the Board. Members shall not be subject to removal,
except for cause, upon written charges, and after an opportunity to be heard
within 30 days in his or her or their own defense, before a regular meeting of
the governing body of the municipality for which they have been appointed. A
majority vote of the elected members of the governing body shall be required to
remove any such member from office.
(1986 Code, § 2-272) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986; Ord. 1987-22, passed 10-
13-1987; Ord. 2007-05, passed 2-5-2007)
§ 33.17 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Terms of office of initial three appointees.  One of the initial
members of the Board shall be appointed to serve until the end of the then
current fiscal year of the city. Another of the initial members of the Board
shall be appointed to serve until the end of the fiscal year of the city next
ensuing. The third initial member of the Board shall be appointed to serve
until the end of the fiscal year second next ensuing. Regardless of these
provisions, however, every member of the Board shall serve until his or her
successor is appointed and has qualified.
   (B)   Terms of office of successor members of the Board. The terms of office
of successor members of the Board shall be three years and until the respective
successors are appointed and have qualified.
(1986 Code, § 2-273) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.18 OATH OR AFFIRMATION OF OFFICE.
   Before entering into the performance of the duties of a member of the Board,
each person appointed to that office shall first sign and file with the City
Clerk an oath or affirmation that he or she will discharge faithfully the
duties of the office. The oath or affirmation shall be in the following form:
   I, _________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the
Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
member of the Troy Board of Fire and Police Commissioners according to the best
of my ability.
   Signature______________________
(1986 Code, § 2-274) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.19 FIDELITY BOND REQUIRED.
   Before entering into the performance of the duties of a member of the Board,
each person appointed to that office shall first execute a fidelity bond, in
the penal sum of $100 payable to the people of the city, guaranteeing his or
her faithful performance of his or her duties as a member of the Board. The
fidelity bond shall be in the following form:
   I, _____________, bind myself to the People of the City of Troy, Illinois,
that I will discharge faithfully the duties of the office of member of the Troy
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners.
The obligation of this bond is limited to $100.00.
Dates: This _____ day of____________, 20_____.
                           ___________________________________________________
   Member of the Troy Board of Fire and Police Commissioners
State of Illinois       )
               )SS
County of Madison   )
   I, ________, a notary public in and for the County of Madison and the State
of Illinois, hereby certify that_________, known to me to be the same person
whose name is subscribed to the foregoing document, appeared before me this day
in person and acknowledged that he or she signed the foregoing document as his
or her free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal is this _____ day of __________, 20____.
                              ___________________
                        Notary Public
My commission expires:_____________ .
(1986 Code, § 2-275) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.20 COMPENSATION.
   The members and the secretary of the Board shall not receive any
compensation from the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-276) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.21 ADOPTION OF RULES BY THE BOARD.
   The Board shall adopt the rules required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5.
The Board shall not make any rule, however, which governs the operation of the
city’s Police Department or the conduct of its members.
(1986 Code, § 2-277) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.22 DISCHARGE OF DUTIES IMPOSED UPON THE BOARD BY STATUTE.
   The Board shall perform all the duties imposed upon it by ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.
(1986 Code, § 2-278) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 33.23 EXCLUSION OF POSITION OF CHIEF OF POLICE FROM THE JURISDICTION OF THE
BOARD.
   The position of Chief of Police of the City Police Department is hereby
excluded from the jurisdiction of the Board.
(1986 Code, § 2-279) (Ord. 1986-31, passed 10-20-1986)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 33.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established the City Economic Development Commission
composed of eight members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-280) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.41 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Commission shall include but are not limited to advising
the Mayor of appropriate economic development activities in the city; assisting
the Mayor in the development of a healthy commercial environment in the city
and assisting the Mayor and City Council in the attraction of new business to
the city. In addition thereto, the Mayor and City Council may assign additional
duties and activities to the Commission and its members.
(1986 Code, § 2-281) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.42 CERTIFICATES OF APPOINTMENT.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to notify
members of the Commission of the appointments and to issue certificates of
appointment to each member.
(1986 Code, § 2-282) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.43 ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   The members of the Commission are hereby directed to meet to organize
themselves in such manner as they deem fit and to establish rules of proceeding
for the conduct of their activities as set forth herein.
(1986 Code, § 2-283) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.44 CHAIRPERSON.
   There is hereby established the Office of Chairperson of the Commission who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-284) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.45 REPORT TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The Commission is hereby directed to report to the City Council, in writing,
not less often than monthly, its activities and undertakings pursuant to this
subchapter and to report on the state of economic development activities in the
city.
(1986 Code, § 2-285) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 33.46 EX OFFICIO CLERK AND SECRETARY.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed as the ex officio Clerk and Secretary of
the Commission and that all records of the Commission, including but not
limited to minutes of all meetings shall be deposited with the City Clerk for
safekeeping.
(1986 Code, § 2-286) (Ord. 1997-20, passed 5-5-1997)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.60 CREATED. 
   A Planning Commission is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-4, to provide guidance, direction and control of the
growth, development and redevelopment of the city.
(1986 Code, § 16-16)
Cross-reference:
   Land Use Committee of City Council, see §
31.13
Statutory reference:
   Planning commissions generally, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-4
   Plats, see ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205 §§ 1 et seq.
§ 33.61 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENTS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine voting members. Members
of the Planning Commission shall reside within the city or within territory
contiguous to the city and not more than one and one-half miles beyond the
corporate limits of the city and not included within any other municipality.
The Mayor shall appoint the voting members with the advice and consent of the
City Council. A majority of the voting members—that is, five voting
members—shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting the Planning
Commission’s business.
(1986 Code, § 16-17)
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission, including the Chairperson and
Recording Secretary, shall be compensated as set by the City Council from time
to time.
(Ord. 1987-27, passed 12-7-1987; Ord. 07-09, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 33.62 EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and City Council members shall serve as nonvoting ex officio
members of the Planning Commission.
(1986 Code, § 16-18)
§ 33.63 TERMS.
   The members of the Planning Commission shall serve terms of one year.
(1986 Code, § 16-19)
§ 33.64 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Planning Commission shall be filled by the Mayor and City
Council by appointment for the unexpired terms only.
(1986 Code, § 16-20)
§ 33.65 CHAIRPERSON; OTHER OFFICERS.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its members and
such other officers as it may deem necessary to conduct its business. The
Chairperson shall not vote except in the case of a tie vote of the other
members of the Planning Commission.
(1986 Code, § 16-21)
§ 33.66 RULES AND REGULATIONS; RECORDS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt rules, regulations and procedures
consistent with this code, other city ordinances and state law. The Commission
shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all
regular office hours to public inspection.
(1986 Code, § 16-22)
§ 33.67 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a Comprehensive Plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city;
   (B)   To recommend to the City Council reasonable requirements for
subdivision and re-subdivision of unimproved land and, subject to
redevelopment, with respect to parks, playgrounds, school grounds and other
public improvements;
   (C)   To suggest to the City Council lands suitable for annexation to the
city and the recommended zoning classification for the land upon annexation;
   (D)   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official Comprehensive
Plan;
   (E)   To recommend changes in the zoning ordinance and exercise the powers
conferred by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-13-1 through 11-13-20;
   (F)   To prepare and recommend to the city, from time to time, plans for
specific improvements and pursuant to the official Comprehensive Plan;
   (G)   To give aid to the city officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
Comprehensive Plan;
   (H)   To cooperate with county and regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area; and
   (I)   To exercise such other powers granted to planning commissions by state
law.
(1986 Code, § 16-23)
HISTORIC PRESERVATION
§ 33.80 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation, and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety, and
welfare of the people of the city by:
   (A)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of Troy which represent elements of the city's
cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history;
   (B)   To promote civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in Troy's landmarks and historic districts;
   (C)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of Troy's
landmarks and historic areas;
   (D)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to have
buyers, visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry, and providing economic benefit to the city;
   (E)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas, and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.81 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases in this subchapter shall
be interpreted giving them the same meaning as they have in common usage and so
as to give this subchapter its most reasonable application.
   ADDITION. Any act or process which changes one or more of the “exterior
architectural features” of a structure designated for preservation by adding
to, joining with or increasing the size or capacity of the structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
   AREA. A specific geographic division of the City of Troy.
   BUILDING. Any structure created for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the land.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. A certificate from the Historic Preservation
Commission authorizing plans for alterations, construction, removal or
demolition of a landmark or site within a designated historic district.
   COMMISSION. Troy Historic Preservation Commission.
   COMMISSIONERS. Voting members of the Troy Historic Preservation Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of adding an addition to an existing structure or the
erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Troy.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a landmark
or site within a historic district.
   DESIGN GUIDELINE. A standard of appropriated activity that will preserve the
historic and architectural character of a structure or area.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE. The architectural and general composition
of the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to the kind, color,
and the texture of the building material and the type, design and character of
all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area designated as a “historic district” by ordinance
of the City Council and which may contain within definable geographic
boundaries one or more landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other
properties or structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the
overall visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the
historic district.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site which has been designated as a
“landmark” by ordinance of the City Council, pursuant to procedures prescribed
herein, that is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration, and preservation because
of its historic and/or architectural significance to the City of Troy.
   OWNER OF RECORD. The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as
owner on the records of the County Recorder of Deeds.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the property which are
significant to its historic, architectural and cultural values.
   REMOVAL. Any relocation of a structure on its site or to another site.
   REPAIR. Any change that does not require a building permit, that is not
construction, relocation or alteration.
   STRUCTURAL CHANGE. Any change or repair in the supporting members of a
building, structure, roof or exterior walls which would expand the building in
height, width, or bulk of the building.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, buildings, fences, gazebos,
advertising signs, bill boards, backstops for tennis courts, radio and
television antennae, including supporting towers, swimming pools, satellite
dishes, solar panels, and wind generation.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.82 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Composition. The Troy Historic Preservation Commission shall consist
of five voting members appointed as officers of the city by the Mayor and
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Qualifications. The members shall be appointed on the basis of
expertise, experience or interest in the area of architectural history,
building construction or engineering, finance, historical and architectural
preservation, neighborhood organizing, or real estate.
   (C)   Term of office. Members of the Commission shall be appointed for terms
of three years. Of those members first taking office, two shall be appointed
for one year, two for two years, and one for three years. Alternate members
shall be appointed to served in the absence of or disqualification of the
regular members. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members
shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   Officers. Officers shall consist of a chairman, vice-chairman, and a
secretary elected by the Historic Preservation Commission who shall serve a
term of one year and shall be eligible for reelection. The chairman shall
preside over meetings. In the absence of the chairman, the vice-chairman shall
perform the duties of the chairman. If both are absent, a temporary chairman
shall be elected by those present. The secretary to the Historic Preservation
Commission shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Take minutes of each Historic Preservation Commission meeting;
      (2)   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the Historic Preservation Commission to the
members of the Historic Preservation Commission;
      (3)   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the Historic Preservation Commission;
      (4)   Advise the Mayor of vacancies on the Historic Preservation
Commission and expiring terms of members; and
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the City Council a complete record of the
proceedings before the Historic Preservation Commission on any matter requiring
Council consideration.
   (E)   Meetings.
      (1)   A quorum shall consist of a majority of the members. All decisions
or actions of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be made by a majority
vote of those members present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists.
Meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times to be established by
resolution of the Commission at the beginning of each calendar year or at any
time upon the call of the Chairman.
      (2)   No member of the Historic Preservation Commission shall vote on any
matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the Commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition, or demolition until such owner shall
first have had the opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the Historic
Preservation Commission, as provided herein. The Chairman, and in his or her
absence the acting Chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the Historic Preservation Commission shall be open
to the public. The Historic Preservation Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records if
its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Historic Preservation Commission and shall be a
public record.
   (F)   Powers and duties. 
      (1)   To adopt its own procedural regulations which shall be subject to
approval by the City Council;
      (2)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and
architecturally significant properties, structures and areas;
      (3)   To investigate and recommend to the City Council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community, or architectural value as “landmarks”;
      (4)   To investigate and recommend to the City Council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value as “historic districts”;
      (5)   To keep a register of all properties and structures that have been
designated as landmarks or historic districts, including all information
required for each designation;
      (6)   To determine an appropriate system of markers and make
recommendations for the design and implementation of specific markings of the
streets and routes leading from one landmark or historic district to another;
      (7)   To advise owners of landmarks and property or structures within
historic districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for inclusion on the
State or National Register of Historic Places;
      (8)   To inform and educate the citizens of Troy concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city by publishing appropriate maps,
newsletters, brochures, and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars;
      (9)   To hold public hearings and to review applications for
construction, alteration, removal, or demolition affecting proposed or
designated landmarks or structures or historic districts and issue or deny
certificates of appropriateness for such actions. Applicants shall be required
to submit plans, drawings, elevations, specifications, and other information as
may be necessary to make decisions;
      (10).   To develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction, or removal of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts;
      (11)   To review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts. Such review shall be made prior to the date of the hearing by the
City Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (12)   To administer on the behalf of the city any property or full or
partial interest in real property, including a conservation right as that term
is used in ILCS Ch. 765, Act 120, § 1, which the city may have or accept as a
gift or otherwise, upon designation by the City Council;
      (13)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city, upon designation
by the City Council, such gifts, grants and money as may be appropriate for the
purpose of this subchapter;
      (14)   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts
for technical advice;
      (15)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the City
Planning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals, on any matter affecting
historically and architecturally significant property and landmarks; and
      (16)   To periodically review the Troy Zoning Ordinance and to recommend
to the City Planning Commission and the City Council any amendments appropriate
for the protection and continued use of landmarks or property and structures
within historic districts.
   (G)   Surveys and research. The Historic Preservation Commission shall
undertake an ongoing survey and research effort in the city to identify
neighborhoods, areas, sites, structures, and objects that have historic,
community, architectural, or aesthetic importance, interest, or value. As part
of the survey, the Historic Preservation Commission shall review and evaluate
any prior surveys and studies by any unit of government or private organization
and compile appropriate descriptions, facts, and photographs. The Historic
Preservation Commission shall identify potential landmarks and adopt procedures
to nominate them in groups based upon the following criteria:
      (1)   The potential landmarks in one identifiable neighborhood or
district geographical area of the city;
      (2)   The potential landmarks associated with a particular person, event,
or historical period;
      (3)   The potential landmarks of a particular architectural style or
school, or of a particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or craftsman;
and
      (4)   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the Historic Preservation
Commission to assure systematic survey and nomination of all potential
landmarks within the city.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.83 CRITERIA AND PROCEDURE FOR LANDMARK DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Criteria.
      (1)   Nominations shall be made to the Historic Preservation Commission
on a form provided by the Commission. A filing fee may be required.
      (2)   The Commission shall, upon investigation as it deems necessary,
make a preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure, or area
possesses the integrity of design, workmanship, materials, location, setting
and feeling and meets one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state or nation;
         (b)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state or country;
         (c)   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of
architecture inherently valuable for the study of a period, type, method of
construction or use of indigenous materials;
         (d)   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect, or artist
whose individual work has influenced the development of the community, county,
state or country;
         (e)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that
make it an established or familiar visual feature;
         (f)   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including but not limited to farmhouses, gas stations,
or other commercial structures, with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance;
         (g)   Area that has yielded or may be likely to yield, information
important in history or prehistory.
      (3)   A preliminary determination as to whether a property, structure, or
area meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 15 days
of filing of a nomination with the Commission.
   (B)   Landmark designation procedures.
      (1)   The Commission shall schedule a public hearing within 60 days after
the filing of an application to the Planning Department.
         (a)   Any person, group of persons or association, including, but not
limited to the Troy Historic Preservation Commission, may request a historic
landmark designation for any structure building or site within the boundaries
of the city which may have historic or architectural significance as defined by
this subchapter. The Building and Zoning Department shall supply, upon request,
the application forms. Completed forms shall be submitted to the Building and
Zoning Department which shall be forwarded to the Commission for their
consideration.
         (b)   Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as
to the adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior
to the date of the hearing. A public hearing notice also shall be published in
a newspaper having general circulation in the city. The notice shall state the
location of the property and a statement summarizing how the proposed landmark
meets the criteria set forth in division (A)(2) above, under Criteria for
Landmark Designation.
         (c)   Upon receipt of the application, the secretary of the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing, to be held within 45 days after preliminary
approval of application.
         (d)   During the public hearing, the Commission shall review and
evaluate the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
         (e)   If the Historic Preservation Commission finds at the time that
the application merits further consideration, then the Commission may table the
request until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
         (f)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for
alteration, construction, removal or demolition of a proposed landmark from the
date when the nomination form is presented to the Commission until the final
disposition of the request.
      (2)   A decision shall be made within 30 days following the date of the
closing of the public hearing.
         (a)   Following the public hearing, the Secretary of the Commission
shall prepare the Commission's evaluation, recommendation and all available
information for submission to the City Council within 30 days.
         (b)   If the Commission decides that the landmark should be
designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of the
Commission.
         (c)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Commission's decision.
         (d)   A simple majority vote by the City Council is necessary for
approval of a landmark designation. If the City Council approves the
application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner, the
Building and Zoning Department, the Building Inspector, the City Clerk's
office, and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds. If the City Council
denies the petition, no petitioner or applicant can file for 90 days to the
Secretary of the Commission.
         (e)   Buildings designated as historic landmarks shall be subject to
issuance of certificates of appropriateness.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
Cross-reference:
   Historic Landmarks, see
TSO II
§ 33.84 CRITERIA AND PROCEDURE FOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Criteria for historic district designation.
      (1)   Nominations shall be made to the Historic Preservation Commission
on a form provided by the Commission. A filing fee may be required.
      (2)   The following criteria shall be utilized by the Troy Historic
Commission in determining the designation of historic districts:
         (a)   The historic district contains one or more landmarks along with
such other buildings, places or areas within its definable geographic
boundaries which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as
landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the
landmark or landmarks located in such District;
         (b)   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards
of §
33.83 (A)(2) under Landmark Designation Criteria;
         (c)   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the city, and/
or;
         (d)   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic,
political or architectural history of the nation, the state or the city.
      (3)   A preliminary determination as to whether a district or an area
meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within 60 days of the
filing of a nomination with the Commission.
   (B)   Historic district designation procedure.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons, or association, including but not
limited to the Troy Historic Commission, may present to the Commission a
petition requesting that a defined geographic area be designated as an historic
district. The Planning Department shall supply, upon request, the application
forms. Completed forms shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning Department
which shall forward them to the Commission for their consideration.
      (2)   The petition shall contain the names of no less than 51 % of the
property owners. If lease holders, with a five year or longer leasehold
interest, are signatories to the petition then the petition shall contain no
less than 51% of the property owners and/or leaseholders.
      (3)   Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) -as well as to
the adjoining property owners, not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to
the date of the hearing. A public notice also shall be published in a newspaper
having general circulation in the city. The notice shall state the location of
the property and a statement summarizing how the proposed landmark meets the
criteria set forth in §
33.84(A)(2) under Criteria for Historic Designation.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the application, the Secretary of the Commission
shall schedule a public hearing to be held within 30 days from after
preliminary approval of application.
      (5)   During the public hearing the Commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
      (6)   If the Historic Preservation Commission finds at the time that the
application merits further consideration, then the Commission may table the
request until its next regular scheduled meeting.
      (7)   A decision shall be made within 30 days following the date of the
closing of the public hearing.
      (8)   Following the public hearing, the Secretary of the Commission shall
prepare the Commission's evaluation, recommendation and all available
information for submission to the City Council within 30 days.
      (9)   If the Commission decides that the proposed historic district
should be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of
the Commission.
      (10)   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the Commission's decision.
      (11)   A simple majority vote by the City Council is necessary for
approval of a historic preservation designation. If the City Council approves
the application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner,
the Building and Zoning Department, the Building Inspector, the City Clerk's
office and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds that the area has been
designated as such and that buildings located within the boundaries of the
historic district shall be subject to issuance of certificate of
appropriateness. If the City Council denies the petition, no petitioner can
file for 90 days to the Secretary of the Commission.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.85 APPLICATIONS FOR NOMINATIONS OF LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   Any person, group of persons or association, may apply to the Troy Historic
Preservation Commission for the designation of a landmark or historic district.
Applications for a nomination shall be filed at the planning office. Persons
wishing guidance or advice prior to completing an application may contact the
staff of the Planning Commission. At a minimum, the application shall include
the following:
   (A)   For a landmark:
      (1)   The name and address of the property owner.
      (2)   The legal description and common street address of the property.
      (3)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation.
      (4)   Documentation that the property owner has been notified or consents
to the application for designation.
      (5)   A list of significant exterior architectural features that should
be protected.
      (6)   An overall site plan and photographs of the landmark. The plan
shall also include a front, side and rear elevation drawing.
   (B)   For a historic district:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the property owners.
      (2)   A map delineating the boundaries of the area to be designated.
      (3)   A written statement describing the area and properties within the
historic district and setting forth reasons in support of the proposed
designation.
      (4)   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features of all properties in the district that should be protected.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.86 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Requirement. A certificate of appropriateness issued by the Commission
shall be required before a building permit, moving or building permit or
demolition permit is issued for any designated historic landmark or any
building, structure or site or part thereof in the historic district. It is
required if the building, structure, or site will be altered, extended, or
repaired in such a manner as to produce a major change in the exterior
appearance of such building or structure. Such major changes include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Major changes by addition, alteration, maintenance, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, renovation, or repair;
      (2)   Any new construction and demolition in whole or in part requiring a
permit from the city;
      (3)   Moving a building;
      (4)   Any construction, alteration, demolition, or removal affecting a
significant exterior architectural feature as specified in the ordinance
designating the landmark or historic district;
      (5)   An exception to the certificate of appropriateness shall be made if
the applicant shows to the Commission that a failure to grant the permit will
cause an imminent threat to life, health or property.
   (B)   Application for certificate of appropriateness. Every application for
a demolition permit or a building permit, including plans and specifications
shall be forwarded by the Building and Zoning Department to the Historic
Preservation Commission within 15 days following receipt of the application by
the Building and Zoning Department. The application for issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness must include:
      (1)   Street address of the property involved.
      (2)   Legal description of the property involved.
      (3)   Brief description of the present improvements situated on the
property.
      (4)   A detailed description of the construction, alteration, demolition
or use proposed together with any architect drawings or sketches if those
services have been utilized by the applicant and if not, a sufficient
description of the construction, alteration, demolition, and use to enable
anyone to determine what final appearance and use of the real estate will be.
      (5)   Owner's name.
      (6)   Developer's name, if different than owner.
      (7)   Architect's name.
      (8)   A filing fee is required.
   (C)   Standards for certificate of appropriateness. In making a
determination whether to approve or deny an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Troy Historic Preservation Commission shall be guided by
the Secretary of the Interior's “Standards for Rehabilitation”, as follows:
      (1)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site environment.
      (2)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      (3)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
      (4)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (5)   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
      (6)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities, and, where possible materials. Replacement
of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or
pictorial evidence.
      (7)   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of the
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      (8)   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      (9)   New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, skylined architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      (10)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
   (D)   Design guidelines. Design guidelines for applying the criteria for
review of certificates of appropriateness shall at a minimum, consider the
following architectural criteria:
      (1)   Height. The height of any proposed alteration or construction
should be compatible with the style and character of the landmark and with
surrounding structures in an historic district.
      (2)   Proportions of windows and doors. The proportion and relationships
between doors and windows should be compatible with the architectural style and
character of the landmark.
      (3)   Relationship of building masses and spaces. The relationship of a
structure within a historic district to the open space between it and adjoining
structures should be compatible.
      (4)   Roof shape. The design of the roof, facia, and cornice should be
compatible with the architectural style and character of the landmark.
      (5)   Landscaping. Landscaping should be compatible with the
architectural character and appearance of the landmark.
      (6)   Scale. The scale of the structure after alteration, construction,
or partial demolition should be compatible with its architectural style and
character and with surrounding structures in a historic district.
      (7)   Directional expression. Facades in historic districts should blend
with other structures with regard to directional expression. Structures in a
historic district should be compatible with the dominant horizontal or vertical
expression of surrounding structures. The direction expression of a landmark
after alteration, construction, or partial demolition should be compatible with
its original architectural style and character.
      (8)   Architectural details. Architectural details including types of
materials, colors, and textures should be treated so as to make landmark
compatible with its original architectural style and character of a landmark or
historic district.
      (9)   New structures. New structures in a historic district shall be
compatible with the architectural styles and design in said districts.
   (E)   Hearing on application.
      (1)   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness are available
from the Building and Zoning Department. Such applications shall be completed
and submitted to the Building and Zoning Department which shall be forwarded to
the Historic Preservation Commission. The Commission shall schedule a public
meeting for consideration of the application within 15 days of receipt of
application. A public notice for consideration of the application shall be made
not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days before hearing, in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the city.
      (2)   If the Historic Preservation Commission finds at the time that the
application merits further consideration, then the Commission may table the
request until its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (F)   Issuance of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall notify the applicants of
their decision within five days after the public meeting. Upon approval of the
application, the Commission shall direct the Building and Zoning Department to
issue signed certificate of appropriateness to the applicant with copies
forwarded to the Building Inspector.
      (2)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be invalid if changes in the
plans reviewed by the Commission are necessary in obtaining a building permit
or if the building permit issued for the same work becomes invalid. The
certificate of appropriateness remains valid for the same period of validity as
the building permit (six months).
   (G)   Appeals for denial of a certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   In the event of denial of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Commission shall notify the applicant in writing of the
disapproval and the reasons therefore and shall recommend changes, if any, in
the proposed action that would cause the Commission to reconsider its denial.
      (2)   Within 15 days of receipt of the notification of disapproval, the
applicant may resubmit an amended application that takes into consideration the
recommendations of the Historic Preservation Commission. The application shall
be considered to be withdrawn if no written modification on request for public
hearing is received. Within 15 days of receipt of a written modification the
Commission must either issue the certificate of appropriateness or hold a
hearing.
   (H)   Findings on appeal. 
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall select a reasonable time
and place for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the
applicant by mailing notice of the hearing, said mailing to be made at least
ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be
published at least once, not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days before the
hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation published in the city.
      (3)   The Chairperson shall conduct the hearing and the Historic
Preservation Commission and the applicant shall have the right to introduce
evidence and cross examine witnesses. A recorded or written transcript of the
hearing shall be made and kept.
      (4)   The Commission shall vote, announce its decision, make its
recommendation, and notify the Planning Department and the applicant within
five days after the conclusion of the public hearing, unless the time is
extended by mutual agreement between the Commission and the applicant.
      (5)   In the event of a denial of appeal by the Historic Preservation
Commission, the applicant may appeal the decision of the City Council, whose
decision in this matter shall be final subject only to judicial review as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.87 CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this subchapter to the contrary,
the Commission may issue a certificate of economic hardship to allow the
performance of work for which a certificate of appropriateness has been denied.
   (A)   Applicants claiming economic hardship shall be required to apply to
the Commission to determine eligibility for rehabilitation assistance. The
eligibility for and availability of financial aid shall be considered by the
Commission in making its decision.
   (B)   An applicant for a certificate of economic hardship may submit any or
all of the following information in order to assist the Commission in making
its determination on the application:
      (1)   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the
party from whom purchased (including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased).
      (2)   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according
to the two most recent assessments.
      (3)   Real estate taxes for the previous two years.
      (4)   Remaining balance on mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if
any, for the previous two years.
      (5)   All appraisals obtained within the previous two years by the owner
or applicant in connection with this purchase, financing or ownership of the
property.
      (6)   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any.
      (7)   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for
the property.
      (8)   If the property is income-producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two years, itemized operating and maintenance
expenses for the previous two years, and annual cash flow before and after debt
service, if any during the same period.
      (9)   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
      (10)   Any other information including the income tax bracket of the
owner, applicant or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary
for a determination as to whether the property can be reasonably used or yield
a reasonable return to present or future owners.
   (C)   If the Commission finds that without approval of the proposed work,
the property owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic return therefrom, then
the application shall be delayed for a period not to exceed three months.
During this period of delay, the Commission shall investigate plans and make
recommendations to the City Council to allow for a reasonably beneficial use or
a reasonable economic return, or to otherwise preserve the subject property.
Such plans and recommendations may include, but not be limited to: a relaxation
of the provisions of this subchapter, a reduction in real property taxes,
financial assistance, building code modifications and/or changes in zoning
regulations.
   (D)   If by the end of this three-month period, the Commission has found
that without approval of the proposed work, the property cannot be put to a
reasonable beneficial use or the owner cannot obtain a reasonable economic
return therefrom, then the Commission shall issue a certificate of economic
hardship approving the proposed work. If the Commission finds otherwise, it
shall deny the application for a certificate of economic hardship.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.88 APPEALS.
   (A)   When a certificate of appropriateness or a certificate of economic
hardship is approved or denied for either a landmark or a structure within a
historic district, the applicant or any interested party may, within 30 days,
appeal the Commission's decision to the City Council. The Council may receive
comments on the contents of the record but no new matter may be considered by
the Council. The City Council may affirm the decision or recommend changes by a
majority vote of the Council after due consideration of the facts contained in
the record submitted to the Council by the Commission. The Council may overturn
the Commission's decision by a majority vote of a quorum of the Council. If the
Council decides that a certificate of economic hardship should be issued, the
Secretary shall notify the applicant and the Inspection Division within seven
days of the Council's decision and the Inspection Division then shall issue the
permit within 15 days.
   (B)   If the Council concurs with the Commission's decision not to issue a
certificate of economic hardship, the Secretary shall notify the applicant and
the Inspection Division within seven days.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.89 NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION.
   In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition of a
site within a historic preservation district or of a landmark, the owner will
be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness from the Commission
prior to reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous structure
may not be required, the exterior design of the property shall be in harmony
with:
   (A)   The exterior design of the structure prior to damage, and
   (B)   The character of the historic preservation district.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
§ 33.90 FEES AND PENALTIES.
   The Historic Preservation Commission may establish an appropriate system of
processing fees for the review of nominations and certificates of
appropriateness. Any person who undertakes or causes an alteration,
construction, demolition, or removal of any nominated or designated landmark or
property within a nominated or designated landmark or designated historic
district without a certificate of appropriateness shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $750. Every day such violation shall continue to exist
shall constitute a separate violation. The Historic Preservation Commission may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in the name of the city to
enjoin, correct or abate any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-06, passed 6-17-2013)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
Section
   
34.01   Adopted by reference
§ 34.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Emergency Operations Plan is adopted by reference and made a part hereof
as if appearing in total.
Editor’s note:
   See Resolution 2010-10 in the city offices for the Emergency Operations
Plan.
CHAPTER 35: POLICE
Section
In General
   
35.001   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer; prohibited
Police Department
   
35.015   Created; composition
   
35.016   General duties of members
   
35.017   Bail
   
35.018   Serving process
   
35.019   Conduct of members
   
35.020   Members serving as witnesses
   
35.021   Department rules and regulations
Chief of Police
   
35.035   Office of Chief of Police created
   
35.036   Capacity as ex officio Marshal and Superintendent of Police
   
35.037   Authority over Police Department
   
35.038   Duty to keep records and make reports
   
35.039   Custodian of property
   
35.040   Inspections
Assistant Chief of Police
   
35.045   Office of the Assistant Chief of Police created
City Jail
   
35.055   Established
   
35.056   Use
   
35.057   Chief of Police to be custodian
   
35.058   Escape
   
35.059   Communications with prisoners
Police Pension Fund
   
35.070   Establishment of fund
   
35.071   Purpose; source of funds
   
35.072   Monies to be paid into Fund
   
35.073   Police officers defined
   
35.074   Applicability
   
35.075   Eligibility for benefits
   
35.076   Board of Trustees
Alarm Systems
   
35.090   Service charge for false alarms established
   
35.091   Failure to pay charges for false alarms
   
35.092   Liability for damages
Cross-reference:
   Board of Fire and Police Commissioners, see §§
33.15 –
33.23
   Duty of Chief of Police to provide continuing services to the city, see §
32.004
   Duty of Police Department with regard to removal of unlawful signs, see §
91.65
    Impersonation of city officers, see §
32.013
   Interference with city officers, see §
32.014
   Law Enforcement Committee of City Council, see §
31.13
   Motor vehicles and traffic, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   Police Department, see S.H.A ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-2
IN GENERAL
§ 35.001 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER; PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly resist or obstruct the performance by one known to
the person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her
official capacity as a peace officer.
(1986 Code, § 17-1) (Ord. 1981-21, passed 9-8-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Offenses against Public Peace and Order, see
Ch. 132
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 35.015 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department to be an executive department of
the city. The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and of
other members as may be provided from time to time by the Mayor and City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 17-16)
§ 35.016 GENERAL DUTIES OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the
city and all statutes applicable to the city, to preserve order, prevent
infractions of the law and to arrest violators thereof.
(1986 Code, § 17-17)
§ 35.017 BAIL.
   (A)   The officer in charge of the Police Department at the time bail is
requested may set the bail; provided that the arrested person may have the
amount of bail set by a magistrate when a magistrate is available.
   (B)   A fee of $20 for bail processing may be imposed against any person
arrested for violation of a bailable municipal ordinance or a state or federal
law.
(1986 Code, § 17-18) (Ord. 2012-02, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 35.018 SERVING PROCESS.
   No member of the Police Department other than the Chief of Police shall
serve any process except by order of his or her superior officer.
(1986 Code, § 17-19)
§ 35.019 CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law-abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Police Department shall
obey the orders and directions of his or her superior.
(1986 Code, § 17-20)
§ 35.020 MEMBERS SERVING AS WITNESSES.
   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness when necessary
in a prosecution for a violation of this code, other ordinance or any state or
federal law. No member of the Police Department shall retain any witness fee
for service as a witness in any action or suit to which the city is a party.
Any fees paid for these services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police,
who shall deposit the same with the City Treasurer.
(1986 Code, § 17-21)
§ 35.021 DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe rules and regulations for the
Police Department relating to hours of duty, vacations, uniforms and conduct of
the members of the Police Department as he or she shall deem advisable. Rules
and regulations made pursuant to this section, when approved by the Mayor and
Council, shall be binding on the members of the Police Department.
(1986 Code, § 17-22)
CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 35.035 OFFICE OF CHIEF OF POLICE CREATED.
   There is hereby established the office of Chief of Police, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The Chief of Police must possess a bachelor’s degree from an
accredited four-year college or university and have at least five years of
full-time service as a police officer.
   (C)   The compensation for the office of the Chief of Police shall be
established from time to time by the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 17-31) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2024-06, passed 2-5-
2024)
§ 35.036 CAPACITY AS EX OFFICIO MARSHAL AND SUPERINTENDENT OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall be ex officio City Marshal and Superintendent of
Police.
(1986 Code, § 17-32)
§ 35.037 AUTHORITY OVER POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the performance of the Police
Department, in all of its functions, and all persons who are members of the
Police Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 17-33)
§ 35.038 DUTY TO KEEP RECORDS AND MAKE REPORTS.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of the Police Department as may be required by state law or by the
City Council.
(1986 Code, § 17-34)
§ 35.039 CUSTODIAN OF PROPERTY.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city and of all property of the city which is not
assigned to the care or custody of any other officer.
(1986 Code, § 17-35)
§ 35.040 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief of Police shall make all inspections necessary under the
provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city requiring him or her
to make inspections.
(1986 Code, § 17-36)
ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE
§ 35.045 OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE CREATED.
   (A)   There is hereby established the office of the Assistant Chief of
Police, who shall be appointed by the Chief of Police, by and with the consent
of the Mayor and City Council. The rank of Assistant Chief of Police shall be
an exempt rank immediately below that of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The Assistant Chief of Police must possess a bachelor's degree from an
accredited four-year college or university and have at least five years of
full-time service as a police officer.
   (C)   The Assistant Chief of Police may be appointed from any rank of sworn,
full-time officers of the Police Department. Should a suitable candidate within
the Department not be identified, a qualified external candidate may be
appointed. The Assistant Chief of Police shall serve at the discretion of the
Chief of Police and, if an internal officer is removed from such office, shall
revert to the rank previously held, without regard as to whether a vacancy
exists in that rank.
   (D)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall provide those services as required
by the Chief of Police. In the event there is a vacancy in the office of Chief
of Police, or in the event the Chief of Police is incapacitated or otherwise
not able to perform the duties of the office, the Assistant Chief of Police
shall have the same powers and duties generally as that of the Chief of Police,
during any vacancy in that office or during the absence or incapacity of the
Chief of Police. The Assistant Chief of Police shall possess such powers and
duties until such time as the vacancy in the office of Chief of Police is
filled, or until such time as the Chief of Police is no longer absent or
incapacitated.
   (E)   The compensation for the office of the Assistant Chief of Police shall
be established from time to time by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 2024-05, passed 2-5-2024)
CITY JAIL
§ 35.055 ESTABLISHED.
   The place in the city heretofore established and used as the city jail, or
any other place which may be hereafter used for that purpose, is hereby
declared to be the city jail.
(1986 Code, § 17-51)
§ 35.056 USE.
   The city jail shall be used for the incarceration of all persons arrested
for violating any state or federal law or any of the provisions of this code or
other city ordinances until the person is lawfully brought before a magistrate
for a hearing or until the person shall be lawfully transferred to some other
place of incarceration or otherwise lawfully released.
(1986 Code, § 17-52)
§ 35.057 CHIEF OF POLICE TO BE CUSTODIAN.
   The Chief of Police shall be the keeper of the city jail and shall have
custody over all persons confined therein and of all property pertaining
thereto.
(1986 Code, § 17-53)
§ 35.058 ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to escape, attempt to escape, or to
assist any prisoner to escape or attempt to escape from the city jail.
(1986 Code, § 17-54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.059 COMMUNICATIONS WITH PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to communicate with any prisoner held in
the city jail without the permission of the Chief of Police or the police
officer in charge.
(1986 Code, § 17-55) Penalty, see §
10.99
POLICE PENSION FUND
§ 35.070 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   There is hereby established a police pension fund and in accordance with the
provisions of an act of the legislature of the state, entitled, “Policemen’s
Pension Fund—Municipalities 500,000 and Under,” ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et
seq. Because of its establishment of this Police Pension Fund, the city hereby
terminates its contributions to, and administration of, all other pension plans
to which it has previously contributed, or which it has previously
administered, in behalf of the police officers who will be covered by the
pension established by this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 17-86) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.071 PURPOSE; SOURCE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval. There shall be and is hereby created a Police Pension
Fund in and for the city, for the purpose of providing pensions for members of
the Police Department of the city under the terms and regulations hereinafter
set forth, and not to be in conflict with the provisions set down in ILCS Ch.
40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 through 3-149 inclusive.
   (B)   The City Council shall annually hereafter levy a tax upon all taxable
property of the city at the rate on the dollar of all taxable property which
will produce an amount which when added to the deductions from the salaries or
wages of police officers and receipts available from all other resources
hereinafter referred to, will equal a sufficient sum to meet the annual
requirements of the Pension Fund. The tax shall be levied and collected in like
manner with general taxes of the city and shall be in addition to all other
taxes now or hereafter authorized to be levied upon all property within the
city. In the event that the Pension Fund in any year, over and above the
reserve fund, is sufficient to meet all demands of those requiring payment
therefrom in that year, the City Council may dispense with the levy of the tax.
(1986 Code, § 17-87) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.072 MONIES TO BE PAID INTO FUND.
   All monies derived from the taxes levied hereunder and the following monies
shall be set apart by the Treasurer of the city to constitute the Police
Pension Fund.
(1986 Code, § 17-88) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.073 POLICE OFFICERS DEFINED.
   POLICE OFFICERS, as used in this subchapter, means any person appointed and
sworn or designated by law as a police officer of the city and who has served
or is serving or shall serve in the regularly constituted Police Department of
the city as a policeman or police officer.
(1986 Code, § 17-89) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.074 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter is applicable to all police officers of the city who meet
the qualifications set forth in ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, Art. 3, of the “Policemen’s
Pension Fund—Municipalities 500,000 and Under.”
(1986 Code, § 17-90) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.075 ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS.
   All police officers and widows or dependents are eligible for pension
benefits from the fund who qualify under ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-107, 3-108,
3-113, 3-118, 3-119 of “Policemen’s Pension Fund—Municipalities under 500,000.”
(1986 Code, § 17-91) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
§ 35.076 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Established; membership. A board of five members, a majority of whom
shall be residents of the city to be chosen as hereinafter provided, shall be
and constitute a Board of Trustees to provide for the disbursement of the Fund
and designate the beneficiaries thereof as herein directed, which Board shall
be known as the “Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund of the City of
Troy.” Two of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, one of the
members shall serve from the date of appointment until May 12, 1988; the other
of the members shall serve from the date of appointment until May 12, 1989; the
successors to the foregoing trustees shall serve for a period of two years or
until such time as their successors are appointed and qualified. The third and
fourth members of the Board shall be elected from the regular police force by
the active members. The fifth member shall be elected from the beneficiaries by
the beneficiaries. The members to be elected shall be elected for a period from
the date of election until April 30, and for two-year terms thereafter.
(1986 Code, § 17-92)
   (B)   Meetings; election of officers. The Board herein provided for shall
hold quarterly meetings on the second Tuesday of July, October, January and
April of each year and special meetings upon the call of the president of the
Board. At the first meeting of the Board, it shall elect one of its members who
shall act as the president of the Board for the period of one year until such
time as his or her successor is elected and qualified. The Board on the same
day also shall elect another of its members as secretary and another as vice-
president, both of whom shall serve for a period of one year or until such time
as their successors are elected and qualified.
(1986 Code, § 17-93)
   (C)   Powers and duties. In addition to the other powers herein granted, the
following further powers and authority are hereby conferred upon the Board:
      (1)   The exclusive control and management of the Fund mentioned herein
and of all monies donated, paid or assessed for the relief or pensioning of
disabled, superannuated and retired members of the Police Department, their
widows, minor children and dependant parents. All such monies shall be placed
by the Treasurer of the city to the credit of the Fund subject to the order of
the Board;
      (2)   To draw pension funds from the treasury and invest the funds, or
any part thereof, in the name of the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension
Fund in interest bearing bonds or tax anticipation warrants of the United
States or the State of Illinois, or of any county of this state or of any
township or municipal corporation
of the state, and in insured shares of federal chartered savings and loan
associations if the shares are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan
Insurance Corporation. All securities shall be deposited with the Treasurer of
the city and shall be subject to the order of the Board. The interest received
from any such investment shall be credited to the account of the Pension Fund;
      (3)   To appoint a clerk and define his or her duties; provided, however,
that no person drawing a pension under this subchapter shall be employed by the
Board as a clerk;
      (4)   To provide for the payment from the fund of all necessary expenses
including clerk hire, attorney’s fees, printing and witness fees; provided that
no compensation shall be paid to any member of the Board for any duty performed
under this subchapter;
      (5)   To make all necessary rules and regulations for its guidance in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (6)   To do any and all other acts required under the provisions of ILCS
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 through 3-149 of “Policemen’s Pension
Fund—Municipalities under 500,000,” as amended in 1963.
(1986 Code, § 17-94) (Ord. 1986-32, passed 10-20-1986)
ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 35.090 SERVICE CHARGE FOR FALSE ALARMS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Any person who owns or operates private alarm equipment in the city
for the purpose of giving an alarm to the City Police Department if an
unauthorized intrusion occurs upon the premises where the alarm is located,
thereby agrees to pay the city a service charge for each false alarm given by
the equipment to which the City Police Department responds.
   (B)   The service charge for each false alarm shall be $25.
(1986 Code, § 17-71) (Ord. 1982-9, passed 10-18-1982; Ord. 1988-10, passed 4-4-
1988; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 35.091 FAILURE TO PAY CHARGES FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   If any service charges levied pursuant to this subchapter are not paid
promptly upon billing, the city may institute a civil action to collect the
charges.
(1986 Code, § 17-72) (Ord. 1982-9, passed 10-18-1982; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-
2021)
§ 35.092 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   In addition to the service charge established by this subchapter, the owners
and operators of any alarm equipment rendering false alarms shall be liable for
all direct and proximate damages and injuries resulting from any false alarm.
(1986 Code, § 17-73) (Ord. 1982-9, passed 10-18-1982; Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-
2021)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Special Taxes; Redevelopment Areas
   
36.001   TIF “Interested Parties” registries
   
36.002   Business District tax imposed
   
36.003   Dorothy Drive Business District taxes imposed
   
36.004   Business District IV
Occupational and Use Taxes
   
36.020   Retailers’ occupation tax
   
36.021   Service occupation tax
   
36.022   Municipal use tax
   
36.023   Hotel and motel use and privilege tax
   
36.024   Gas and electricity occupation and use tax
Locally Imposed and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility
   
36.040   Title
   
36.041   Scope
   
36.042   Definitions
   
36.043   Notices
   
36.044   Late payment
   
36.045   Payment
   
36.046   Certain credits and refunds
   
36.047   Audit procedure
   
36.048   Appeal
   
36.049   Hearing
   
36.050   Interest and penalties
   
36.051   Abatement
   
36.052   Installment contracts
   
36.053   Statute of limitations
   
36.054   Voluntary disclosure
   
36.055   Publication of tax ordinances
   
36.056   Liens filed for unpaid taxes
   
36.057   Application
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
36.070   Definitions
   
36.071   Tax imposed
   
36.072   Collection of tax by retailers
   
36.073   Returns to Department
   
36.074   Resellers
   
36.075   Rebates and exemptions
   
36.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Taxation, see also §
35.071 and
Ch. 110
SPECIAL TAXES; REDEVELOPMENT AREAS
§ 36.001 TIF “INTERESTED PARTIES” REGISTRIES.
   (A)   Recitals.
      (1)   The City of Troy is a municipality as described in § 6(a),Article
VII of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois, and as such may exercise
any power and function pertaining to its government and affairs;
      (2)   Pursuant to § 11-74.4-4.2 of the Tax Increment Allocation
Redevelopment Act, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq. (the "TIF Act"),
the city is required to establish certain "interested parties" registries and
adopt registration rules for such registries; and
      (3)   The city desires to adopt this section in order to comply with the
requirements of the TIF Act.
   (B)   Creation of registry. The Clerk or his or her designee is hereby
authorized and directed to create an "interested parties" registry in
accordance with § 11-74.4-4.2 of the Act for each redevelopment project area
created under the Act and not terminated by the city, whether now existing or
created after the date of the adoption of this section.
   (C)   Adoption of rules. In accordance with § 11-74.4-4.2 of the Act, the
city hereby adopts the registration rules attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance
2021-24 as registration rules for each such "interested parties" registry. The
city, with the consent of the City Attorney as to form and legality, shall have
the authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the Act.
(Ord. 2000-24, passed 10-23-2000; Ord. 2021-24, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 36.002 BUSINESS DISTRICT TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   Imposition of Business District taxes.
      (1)   Retailers’ occupation tax.  A retailers’ occupation tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged, in the Business District, in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled or registered with an agency of the state, at retail within the
Business District at a rate equal to 1.0% of the gross receipts from the sales
made in the course of the business.
      (2)   Service occupation tax. A Business District service occupation tax
is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged, in the Business District as amended
by Ordinance 2005-18, in the business of making sales of service, who, as an
incident to making those sales of service, transfer tangible personal property
within the Business District, either in the form of tangible personal property
or in the form of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, at a rate
equal to 1.0% of the selling price of tangible personal property so transferred
within the Business District.
      (3)   Exclusions from tax. The Business District taxes imposed pursuant
to this section may not be imposed on prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics, for human use.
   (B)   The proceeds of the Business District taxes shall be used solely for
the payment of certain development or redevelopment project costs incurred in
connection with the implementation or construction of the Business District
Plan.
   (C)   The Business District taxes imposed under this section and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereof shall be collected by the
State Department of Revenue (the “Department”) in accordance with Section 6 of
the Business District Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, as enacted by
House Bill 826.
(Ord. 2005-04, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2005-18, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 36.003 DOROTHY DRIVE BUSINESS DISTRICT TAXES IMPOSED.
   (A)   Business District taxes imposed. For the planning, execution and
implementation of the Dorothy Drive Business District Plan and to pay for
Dorothy Drive Business District project costs as set forth in the Plan, all as
provided in the Business District Act, the city hereby imposes the following
taxes (collectively, the “Business District taxes”).
      (1)   Retailers’ occupation tax. Except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(3) of this section, there is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
Dorothy Drive Business District, in the business of selling tangible personal
property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered
with an agency of the state, at retail within the Business District, a
retailers’ occupation tax at a rate equal to 1.0% of the gross receipts from
the sales made in the course of the business.
      (2)   Service occupation tax. Except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(3) of this section, there is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
Dorothy Drive Business District in the business of making sales of service,
who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer tangible
personal property within the Dorothy Drive Business District, either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, a service occupation tax at a rate equal to 1.0% of the
selling price of tangible personal property so transferred within the Dorothy
Drive Business District.
      (3)   Exclusions from tax. The retailers’ occupation tax and the service
occupation tax imposed pursuant to this section shall not be imposed on food
for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold
(other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared
for immediate consumption), prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics, for human use.
   (B)   Business District taxes deposited to Fund. It is hereby expressly
provided that each distribution to the city by the state of the Business
District taxes shall be deposited by the City Treasurer upon receipt into the
Fund and shall be used as provided in the Business District Act.
   (C)   Termination of Business District taxes and Fund. When all Dorothy
Drive Business District project costs, including without limitation all
obligations financing Dorothy Drive Business District project costs incurred
under § 11-74.3-3 of the Business District Act, have been paid in full, all
surplus funds then remaining in the Fund shall be distributed to the City
Treasurer for deposit to the General Corporate Fund of the city. Upon payment
of all the Dorothy Drive Business District project costs and the retirement of
all the Dorothy Drive Business District obligations, but in no event later than
September 19, 2028, the city shall adopt an ordinance immediately rescinding
the Business District Taxes, and the Fund shall be closed.
   (D)   Other actions. The Mayor, the City Clerk and the proper officers,
officials, agents and employees of the city are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
and certificates as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of and to further the purposes and intent of this section, including
the preamble to Ordinance 2005-27.
(Ord. 2005-27, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 36.004 BUSINESS DISTRICT IV.
   (A)   Approval of the District Plan. The Business District Plan, a copy of
which is attached to Ordinance 2020-07 as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by
reference, is hereby approved.
   (B)   Establishment of the Business District. The Business District is
hereby established pursuant to the Business District Plan and the Business
District Law. The boundaries of the Business District are legally described in
Appendix A of the Business District Plan and depicted in Exhibit A of the
Business District Plan, which legal description and depiction are incorporated
herein by this reference. The Business District includes five parcels of real
property which are directly and substantially benefitted by the Business
District Plan. The City Council shall have and possess, without limitation,
such powers with respect to the Business District as authorized under the
Business District Law and the Business District Plan.
   (C)   Imposition of Business District Taxes.
      (1)   A Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property,
other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an
agency of the State of Illinois, at retail within the Business District at the
rate of 1.00% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business; and a Business District Service Occupation Tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged, in the Business District, in the business of making sales
of service, at the rate of 1.00% of the selling price of all tangible personal
property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service.
This "Business District Retailers' Occupation Tax" and this "Business District
Service Occupation Tax" shall not be applicable to the sale of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics, for human use.
      (2)   An occupation tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel, as defined in the
Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax Act, at a rate of 1.00% of the gross rental
receipts from the renting, leasing, or letting of hotel rooms within the
Business District, excluding, however, from gross rental receipts the proceeds
of renting, leasing, or letting to permanent residents of a hotel, as defined
in the Hotel Operators' Occupation Tax Act, and proceeds from the tax imposed
under subsection (c) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act.
      (3)   The taxes imposed pursuant to division (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section shall be for the planning, execution and implementation of the Business
District Plan and to pay for business district project costs as set forth in
the Business District Plan, including payment of bonds, notes or other
obligations (the "obligations") issued to finance such business district
project costs. These taxes shall be in full force and effect until the earlier
of (i) payment of all obligations in accordance with the Business District
Plan, or (ii) the dissolution date (as such term is defined in the Business
District Law) of the Business District.
      (4)   The imposition of these Business District taxes is in accordance
with the provisions of subsections (b), (c) and (d), respectively, of Section
11-74.3-6 of the Business District Law.
      (5)   The taxes imposed pursuant to division (C)(1) of this section and
all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be
collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois.
The Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce such
provisions of this section. The taxes imposed pursuant to division (C)(2) of
this section and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the city. The city shall have full
power to administer and enforce such provisions of this section.
   (D)   Business District Tax Allocation Fund. The city hereby establishes the
Troy Business District IV Tax Allocation Fund in the custody of the City
Treasurer and each distribution of taxes imposed by this section to the city
from the Department of Revenue shall be deposited in such fund for the purpose
of paying or reimbursing business district project costs and obligations
incurred in the payment of the costs.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 3-2-2020)
OCCUPATIONAL AND USE TAXES
§ 36.020 RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of 1% of the gross receipts from sales made in the course of the business
in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1.
(1986 Code, § 19-16)
   (B)   Monthly report. Every person engaged in a business subject to this
section shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the
report to the State Department of Revenue required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, §
3.
(1986 Code, § 19-17)
   (C)   Payment. At the time the report required by division (B) above is
filed, there shall be paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax
imposed on account of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property
during the preceding month.
(1986 Code, § 19-18)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 1
§ 36.021 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposed; rate. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by the servicemen either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-5.
(1986 Code, § 19-31)
   (B)   Monthly report. Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
the municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on
or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by ILCS Ch. 35, Act 115, § 3.
(1986 Code, § 19-32)
   (C)   Payment. At the time the report is filed, pursuant to division (B)
above, there shall be paid to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax
imposed by this section.
(1986 Code, § 19-33)
§ 36.022 MUNICIPAL USE TAX.
   (A)   Imposed; rate. A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the
provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-6 upon the privilege of using in the
municipality any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
of the state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with
an agency of the state. The tax shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price
of the tangible personal property, as “selling price” is defined in ILCS Ch.
35, Act 105, § 1.
(1986 Code, § 19-46)
   (B)   Collection. The tax imposed by this section shall be collected by the
State Department of Revenue and shall be paid before the title or certificate
of registration for the tangible personal property is issued.
(1986 Code, § 19-47)
§ 36.023 HOTEL AND MOTEL USE AND PRIVILEGE TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, whenever any of the
following words, terms or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this division (A).
      HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room offered for rental on a daily basis and
containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental with or without
an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM. The
number of HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite shall be computed on the basis of
those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
      OWNER. Any person, having an ownership interest in, conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room, or receiving the consideration for the
rental of the hotel or motel room.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy
any room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms,
in a hotel or motel for at least 30 consecutive days. The term PERMANENT
RESIDENT shall also include a person who works and lives in the same hotel or
motel.
      PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust,
institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation, district or
other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other representative,
acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in any capacity,
or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. The
masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in any circumstance.
(1986 Code, § 19-61)
   (B)   Levy of tax; exclusions.
      (1)   Levied. There is hereby levied and imposed a tax upon all persons
or owners engaged within the city in the business of renting, leasing or
letting hotel rooms or motel rooms a tax of 5% of the gross rental receipts
from such renting, leasing or letting. The tax shall not be imposed or levied
upon the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of
that hotel.
      (2)   Exclusions.
         (a)   The owner or operator of the hotel or motel shall collect the
tax from the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or motel
room, the person hereinafter referred to as “renter.”
         (b)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or
motel to secure the tax from the renter of the motel or hotel room, and to pay
over to the City Clerk, or any authorized representative of the city, the tax
under procedures prescribed by the City Clerk, or as otherwise provided in this
section.
         (c)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall secure the tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel or motel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this section shall be stated
separately on the document.
(1986 Code, § 19-62)
   (C)   Books and records.
      (1)   The City Treasurer, or authorized representative, may enter the
premises of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of records in
order to effectuate the proper administration of this section, and to assure
the enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for
any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the City Treasurer, or
authorized representative, in the discharge of his or her duties in the
enforcement of this section.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the City Treasurer, or authorized representative,
shall at all times have full access, which records shall include a daily sheet
showing:
         (a)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the 24-hour
period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel rooms where that
shall occur; and
         (b)   The actual hotel or motel tax receipts collected for the date in
question.
(1986 Code, § 19-63)
   (D)   Transmittal of tax revenue.
      (1)   Commencing on August 1, 1988, the owner or owners of each hotel or
motel within the city shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with
respect to each hotel and motel room during each month commencing on August 1,
1988. The return shall be due on or before the last day of each succeeding
calendar month, and the return shall indicate for what period the return is to
be filed; return for January tax receipts is due on or before the last day of
February.
      (2)   Commencing on August 1, 1988, the tax return and payment for such
period shall be due on or before September 30, 1988. Thereafter reporting
periods and taxes shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of this
section. At the time of filing the tax returns, the owner shall pay to the City
Clerk all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
      (3)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 1.5% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the date of
delinquency shall be added and collected.
(1986 Code, § 19-64)
   (E)   Collection. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein
provided, the following shall apply:
      (1)   The City Attorney shall, upon the request of the City Council,
bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on
behalf of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The City Clerk may file a lien upon any real and personal property
of the owner which may be found within the corporate limits of the city.
      (3)   The procedures for notice and enforcement of the lien shall be the
same as that provided in the Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35,
Act 120, § 1, as now or hereafter amended, except that the city rather than the
state shall take such measures.
      (4)   The city shall have other authority, including the right to
subpoena persons and documents, as set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-15.
      (5)   The above remedies shall be cumulative and shall further be
cumulative to any other remedy provided by law, and shall be cumulative to any
penalties set forth in this code.
(1986 Code, § 19-65)
   (F)   Proceeds of tax and fines. All proceeds resulting from the imposition
of the tax under this section, including penalties, shall be appropriated as
follows.
      (1)   Five percent of the gross tax revenue collected each year shall be
appropriated for and directed to the office of the City Treasurer to defray the
costs of administering and processing the imposition, application and
collection of the tax.
      (2)   All the rest, residue and remainder of the tax revenue collected
each year shall be paid into the treasury of the city into a special fund to be
used and applied for the promotion and development of tourism and conventions
in the city.
      (3)   The Economic Development Committee shall also serve as the “City of
Troy Tourism Committee.” The primary responsibility of this Tourism Committee
is to convene as often as necessary and make recommendations to the City
Council as to the orderly disbursements of funds collected.
      (4)   No funds received pursuant to this section shall be used to
advertise for or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
(1986 Code, § 19-66)
   (G)   Penalties. Any person, firm or corporation found wilfully guilty of
failing to pay, collect, report and transmit the hotel or motel tax to the City
Clerk in accordance with the terms of this section shall, except when otherwise
specifically provided, upon conviction thereof be punished by a fine as set
forth in § 36.999.
(1986 Code, § 19-67) (Ord. 1988-21, passed 7-5-1988; Ord. 1997-11, passed 4-7-
1997) Penalty, see §
36.999
Statutory reference:
   Levy of tax, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14; see also ILCS Ch. 35, Act
145, § 1
   Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 1
§ 36.024 GAS AND ELECTRICITY OCCUPATION AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS.  The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas or
electricity for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and
for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property
of every kind and material and for all services rendered therewith, excluding
any utility tax imposed by the state and shall be determined without any
deduction on account of the cost of transmitting the messages without any
deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplies,
the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any other expenses
whatsoever.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
(1986 Code, § 19-81)
   (B)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      (1)   In the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the city, and not for
resale, at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts therefrom; and
      (2)   (a)   Through July 31, 1998, in the occupation of distributing,
supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the
corporate limits of the city, and for resale, at the rate of 3% of the gross
receipts therefrom.
         (b)   1.   From August 1, 1998, and thereafter, persons engaged in the
privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail
and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city at the following
rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser.
Kilowatt Hours (kWh)Used or Consumed Tax Per kWh
Kilowatt Hours (kWh)Used or Consumed Tax Per kWh
0 - 2,000                            0.3099
2,001 - 50,000                       0.2187
50,001 - 100,000                     0.1883
100,001 - 500,000                    0.1796
500,001 - 1,000,000                  0.1600
1,000,001 - 3,000,000                0.1500
3,000,001 - 5,000,000                0.1400
5,000,001 - 10,000,000               0.1300
10,000,001 - 20,000,000              0.1200
20,000,001 thereafter                0.1100
 
            2.   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the rates set forth
in division (B)(2)(a) of this section shall be effective: (a) on August 1,
1998, for residential customers; and (b) for nonresidential customers on the
date of the first bill issued pursuant to ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-104, but in
no case later than the last bill issued to that customer before December 31,
2000.
            3.   The provisions of this division (B)(2)(b) shall not be
effective until August 1, 1998.
(1986 Code, § 19-82)
   (C)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this
state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any person engaged in the
business of transmitting messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired
in a purchase at retail be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the “Municipal Retailers Occupation Tax Act” authorized by
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this section be
imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the
tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
businesses of the same class in the municipality, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
municipality.
(1986 Code, § 19-83)
   (D)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and,
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by the person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding the tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity,
and taxes so collected shall be remitted to the municipality monthly. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to the gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity
for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the municipality upon
request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall pay the tax monthly, directly to the
municipality, in the manner prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering
electricity who file returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of
filing the return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this section.
(1986 Code, § 19-84)
   (E)   Tax return and payment; reports to the municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the city for the preceding month stating.
         (a)   Taxpayer’s name;
         (b)   Taxpayer’s principal place of business;
         (c)   Taxpayer’s gross usage during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the city treasurer for a corresponding one month
period.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(1986 Code, § 19-85)
   (F)   Erroneous payments. If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
(1986 Code, § 19-86)
   (G)   Action to recover tax due. No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three years
after the due date of such amount.
(1986 Code, § 19-87)
   (H)   Penalties. Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as set
forth in §
36.999.
(1986 Code, § 19-88)
   (I)   Effective date of tax. This section shall take effect after
publication and the tax provided for herein shall be based on the “gross
receipts,” as herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed
on or after August 1, 1998.
(1986 Code, § 19-89)
   (J)   Legislative intent. The tax rates set forth in this section shall be
used at least through December 31, 2008, and do not exceed the revenue that
could have been collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 8-11-2 as modified by Public Act 90-561.
(1986 Code, § 19-90) (Ord. 1991-28, passed 12-2-1991; Ord. 1992-10, passed 4-6-
1992; Ord. 1994-08, passed 5-2-1994 Ord. 1999-01, passed 1-4-1999) Penalty, see
§
36.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
§ 36.040 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “locally imposed
and administered tax rights and responsibility ordinance.”
(1986 Code, § 19-91) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.041 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(1986 Code, § 19-92) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.042 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The city’s Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The city’s Treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of this
authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE.  Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of the tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(1986 Code, § 19-93) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.043 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the Local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(1986 Code, § 19-94) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.044 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is either
physically received by the city on or before the due date, or received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the city, with adequate postage
prepaid.
(1986 Code, § 19-95) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.045 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(1986 Code, § 19-96) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.046 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the city.
      (2)   Within 15 days of the receipt by the Local Tax Administrator of any
claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 9% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(1986 Code, § 19-97) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.047 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information.
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the Local
Tax Administrator have agreed to some other convenient time. In the event the
taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days, approved in writing, that
is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the Local
Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the Tax
Administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s tax
liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing the tax.
(1986 Code, § 19-98) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.048 APPEAL.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
Local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
Local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(1986 Code, § 19-99) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.049 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
36.048, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(1986 Code, § 19-100) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.050 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
timeframe otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest.  The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 9%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 19-101) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.051 ABATEMENT.
   The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
Local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(1986 Code, § 19-102) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.052 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30-days’ delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the Local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(1986 Code, § 19-103) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.053 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   (1)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than
four years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      (2)   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
city, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations
shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return
for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the
return for the applicable period was filed.
      (3)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(1986 Code, § 19-104) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.054 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the Local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(1986 Code, § 19-105) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.055 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(1986 Code, § 19-106) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.056 LIENS FILED FOR UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the Local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(1986 Code, § 19-107) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
§ 36.057 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(1986 Code, § 19-108) (Ord. 2000-31, passed 12-18-2000)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 36.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in this
municipality regardless of where the amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT.  The State Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of the telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this municipality, charges for the channel mileage between each
channel point within this municipality, and charges for that portion of the
interstate interoffice channel provided within the state. However, GROSS CHARGE
shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: (a) the tax imposed by this subchapter; (b) the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.;
(c) the tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being U.S.C. Title
26; (d) 911 surcharges; or (e) charges added to customers’ bills pursuant to
the provisions of § 9-221 or § 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being ILCS
Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq., as amended, or any similar charges added to
customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
Illinois Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the Public
Utilities Act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent-collect telecommunication received outside of
the municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes but
is not limited to the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein these charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under § 9-222.1
of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of the exemption and during the
period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this subchapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the
extent that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation
between the corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation
rendering the service;
      (7)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act
635, § 1 et seq.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined herein. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. The retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
the tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of the retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (or any like term).
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether the place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether the
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems and maritime systems,
SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 638,
§§ 1 et seq. For air to ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean
the location of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as
defined by telephone number, authorization code or location in the state where
bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes without limitation messages or information transmitted
through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, private line
services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer
exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized
mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of
mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. As used in this subchapter, PRIVATE LINE means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by the provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of or integrated into end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under this subchapter. For purposes of this section,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in § 2-27 of
the Retailers’ Occupations Tax Act, being ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.
(1986 Code, § 19-109) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.071 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges.
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this division (B), any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on that event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the other state which
was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in
this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on the act or
privilege to the extent the act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(1986 Code, § 19-110) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.072 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by the retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any tax collected by the
retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if unpaid, is
recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for the sale at
retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the Department in the
manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(1986 Code, § 19-111) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.073 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   On or before the last day of February 2003, and on or before the last day of
every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this subchapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (Public Act 92-626, § 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to implement the
Act.
(1986 Code, § 19-112) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.074 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of telecommunications, the person shall apply to the Department for
a resale number. The applicant shall state facts which will show the Department
why the applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by this subchapter on
any of the purchases and shall furnish any additional information as the
Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive the telecommunication tax-free when the
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to the
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
(1986 Code, § 19-113) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.075 REBATES AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   To the extent that the municipality’s territory includes part of
another unit of local government or a school district, the municipality may, by
separate ordinance, rebate some or all of the amount of the tax authorized by
this subchapter paid by the other unit of local government or school district.
Any rebate shall be paid by the municipality directly to the other unit of
local government or school district qualifying for the rebate as determined by
the municipality’s ordinance, which shall not be filed with the Department.
   (B)   The municipality may, by separate ordinance, rebate some or all of the
amount of the tax authorized by this subchapter paid by persons 65 years of age
or older. Any tax related to the rebate shall be rebated from the municipality
directly to persons qualified for the rebate as determined by the
municipality’s ordinance, which shall not be filed with the Department.
(1986 Code, § 19-114) (Ord. 2002-21, passed 9-16-2002)
§ 36.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found wilfully guilty of failing to
pay, collect, report and transmit the hotel or motel tax to the City Clerk in
accordance with the terms of §§
36.020 through
36.024 shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction
thereof be punished by a fine not to exceed $750 for each offense. A separate
and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon which the
person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such violation to exist
after notification thereof.
(1986 Code, § 19-67)
   (C)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of §
36.024 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 and in addition shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(1986 Code, § 19-88)
(Ord. 1988-21, passed 7-5-1988; Ord. 1997-11, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 1999-01,
passed 1-4-1999)
Statutory reference:
   Levy of tax, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-3-14; see also ILCS Ch. 35, Act
145, § 1
   Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, see ILCS Ch. 35, Act 120, § 1
CHAPTER 37: FINANCES AND PURCHASING; FEE SCHEDULE
Section
Funds
   
37.01   Dorothy Drive Business District Tax Allocation Fund
Investment Policy
   
37.15   Policy
   
37.16   Scope
   
37.17   Prudence
   
37.18   Objective
   
37.19   Delegation of authority
   
37.20   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
37.21   Authorized financial dealers and institutions
   
37.22   Authorized and suitable investments
   
37.23   Collaterialization
   
37.24   Safekeeping and custody
   
37.25   Diversification
   
37.26   Maximum maturities
   
37.27   Internal control
   
37.28   Performance standards
   
37.29   Reporting
   
37.30   City Council statement
   
37.31   Investment policy adoption
Purchasing; Bidding and Contract Procedures
   
37.45   General provisions
   
37.46   Purchasing
   
37.47   Bidding and contract procedures
   
Appendix A: Fee Schedule
Cross-reference:
   Police Pension Fund, see
Ch. 35
FUNDS
§ 37.01 DOROTHY DRIVE BUSINESS DISTRICT TAX ALLOCATION FUND.
   (A)   Allocation of Dorothy Drive Business District taxes. From and after
the effective date of the imposition in the Dorothy Drive Business District of
(1) any taxes by the city pursuant to § 11-74.3-3(12) of the Business District
Act, and (2) any taxes by the city pursuant to § 11-74.3-3(13) of the Business
District Act (such taxes being, collectively, the “Dorothy Drive Business
District taxes”) until the Business District development and redevelopment
costs and obligations issued in respect thereto have been paid in full, all
Dorothy Drive Business District taxes shall be allocated to and when collected
shall be paid to the City Treasurer, who shall deposit the taxes into a special
fund of the city, hereby created and designated the “Dorothy Drive Business
District Tax Allocation Fund,” and all such Dorothy Drive Business District
taxes shall be used solely for the purpose of paying business district
development and redevelopment costs and obligations incurred in the payment
thereof.
   (B)   Other actions. The Mayor, the City Clerk and the proper officers,
officials, agents and employees of the city are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
and certificates as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of and to further the purposes and intent of this section, including
the preamble to Ordinance 2005-25.
(Ord. 2005-25, passed 9-19-2005)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 37.15 POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city to invest public funds in a manner which will
provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while meeting
the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state and local
statutes governing the investment of public funds.
(1986 Code, § 2-327) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.16 SCOPE.
   This policy includes all funds governed by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-328) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.17 PRUDENCE.
   (A)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the
probable income to be derived.
   (B)   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the “prudent person” standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio.
(1986 Code, § 2-329) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.18 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
      (1)   Legality. Conformance with federal, state and other legal
requirements;
      (2)   Safety. Preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal;
      (3)   Liquidity. Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements; and
      (4)   Yield.  Attainment of market rates of return.
   (B)   The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as to its effectiveness
in meeting the entity’s need for safety, liquidity, rate of return,
diversification and its general performance.
(1986 Code, § 2-330) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.19 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the Treasurer who, under the delegation of the City
Council, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment
program.
(1986 Code, § 2-331) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.20 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions.
(1986 Code, § 2-332) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.21 AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   The Treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions
authorized to provide investment services.
   (B)   In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
(1986 Code, § 2-333) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.22 AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in state
statutes regarding the investment of public funds.
   (B)   Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund
type being invested.
(1986 Code, § 2-334) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.23 COLLATERALIZATION.
   Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit and the like)
in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by adequate collateral pursuant to the
regulations of the Federal Reserve regarding custody and safekeeping of
collateral.
(1986 Code, § 2-335) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.24 SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the city, shall be conducted on a delivery versus payment (DVP)
basis.
(1986 Code, § 2-336) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.25 DIVERSIFICATION.
   The city shall diversify its investments to the best of its ability based on
the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in and length of maturity.
(1986 Code, § 2-337) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.26 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to match its investments with
anticipated cash flow requirements.
(1986 Code, § 2-338) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.27 INTERNAL CONTROL.
   (A)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the city are
protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
   (B)   The internal controls shall address the following points.
      (1)   Control of collusion;
      (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
      (3)   Custodial safekeeping; and
      (4)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and
wire transfers.
(1986 Code, § 2-339) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.28 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates.
(1986 Code, § 2-340) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.29 REPORTING.
   The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The
report should be provided to the City Council and available on request. The
report should be in a format suitable for review by the general public. An
annual report should also be provided to the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-341) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.30 CITY COUNCIL STATEMENT.
   A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the City
Council quarterly.
(1986 Code, § 2-342) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 37.31 INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION.
   The investment policy shall be adopted by the City Council. The policy shall
be reviewed on an annual basis by the Treasurer and any modifications made
thereto must be approved by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 2-343) (Ord. 1999-36, passed 12-6-1999)
PURCHASING; BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES
§ 37.45 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purchasing agent. The City Administrator shall be the purchasing agent
for the city, as provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5. As purchasing
agent, the City Administrator shall oversee the purchasing of goods and
services by city employees, requiring that they follow good purchasing
practices. The City Administrator shall have the authority to reject any and
all requests or requisitions for the expenditure of funds unless the
expenditures are required by law, or unless instructed by the City Council to
proceed with an expenditure.
   (B)   Monitor of purchases. The City Administrator shall monitor all
expenditures, bringing to the attention of the City Council any purchasing
practices he or she or she feels are unethical, or could be considered a
conflict of interest.
   (C)   Signature. A purchase order or contract shall be valid only when
signed by the City Administrator who shall have determined that there are
sufficient funds appropriated to cover such purchases.
   (D)   Approval. All purchases must be covered by a purchase order or by a
contract, except those purchases under $10,000, which will require approval by
the department head.
   (E)   Revise purchase orders. The City Administrator shall examine all
purchase orders and he or she shall have the authority to revise purchase
orders as to quantity or established cost after consulting with the department
head.
   (F)   Interpretation. Questions of interpretation of these regulations or
questions on procedures in purchasing not specifically stated herein, shall be
referred to the City Administrator.
   (G)   State and federal laws. Except in cases where they are not as
restrictive as the city's purchasing regulations, applicable state and federal
laws shall supersede any regulations of the city concerning purchasing.
(1986 Code, § 6.5-1)
   (H)   Emergency. In the event of an emergency, the City Administrator shall
have the authority to deviate from the purchasing/bidding requirements set
forth in §
37.46, provided the City Administrator exercises proper care in obtaining the
best possible price for the goods or services required by the city at such a
time and taking into consideration the emergency conditions. In the event the
City Administrator deems it necessary to deviate from the purchasing/bidding
requirements set forth in §
37.46, the City Administrator shall notify the Mayor as soon as possible,
document in writing the reasons for such action and present the written report
to the City Council at the next special or regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council.
(Ord. 1992-21, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 1994-25, passed 8-16-1994; Ord. 2008-15,
passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 2021-21, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 37.46 PURCHASING.
   (A)   Purchases less than $10,000. Purchases of goods or services within
this category may be authorized by a department head. Purchases in this
category may be made for goods or services for which there are line items or
categories for expenditure within the department's budget.
   (B)   Purchases from $10,000 to $25,000. For purchases of goods or services
within this category, a department head or City Administrator shall solicit, in
writing, at least three non-sealed bids for the item or items. The department
head shall submit the completed purchase order with the bids attached to the
City Administrator prior to the issuance of a purchase order. The execution of
the bid requirement shall be documented by the department head on the purchase
order provided by the City Administrator. After a purchase order has been
assigned and signed by the City Administrator, the department head may proceed
with the purchase or contract for services to the lowest responsible bidder who
submits the bid most advantageous to the city. The City Administrator is not
required to obtain at least three non-sealed bids for goods or services within
this category but shall seek to contract for goods or services under terms and
conditions that are in the best interest of the city.
   (C)   Purchases greater than $25,000. Contracts for goods or services
greater than $25,000 shall be handled in accordance with the requirements set
forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-9-1 and 8-9-2. The City Council shall have
the authority to award contracts within this category. Contracts for goods or
services within this category shall be purchased from the lowest responsible
bidder, after due notice inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by
a two-thirds vote of the Aldermen then holding office.
   (E)   Blanket orders. At the discretion of the City Administrator blanket
purchase orders may be issued each month to the several vendors the city uses
to supply minor items on a regular basis. Purchase of small items can then be
made by going to the store, purchasing the item, signing a sales slip and
telling the vendor to charge the purchase against the blanket purchase order. A
signed copy of the sales slip is left with the vendor who will send it to the
city with his or her monthly statement.
   (F)   Designee in Administrator's absence. A designee shall be appointed to
act as the City Administrator in emergency situations, when the City
Administrator is unable to be located or is not within the city limits. When
the term CITY ADMINISTRATOR is used in this chapter, the term shall also refer
to the designee who shall have all the powers and limitations of the City
Administrator under the appropriate emergency situation as conferred under this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 6.5-2) (Ord. 1992-21, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 1994-25, passed 8-
16-1994; Ord. 2008-15, passed 9-15-2008; Ord. 2021-21, passed 9-7-2021)
§ 37.47 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application of procedures. The following procedures shall be
applicable for the bidding process for purchases over $25,000 or for purchases
under $25,000 when the City Administrator believes it is in the best interest
of the city to utilize a formal sealed bid procedure.
   (B)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids for purchases shall be
published at least once in a newspaper with general circulation within the
city.
   (C)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (D)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the City Council upon failure on his or her part to enter into a
contract within ten days after the award.
   (E)   Bid specifications.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the department head to prepare written
specifications for open, competitive bidding. The specifications shall be
approved by the City Administrator or by such knowledgeable person as the City
Administrator may appoint to review the specifications. The City Administrator,
at his or her discretion, may mail bid specifications to prospective bidders.
      (2)   The department head shall have the authority to interview such
salespersons or representatives of manufacturing concerns as he or she may wish
in the development of specifications, as long as the interviewing does not
result in a cost to the city.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids for purchases shall be submitted sealed to the City
Administrator's office and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The city shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to city. The city shall not accept the bid for a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies
due the city.
   (I)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City
Council shall consider the following when determining whether the bidder is
responsible:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract and service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      (2)   Performance bonds. The city shall require a 100% performance bond,
before entering into a contract to protect the best interests of the city. In
addition to a performance bond, the city shall retain 10% of the amount
otherwise due as retainage from each progress payment made before substantial
completion of the project/contract. The city may also allow other forms of
security, as deemed acceptable by the City Administrator, to include cashier's
checks or letters of credit.
      (3)   Certificate of insurance. The city shall require all contractors
performing public works projects or performing work on city property in
connection with a purchase order, to maintain insurance of the types and with
limits of liability not less than those set out below at the contractor's
expense during the term (including the warranty period) of the purchase order
from insurers reasonably acceptable to the city covering items, risks and
operations required to fulfill the purchase order:
         (a)   Workers' compensation. Insurance that the contractor is obliged
by law to carry that covers all of contractor's employees performing work under
this purchase order ("worker compensation");
         (b)   Employer's liability insurance. Employer's liability insurance
with a minimum limit of $1,000,000 per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate. Such
insurance shall protect the city as an alternate employer against claims
asserted against the contractor by the contractor's workers as "borrowed
servants," statutory employees or maritime employees ("employer' liability");
         (c)   Commercial or comprehensive general liability insurance.
Commercial or comprehensive general liability insurance, including contractual
liability coverage, with a limit of $2,000,000 per occurrence/$5,000,000
aggregate;
         (d)   Automobile liability insurance. Automobile liability insurance
with a combined bodily injury and property damage minimum limit of $1,000,000
per occurrence/$2,000,000 aggregate for all owned and leased vehicles;
         (e)   Aircraft. If aircraft are used in connection with a purchase
order, aircraft liability insurance, including passenger liability insurance,
with a combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage of
$10,000,000 any one occurrence and a limit of $3,000,000 any one passenger;
         (f)   Other. Any other insurance in the types and amounts required by
applicable law;
         (g)   Primary insurance. All insurance required above shall be primary
to any insurance coverage available to the city regardless of whether the city
carries primary or excess coverage;
         (h)   Waiver of subrogation and additional insured. The policies under
divisions (I)(3)(c) through (I)(3)(f) above shall be endorsed to show the city
as additional insureds and all insurance policies obtained by the contractor
shall contain a waiver of subrogation in favor of the city. The policies
provided for under this section shall contain a provision that any breach by
seller of any warranty, covenant or representation in any of the policies shall
not prejudice any claim by the city as an additional insured;
         (i)   Certificates of insurance and policies. Upon the city's request,
all persons contracting with the city shall furnish to the city certificates of
insurance demonstrating that the contractor, supplier or vendor has obtained
the insurance coverage set out above and containing a statement that the
insurance will not be materially changed or cancelled without at least 30 days'
prior written notice to the city. All coverages must be written on forms
reasonably acceptable to the city. Neither review nor failure to review the
certificates shall constitute approval thereto or be deemed to waive or
diminish city's rights under any purchase order. In the event of an accident or
loss resulting in an insurance claim, the contractor, supplier or vendor, at
city's request, shall provide city with certified copies of its insurance
policies for which the city is shown as an additional insured. This obligation
shall survive the termination of any contract or purchase order;
         (j)   Failure to comply. Neither failure to comply nor full compliance
with the insurance provisions of this purchase order shall limit or relieve any
contractor, vendor or supplier from its liability and/or indemnity obligations
under any contract or purchase order. If a contractor, vendor or supplier fails
or refuses to comply with the obligations set forth in the city's code of
ordinances, the city, without prejudice to any other rights or remedies
available to it under the purchase order or at law, may (1) treat the purchase
order as having been repudiated by the contractor, vendor or supplier or (2)
procure the required insurances and deduct the cost thereof from any amounts
due hereunder or otherwise recover such amounts from the contractor, vendor or
supplier;
         (k)   Sub-vendors and subcontractors. All contractors, vendors or
suppliers shall ensure that each of their vendors and subcontractors shall
maintain insurance which is required under any applicable laws or regulations,
together with such other insurances of types and amounts necessary to cover
risks inherent in the work of that vendor or subcontractor, as well as any
other insurance that the city may deem necessary and such insurance which the
contractor, vendor or supplier is obliged to effect in accordance with this
section; and
         (l)   The City Council shall have the authority to require the
additional insurance requirements if the City Council determines that it is in
the best interest of the city to do so.
(1986 Code, § 6.5-3) (Ord. 1992-21, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 2008-15, passed 9-
15-2008; Ord. 2021-21, passed 9-7-2021)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
   The city schedule of fees, permits and service charges, as amended by
Ordinance 1999-02 and subsequently amended, is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 1999-02, passed - -; Ord. 2003-18, passed 7-21-2003; Ord. 2004-02, passed
2-2-2004; Ord. 2006-02, passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 2006-13, passed 4-17-2006; Ord.
2008-21, passed 11-17-2008; Ord. 2010-10, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2011-08, passed
6-20-2011; Ord. 2017-07, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 2021-05, passed 4-19-2021; Ord.
2022-01, passed 1-18-2022; Ord. 2022-11, passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 2022-45, passed
10-3-2022; Ord. 2024-59, passed 11-4-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision schedule of fees, see §
153.120
CHAPTER 38: POLICIES
Section
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
38.020   Program adoption
   
38.021   Program purpose and definitions
   
38.022   Identification of Red Flags
   
38.023   Detecting Red Flags
   
38.024   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
38.025   Program administration
   
38.026   Procedures
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
38.040   Adoption
Public Works Projects; Wages
   
38.055   Application of state law; determination of prevailing wages
   
38.056   Limitation on required application of prevailing wages
   
38.057   Availability of wage determination to public
   
38.058   Mailing copies of prevailing wages to interested parties
Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment
   
38.070   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
38.071   Definition of sexual harassment
   
38.072   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
38.073   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
38.074   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment
   
38.075   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 38.020 PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   (A)   Title. This Program may be cited as the Identity Theft Prevention
Program Implementation Ordinance.
   (B)   Program adoption.
      (1)   The city has developed this Identity Theft Prevention Program
(“Program”) pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule (“Rule”),
which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of
2003, 16 C.F.R. § 681.2.
      (2)   This Program was developed with oversight and approval of the City
Council. After considering the size and complexity of the city’s operations and
account systems and of the nature and scope of the city’s activities, the City
Council determined that this Program was appropriate for the city, and
therefore approved this Program on April 19, 2010.
   (C)   Applicability. This Program applies to the creation of, modification
of and access to the identifying information of the holder of a covered account
by any and all personnel of the municipality, including management personnel.
This Program does not replace or repeal any previously existing policies or
programs addressing some or all of the activities that are the subject of this
Program, but rather it is intended to supplement any such existing policies and
programs.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.021 PROGRAM PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Program purpose: fulfilling requirements of the Red Flags Rule. It is
the purpose of this Program to fulfill the requirements of the Red Flags Rule.
Under that Rule, every financial institution and creditor is required to
establish an Identity Theft Prevention Program that is tailored to the size,
complexity, and the nature of its operation. Each program must contain
reasonable policies and procedures to:
      (1)   Identify relevant Red Flags for new and existing covered accounts
and incorporate those Red Flags into the Program;
      (2)   Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program;
      (3)   Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected to prevent
and mitigate identity theft; and
      (4)   Ensure that the Program is updated periodically, to reflect changes
in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from
identity theft.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCOUNT or COVERED ACCOUNT.
         (a)   Any account that the city offers or maintains, primarily for
personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and
         (b)   Any other account that the city offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the city from identity theft.
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  Any name or number that may be used, alone or
in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name, address, telephone number, social security number, date of
birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
internet protocol address or routing code.
      IDENTITY THEFT. Fraud committed using the identifying information of
another person.
      RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
      RED FLAG RULE or RULE. The federal administrative regulations that
implement § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, 12
C.F.R. §§ 41.90, 41.91.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.022 IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Considerations in identifying Red Flags. In order to identify relevant
Red Flags, the city considers the types of accounts that it offers and
maintains, the methods it provides to open its accounts, the methods it
provides to access its accounts, and its previous experiences with identity
theft.
   (B)   Notifications and warnings from credit reporting agencies. The city
identifies the following Red Flags concerning notifications and warnings from
credit reporting agencies:
      (1)   A report of fraud accompanying a credit report;
      (2)   A notice or report from a credit agency of a credit freeze on a
customer or an applicant;
      (3)   A notice or report from a credit agency of an active duty alert for
an applicant; and
      (4)   Indication from a credit report of activity that is inconsistent
with a customer’s usual pattern or activity.
   (C)   Suspicious documents. The city identifies the following Red Flags
concerning suspicious documents:
      (1)   Any identification document or card that appears to be forged,
altered or inauthentic;
      (2)   Any identification document or card on which a person’s photograph
or physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the
document;
      (3)   Any other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
      (4)   Any application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
   (D)   Suspicious personal identifying information. The city identifies the
following Red Flags concerning suspicious personal identifying information:
      (1)   Any identifying information that is presented that is inconsistent
with other information that the customer provides (such as inconsistent birth
dates);
      (2)   Any identifying information that is presented that is inconsistent
with other sources of information (such as an address that does not match the
address on a credit report);
      (3)   Any identifying information that is presented that is the same as
information shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
      (4)   Any identifying information that is presented that is consistent
with fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
      (5)   A social security number that is presented that is the same as one
given by another customer;
      (6)   An address or phone number that is presented that is the same as
that of another person;
      (7)   Any instance where a person fails to provide complete personal
identifying information on an application after being reminded to do so; and
      (8)   Any instance where a person’s identifying information is not
consistent with the information that is on file for that customer.
   (E)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account. The city
identifies the following Red Flags concerning suspicious account activity or an
unusual use of an account:
      (1)   A change of address for an account that is followed by a request to
change the account holder’s name;
      (2)   Any instance where payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-
to-date account;
      (3)   Any instance where an account is used in a way that is inconsistent
with its prior use (example: very high activity);
      (4)   Any instance where mail that was sent to the account holder is
repeatedly returned as undeliverable;
      (5)   Any instance where the city is notified that a customer is not
receiving mail that was sent by the city;
      (6)   Any notice to the city that an account has unauthorized activity;
      (7)   A breach of the city’s computer-system security; and
      (8)   Any unauthorized access to or use of customer-account information.
   (F)   Alerts from others. The city identifies it as a Red Flag if the city
receives notice from a customer, an identity theft victim, law enforcement or
other person that the city has opened or is maintaining a fraudulent account
for a person engaged in identity theft.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.023 DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts. In order to detect any of the Red Flags identified in §
38.022 that are associated with the opening of a new account, city personnel
must take the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person
opening the account:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, and a driver’s license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
and
      (4)   Independently contact the customer.
   (B)   Existing accounts. In order to detect any of the Red Flags identified
in §
38.022 that are associated with the operation of an existing account, city
personnel must take the following steps to monitor transactions with an
account:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile or via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of any requests to change a billing address;
and
      (3)   Verify any change in banking information that is given for billing
and payment purposes.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.024 PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   Prevention and mitigation. If city personnel detect any identified Red
Flag, then, depending on the degree of risk posed by that Red Flag, the
personnel must take one or more of the following steps:
      (1)   Continue to monitor the account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Refuse to open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (7)   Notify the Program Administrator for a determination of the
appropriate steps to take;
      (8)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (9)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protection of customer identifying information. In order to further
prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to city
accounts, the city must take the following steps with respect to its internal
operating procedures to protect customer identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Ensure the complete and secure destruction of paper documents and
computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (5)   Ensure computer virus protection is up-to-date; and
      (6)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for city purposes.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.025 PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Program Administrator. The City Administrator is the Program
Administrator and is responsible for the implementation and administration of
the Program, for ensuring appropriate training of city staff on the Program,
for reviewing any staff reports regarding the detection of Red Flags, and for
determining which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in
particular circumstances and considering periodic changes to the Program.
   (B)   Periodic updates.  
      (1)   This Program must be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect
changes in risks to customers and the soundness of the city from identity
theft.
      (2)   At least annually, the Program Administrator shall consider:
         (a)   The city’s experiences with identity theft;
         (b)   Changes in identity theft methods;
         (c)   Changes in methods for detecting and preventing identity theft;
         (d)   Changes in types of accounts that the city maintains; and
         (e)   Changes in the city’s business arrangements with other entities.
      (3)   After considering the factors under division (B)(2) above, the
Program Administrator must determine whether changes to the Program, including
the listing of Red Flags, are warranted. If changes are warranted, then the
Program Administrator must present the City Council with his or her recommended
changes, and the City Council shall determine whether to accept, modify or
reject those changes to the Program.
   (C)   Staff training and reports. The Program Administrator must train or
direct the training of all of the city staff who are responsible for
implementing the Program. This training must include the detection of Red Flags
and the responsive steps to be taken if a Red Flag is detected.
   (D)   Service provider arrangements. If the city engages a service provider
to perform an activity in connection with one or more accounts, then the city
shall take the following steps to ensure that the service provider performs its
activity in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent and mitigate identity theft:
      (1)   Require, by contract, that service providers have such policies and
procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract, that service providers review the Program and
report any Red Flags to the Program Administrator.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 38.026 PROCEDURES.
   The city Identity Theft Prevention Procedures are as follows:
   (A)   Rental program. Any resident moving into a rental property currently
must sign an occupancy permit, list all names of residents moving into the home
and provide a valid driver’s license upon the $50 deposit being paid before the
water is turned on in his or her name.
   (B)   New home purchase. The city does not currently require that any
identification be presented in order to put an account into the new home
owner’s name. The city feels it would be in the best interest of the city as
well as the resident to require the same type of identification for home
ownership as the city requires for rental. (This is a procedure the city feels
can be easily changed for the safety of all involved).
      (1)   When the city receives back a refund check from a final billing,
the city does not proceed with trying to find the prior resident. The city
feels that it is the prior resident’s responsibility to get in touch with the
city to receive his or her refund. If the refund check is not requested within
a 12-month period, the Auditor places this check on a list to be removed from
the payables and re-deposited into the payable fund.
      (2)   When a final bill is received back into the city’s office due to
(undeliverable, no forwarding address and the like), the city will try to find
a correct forwarding. If this is not possible for the city to find, the city
will set this account as a delinquent. If the customer tries to move back into
the city and open a new account, his or her name will come up as delinquent and
the city will not provide new service until the prior is financially taken care
of. The city’s procedure to pay closer attention to the numerous name changes
residents present to open/close accounts has improved with our new software
program as well as the rental program identification requirement to open a new
account.
      (3)   The removal of a name on an account due to divorce, death and the
like. When a resident calls to remove his or her name from an account due to
the above stated, the safest procedure that the city does not currently follow
would be the requirement of a document to change or delete the current name on
an account. When a divorce situation has happened, one spouse may call to take
his or her name off of the account in order to forward the responsibility of
usage to the other. Without a document showing that the home is the
responsibility of (one or the other), the city cannot confirm this to be the
correct information.
   (C)   Password.  A password should be changed once every year for entry into
the utility, cash receipting, accounts payable and general ledger software. A
scheduled time will be set to change in a timely manner to provide a safer work
zone for those permitted into each program.
      (1)   The server and the anti-virus programs that are currently in place
provide the needed safety measures to eliminate a breach into the software
installed throughout the city offices. A daily backup takes place at a
scheduled time seven days a week.
      (2)   The safe procedures the employees of the city follow to help
prevent identity theft can be improved upon in many ways with an ordinance and
guidelines in place.
(Ord. 2010-15, passed 9-7-2010)
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
§ 38.040 ADOPTION.
   (A)   Article 10 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, being ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this
section) is hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies, which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibit political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or re-hearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city.
(1986 Code, § 2-313) (Ord. 1999-17, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 2004-08, passed 5-3-
2004)
Statutory reference:
   Art. 10 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, see ILCS Ch. 5, Act
430, §§ 10-10 through 10-40
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS; WAGES
§ 38.055 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW; DETERMINATION OF PREVAILING WAGES.
   To the extent and as required by "The Prevailing Wage Act," the general
prevailing rate of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other
workers engaged in construction and maintenance of public works coming under
the jurisdiction of the city is hereby ascertained to be the same as the
prevailing rate of wages for construction and maintenance work in the Madison
County area as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
as of June 2015, a copy of that determination being attached hereto and
incorporated herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all
revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the
State of Illinois shall supersede the Department's June determination and apply
to any and all public works construction undertaken by the city. The definition
of any terms appearing in this subchapter which are also used in aforesaid Act
shall be the same as in said Act.
(1986 Code, § 2-191) (Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980; Ord. 1987-10, passed 6-15-
1987; Ord.1991-09, passed 5-20-1991; Ord. 2000-10, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2001-
14, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-2-
2003; Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2005-15, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2006-
18, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-
2008; Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2012-
06, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 2016-19, passed 6-6-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Wages of employees of public works, see ILCS Ch. 820, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.
as amended by Public Acts 86-799 and 86-693
§ 38.056 LIMITATION ON REQUIRED APPLICATION OF PREVAILING WAGES.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to apply the general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the city to the extent required by the aforesaid
Act.
(1986 Code, § 2-192) (Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980; Ord. 1987-10, passed 6-15-
1987; Ord. 1991-09, passed 5-20-1991; Ord. 2000-10, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2001-
14, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-2-
2003; Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2005-15, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2006-
18, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-
2008; Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2012-
06, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 38.057 AVAILABILITY OF WAGE DETERMINATION TO PUBLIC.
   The City shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the main office of the city this determination or any
revisions of the prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of
the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
(1986 Code, § 2-193) (Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980; Ord. 1987-10, passed 6-15-
1987; Ord. 1991-09, passed 5-20-1991; Ord. 2000-10, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2001-
14, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-2-
2003; Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2005-15, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2006-
18, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-
2008; Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2012-
06, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 38.058 MAILING COPIES OF PREVAILING WAGES TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   The city shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and to any
association of employers and to any person or association of employees who have
filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any determination stating
the particular rates and the particular class of workers whose wages will be
affected by those rates.
(1986 Code, § 2-194) (Ord. 1980-5, passed 6-16-1980; Ord. 1987-10, passed 6-15-
1987; Ord. 1991-09, passed 5-20-1991; Ord. 2000-10, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2001-
14, passed 6-4-2001; Ord. 2002-14, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 2003-12, passed 6-2-
2003; Ord. 2004-13, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2005-15, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 2006-
18, passed 6-5-2006; Ord. 2007-12, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 2008-08, passed 6-2-
2008; Ord. 2009-14, passed 6-15-2009; Ord. 2010-13, passed 6-7-2010; Ord. 2012-
06, passed 6-18-2012)
POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1
 
Notes
  1   This policy was drafted using the Illinois Department of Human Rights
  Sexual Harassment Model Policy and has been modified to conform to Public Act
1 100-0554.
     The provisions of this policy will apply only insofar as they do not
  conflict with any state or federal law
§ 38.070 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The
courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under
Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons
have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of City of Troy to prohibit harassment
of any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 38.071 DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      (2)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises.
      (3)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
       (4)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      (5)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person”.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 38.072 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or administrator, or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside municipality. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2018-20, passed 11-5-2018)
§ 38.073 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 15-10)
provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs
in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (ILCS Ch. 740, Act 174, § 15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or federal
law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an
employee for disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency,
where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information
discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (ILCS Ch.
740, Act 174, § 15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (ILCS Ch. 775, Act 5, § 6-
101), it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge - either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 38.074 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or
the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, State law or Federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 38.075 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 2017-26, passed 12-4-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
51.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Prohibited deposits generally
   
50.003   Combustible waste material
   
50.004   Windblown waste material
   
50.005   Burning waste material
   
50.006   Grass and grass clippings
   
50.007   Placing waste material in container of another person
   
50.008   Waste material from industrial processes
   
50.009   Parking or standing of hauling trucks
   
50.010   Prima facie evidence of violations
Litter Control
   
50.025   Dumping or depositing of litter prohibited; exemptions
   
50.026   Dumping or depositing litter from motor vehicle prohibited
   
50.027   Presumption of violation by operator throwing litter from motor
vehicle
   
50.028   Accumulation of litter prohibited
   
50.029   Receptacles required in public areas
   
50.030   Power of court to order removal of litter
Open Burning
   
50.045   Open burning prohibited
   
50.046   Exceptions
   
50.047   Authorization required for burning on construction or demolition sites
   
50.048   Constant attention to open fires required
   
50.049   Garden hose or fire extinguishment devices required
 
   
50.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
70.40 through
70.44
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 91; §
131.15
Statutory reference:
   Litter Control Act, see ILCS Ch. 415, Act 105, § 1
   Power of city to provide for disposal of refuse, garbage and ashes, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-9-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and landscape wastes.
   CONTAINER. Any receptacle for the storage or disposal of any waste material
of any kind, including but not limited to trash cans, ash cans, plastic bags,
barrels or dumpsters.
   GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food and waste from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE.  Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings and crop residues.
   LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER may
include but is not limited to any garbage, trash, refuse, cigarettes, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste; newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging construction
material, abandoned vehicle as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-101.05,
motor vehicle parts, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or
offensive matter of any kind; any object likely to injure any person or create
a traffic hazard; or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature, which
has been discarded, abandoned or otherwise disposed of improperly, ILCS Ch.
415, Act 105, § 3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  As defined in Title VII of this code.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   PROPERTY HELD OUT TO THE PUBLIC FOR THE TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS. Means but
is not limited to commercially operated parks, campgrounds, drive-in
restaurants, automobile service stations, business parking lots, car washes,
shopping centers, marinas, boat launching areas, industrial parking lots, boat
moorage and fueling stations, piers, beaches and bathing areas, airports,
roadside rest stops, drive-in movies and shopping malls; and includes but is
not limited to any property that is publicly owned or operated for any of the
foregoing purposes but excludes state highway rights-of-way and rest areas
located thereon.
   REFUSE. Includes both garbage and rubbish, and any waste material not
classified as either garbage or rubbish.
   RESTRICTED AREAS. The area with the boundaries of the city, unless the area
is 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas.
   RUBBISH. Combustible trash, including but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash, including but not limited to metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral wastes; street rubbish, including but not limited to
street sweeping, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt and contents of litter
receptacles. RUBBISH shall not include earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid waste resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing waste, boiler
house centers, lumber, scraps and shavings.
   WASTE MATERIAL. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, landscape waste and construction
waste, collectively or individually.
(1986 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2010-17, passed 12-
20-2010; Ord. 2022-42, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 50.002 PROHIBITED DEPOSITS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any person to
place, deposit, store or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, rubbish,
refuse or other objectionable waste.
(1986 Code, § 11-2) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.003 COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible waste material in
such a way as to create a fire hazard.
(1986 Code, § 11-3) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.004 WINDBLOWN WASTE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful to place refuse, garbage or rubbish in such a manner as
to allow the same to be blown by the wind onto the property of other persons.
(1986 Code, § 11-4) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.005 BURNING WASTE MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any waste material, leaves or
other substances upon any of the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, curbs or
gutters in the city.
(1986 Code, § 11-5) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.006 GRASS AND GRASS CLIPPINGS.
   It shall be illegal to blow and/or leave mowed grass and/or grass clippings
on the street(s).
(2010-17, passed 12-20-2010) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007 PLACING WASTE MATERIAL IN CONTAINER OF ANOTHER PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place any waste material in any
container located on property other than his or her own.
(1986 Code, § 11-6) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.008 WASTE MATERIAL FROM INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent or regulate the hauling
of waste material from industrial processes, from construction projects or
other matter not normally collected on a regular schedule, and haulers of waste
material, not normally collected in regular collections, shall be excused from
the requirements of obtaining a private collector’s license provided for in
this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 11-7) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.009 PARKING OR STANDING OF HAULING TRUCKS.
   No truck carrying waste material shall be parked or be permitted to stand
anywhere in the city longer than is necessary to pick up containers and empty
the same into the truck; provided, that the standing of the vehicle made
necessary by mechanical trouble, traffic conditions, accident or obedience to
the direction of police officer or traffic signals, should not be considered a
violation of this section.
(1986 Code, § 11-8) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see also
Ch. 72
§ 50.010 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF VIOLATIONS.
   The fact that waste material remains on an occupant’s premises in the city
shall be prima facie evidence that the occupant of the premises is responsible
for any violation of this code or other ordinance prohibiting the same.
(1986 Code, § 11-9) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
LITTER CONTROL
§ 50.025 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF LITTER PROHIBITED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or
permit the dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of
litter upon any public or private property in this city unless:
      (1)   The property has been designated by the city or any of its agencies
for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that property in
accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State Pollution
Control Board;
      (2)   The litter is placed into a container intended by the owner or
tenant in lawful possession of that property for the deposit of litter;
      (3)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or unless the act is done under the personal direction of the owner
or tenant and does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance or a fire hazard;
      (4)   The person is acting pursuant to special cleanup days established
by the City Council of Trustees; and/or
      (5)   The person is lawfully acting in or reacting to an emergency
situation where health and safety is threatened, and removes and properly
disposes of any litter when the emergency situation no longer exists.
(1986 Code, § 11-81)
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined as
set forth in § 50.999.
(Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 DUMPING OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard or otherwise dispose of
litter from any motor vehicle upon any public highway, upon any public or
private property or upon or into any river, lake, pond, stream or body of water
in this city except as permitted under §
50.025(A)(1) through (A)(5) of this subchapter. No person shall transport, by
any means, garbage or refuse from any dwelling, residence, place of business,
farm or other site to and deposit the material in, around or on top of
containers placed along public highways or at roadside rest areas.
(1986 Code, § 11-82) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.027 PRESUMPTION OF VIOLATION BY OPERATOR THROWING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   Whenever litter is thrown, deposited, dropped or dumped from any motor
vehicle not carrying passengers for hire, the presumption is created that the
operator of that motor vehicle has violated §
50.026, but that presumption may be rebutted.
(1986 Code, § 11-83) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.028 ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow litter to accumulate upon real property, of which the
person charged is the owner or tenant in control, in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance or in such a manner that the litter may be blown
or otherwise carried by the natural elements on to the real property of another
person.
(1986 Code, § 11-84) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.029 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   In order to assist the public in complying with this subchapter, the
owner or person in control of any property which is held out to the public as a
place for assemblage, the transaction of business, recreation or as a public
way shall cause to be placed and maintained containers for the deposit of
litter of sufficient volume and in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of the
numbers of people customarily coming on or using the property.
   (B)   If no litter containers are placed on property held out to the public
for the transaction of business, the owner or person in control of the property
shall be fined $100 for violating division (A) of this section. If the owner or
person in control of the property has placed litter containers on his or her
property but the number or size of the containers has proved inadequate to meet
the needs of the numbers of people coming on or using his or her property as
indicated by the condition and appearance of that property, and the owners or
person in control has failed to provide sufficient or adequate containers
within ten days after being made aware of that fact by written notice from the
police, he or she shall be fined $25 for each receptacle not so provided and
maintained.
(1986 Code, § 11-85) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.030 POWER OF COURT TO ORDER REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   The penalties prescribed in this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu
of any penalties, rights, remedies, duties or liabilities which may be
otherwise imposed or conferred by a court, including but not limited to the
issuance of any order requiring the removal of litter and prevention of future
violations.
(1986 Code, § 11-87) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
OPEN BURNING
§ 50.045 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in §
50.046.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
container, unless the container is designed for the purpose of disposing of the
class of refuse being burned.
(1986 Code, § 11-100) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2020-22, passed 10-
5-2020; Ord. 2022- 42, passed 10-3-2022) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this subchapter unless they
cause air pollution as defined in state statutes or regulations of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (A)   Agricultural waste. The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      (1)   On the premises on which the waste is generated;
      (2)   In areas other than restricted areas;
      (3)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
      (4)   If the burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
      (5)   More than 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas; and
      (6)   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   (B)   Counter fire. The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires,
when reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government
official.
   (C)   Burning of fuel. The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire and
cooking purposes, or in domestic fireplaces or firepits, in areas where the
burning is consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned
in those cases.
   (D)   Waste gases. The burning of waste gases, provided that in the case of
refineries all flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable
devices to reduce pollution.
   (E)   Small open flames. Small open flames for heating tar, welding,
acetylene torches, highway safety flares and the like.
   (F)   Residential recreational fireplaces, firepits and bonfires. The
burning of woods, gas and fuels for legitimate residential fireplaces, firepits
and campfires, as well as for cooking purposes, in areas where the burning is
consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage; grass clippings, leaves,
landscaping waste, refuse or construction materials shall be burned in those
cases. Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet of a structure
of combustible material. Conditions which could cause a fire to spread within
25 feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
   (G)   Landscape waste; the burning of landscape waste.
      (1)   Outdoor burning shall be allowed only between dawn and dusk on
Wednesdays and Saturdays. Burning must occur in containers located not less
than 20 feet, or 50 feet if not contained, from any building or structure on
private property only and be supervised at all times; except that the city may
conduct outdoor leaf burning which shall be supervised by an officer or
employee of the city and in compliance with the requirements set forth herein.
      (2)   Outdoor burning shall include only landscape waste, which excludes
grass and grass clippings, and shall further exclude burning of any trash,
garbage, other disposables or any other materials of any nature whatsoever.
      (3)   Outdoor leaf burning which is permitted under this subchapter may
be prohibited at any time when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances
make such fires hazardous. The appropriate city official, Mayor or Chief of
Police of the city or representative of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, shall determine such conditions or circumstances.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to burn landscape waste, or any other items,
upon city streets or sidewalks.
   (H)   Recreational bonfires.
      (1)   Any person or organization may burn landscape waste and other wood
fuels outdoors as a part of an organized activity provided that not less than
seven days prior to the activity, the organizer of the activity notifies the
Chief of Police in such form as the Chief of Police may reasonably determine,
of the date and time, location and purpose of the activity.
      (2)   Outdoor burning pursuant to this division (H) shall be allowed only
between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. in a location not less than 50
feet from any building or structure on the property where the outdoor burning
is to be conducted.
      (3)   The Mayor, Chief of Police or their respective designees may order
the extinguishment of any outdoor burning pursuant to this division (H) when,
in the opinion of the official, continuation of the outdoor burning constitutes
a threat to persons or property or jeopardizes the health, safety and welfare
of the public, any participant in the organized activity or any other person.
(1986 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2010-17, passed 12-
20-2010; Ord. 2020-22, passed 10-5-2020; Ord. 2022-42, passed 10-3-2022)
§ 50.047 AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED FOR BURNING ON CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION
SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without proper advance authorization by the Chief of
Police.
(1986 Code, § 11-102) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.048 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less than
18 years of age.
(1986 Code, § 11-103) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.049 GARDEN HOSE OR FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A hose connected to an adequate water supply or other fire extinguishment
equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of any open fires.
(1986 Code, § 11-104) (Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
50.025 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500.
(1986 Code, § 11-81)
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
50.025 through
50.030 shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500.
(1986 Code, § 11-86)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
50.045 through
50.049 for which another penalty is not provided shall be fined not more than
$750, plus court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, for each offense. Each
day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Violations of §§
50.045 through
50.047 shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
 
First   $75
offense
Second  Not less than $150 and up to $750 plus court costs and reasonable attorneys’
offense fees if a hearing is sought and attended by the attorney acting on behalf of
        the city
 
      (3)   To avoid prosecution for a first or second offense under these
sections, a violator may within ten days of receiving a citation settle the
citation by payment of two-thirds of the specified fine at the City Hall. The
Chief of Police is hereby authorized and directed to cease prosecution of any
citation so settled.
(1986 Code, § 11-105)
(Ord. 1998-08, passed 4-20-1998; Ord. 2010-17, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2020-22,
passed 10-5-2020; Ord. 2022-42, passed 10-3-2022)
CHAPTER 51: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Contractual effect of provisions
   
51.02   Disclaimer of liability
   
51.03   Service outside the city
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.15   Duty of Director of Public Works to enforce provisions
   
51.16   Supervisory powers of Director of Public Works
   
51.17   Lien for nonpayment
   
51.18   Violations of this chapter and
Chapters 52 and
53
   
51.19   Conversion of recyclable metals
Cross-reference:
   Director of Public Works, see §
32.125
   Plumbing, see §
151.130
   Public Works Committee, see §
31.13
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations
concerning the use of the facilities of the city water distribution and sewage
collection and treatment systems shall be a part of the contract with every
consumer, and every consumer shall be considered to use the services from the
city subject thereto and shall be bound thereby.
(1986 Code, § 20-1)
§ 51.02 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The city shall not be held responsible for or in any way liable to any
person for any claim for damage, either direct or indirect, because of any
shortage of water supply, any shutoff of water supply for any reason, any
breaking or leakage of either the consumer’s or the city’s water or sewer
mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity of water supply, any fire
or water damage or any backup in the city sewers.
   (B)   The city will not insure or be responsible in any manner for any
losses or damages, direct or indirect, or resultant by reason of any fire, and
all water and sewer service furnished shall be conditional upon acts of God,
inevitable accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within
the reasonable control of the city.
(1986 Code, § 20-2)
§ 51.03 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   (A)   No water or sewer service shall be provided to an applicant outside
the corporate limits of the city unless the applicant petitions for annexation
to the city, or if the applicant cannot annex to the city pursuant to law, that
the applicant must execute a pre-annexation agreement with the city.
   (B)   In addition to any other provisions that may be contained in the pre-
annexation agreement, the agreement must provide for the annexation of the
property to the city and must further provide, in those instances where the
applicant desires water service to more than one single-family residential
unit, that the applicant demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the city, that the
proposed land use for which water is desired, is in conformity with the
regional land use plans currently used and adopted by the city.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if the water customer's
(owner's) property is unincorporated, but is contiguous to the city's corporate
limits, water service shall only be provided and continued by the city upon the
annexation of such property to the city. If the water customer's (owner's)
property is unincorporated and is not contiguous to the city's corporate
limits, water service may only be provided and continued to the property upon
the owner's submission to the city of an irrevocable petition to annex the
property to the city, along with all other requested information pertaining to
the property. The annexation of the property to the city would occur at such
time as the property becomes contiguous to the city's corporate limits.
(Ord. 2021-22, passed 9-7-2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.15 DUTY OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the operation and
maintenance of the city water distribution and sewage collection and treatment
systems and shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
Chapters 52 and
53.
(1986 Code, § 20-16) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 51.16 SUPERVISORY POWERS OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   All officers or employees assigned to duties under this chapter and
Chapters 52 and
53 shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision
of the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 20-17) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 51.17 LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   A lien may be filed whenever a bill for water or sewer service is
unpaid, industrial cost recovery is unpaid, damage or cleanup costs associated
with spills, cross-connection violations, or other violations of this chapter
are unpaid, or if any costs of remedy or recovery to the potable water supply,
potable water supply system or sewer system remain unpaid. In addition to the
direct costs associated with the cleanup, recovery or remedy, the amount
claimed in the lien may include attorney fees, engineering fees, other
professional fees, wages paid to city employees and contractors, and use of the
equipment of the city or its contractors. The City Administrator shall file
with the County Recorder a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain a statement describing the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien for the amount stated as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. The lien may be
filed against the owners of the property, including but not limited to owners
of the fee simple, beneficial owners of a land trust, purchasers under an
installment contract and lessees.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall mail or otherwise serve a copy of the
notice of lien to the owners of the property and all interested persons. The
failure to mail this notice shall not affect the right to foreclose upon the
lien.
   (C)   The city may foreclose upon the lien in the manner provided for by
law. The proceeds from the sale of the property shall be applied to pay the
costs and attorney fees associated with the unpaid bills and the foreclosure,
and the amount of the unpaid bill.
   (D)   The remedies in this section are cumulative to any other remedy
provided by law or ordinance. In the event a statute mandates a period of time
before an action can be taken or a procedure to be followed, the requirements
of the statute shall control. This section shall apply to any charge or bill
authorized or imposed by this chapter and
Chapters 52 and
53.
(1986 Code, § 20-18) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 51.18 VIOLATIONS OF THIS CHAPTER AND CHAPTERS 52 AND 53.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by
the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease the
violation.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limits
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be subject to the penalty
prescribed in §
10.99.
   (C)   Any person who intentionally or knowingly violates the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in §
10.99 notwithstanding the lack of notice described in division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   Any violation which shall continue beyond the time limits provided for
in division (A) of this section is declared to be a nuisance for which
injunctive relief is appropriate from the Circuit Court.
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition to the fine or other remedies provided, become liable to the city for
the costs and expenses incurred to abate the violation, whether the costs or
expenses were incurred before or after the notice.
(1986 Code, § 20-19) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 51.19 CONVERSION OF RECYCLABLE METALS.
   The Public Works Department is authorized to convert recyclable metals into
funds for use by the City of Troy, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-76-4,
of the Illinois Complied Statutes, under the direction of the Director of
Public Works.
(Ord. 2014-20, passed 10-20-2014)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   General authority over use and maintenance of water system
   
52.002   Compliance with subchapter provisions; discontinuance of service for
noncompliance
   
52.003   Notice and hearing for violations
   
52.004   Application to persons outside of city
   
52.005   Right of entry for inspections
   
52.006   Complaints regarding water system
   
52.007   Defective equipment to be corrected by owner; correction by city
   
52.008   Electric ground wires prohibited
   
52.009   Requests to shut off or turn on water; fee
   
52.010   Right of city to shut off water for repairs and the like; procedure
   
52.011   Curb cocks and similar devices prohibited
   
52.012   Interfering with water system
   
52.013   Installation of line from main to meter; responsibility for repairs;
inspections; liability
   
52.014   When extensions of mains and improvements are to be paid by users
   
52.015   Specifications for mains, valves and the like
   
52.016   Size of water lines
   
52.017   Ownership, maintenance of fire hydrants and the like; liability; use
   
52.018   Industrial users to be restricted to supply to reserve tanks
   
52.019   Use of groundwater as a potable water supply prohibited
Cross-Connections
   
52.030   Purposes of subchapter
   
52.031   Definitions
   
52.032   Water systems
   
52.033   Surveys and investigations
   
52.034   Rules and regulations
   
52.035   Offenses
   
52.036   Remedies of the city and penalties for violation
Connections
   
52.050   Application
   
52.051   Installation order; installation; return of order
   
52.052   Records to be kept
   
52.053   Cost
   
52.054   Separate connections
   
52.055   Nonpayment of charges
   
52.056   Standards adopted
Rates and Meters
   
52.070   Meters required
   
52.071   Accessibility of meters
   
52.072   Meter installation required prior to water service
   
52.073   Meters and other equipment to be open to inspection
   
52.074   Remote readers; when required; discontinuance of service
   
52.075   Meter reading conclusive; exception for defective meters
   
52.076   Test of meters
   
52.077   Separate meters required; exception
   
52.078   Mobile home parks
   
52.079   Meters damaged by consumer
   
52.080   Deposits
   
52.081   Rates
   
52.082   Billing periods
   
52.083   Duty of city to install and read meters; use as basis for billing
   
52.084   Failure to pay bill
   
52.085   Service charges on delinquent accounts
   
52.086   Returned checks
Subdivisions
   
52.120   Definition
   
52.121   Provisions, charges cumulative
   
52.122   Availability of water condition to permitting connection
Private Fire Protection Equipment
   
52.135   Map to be furnished to city prior to installation
   
52.136   Approval by city
   
52.137   Disclaimer of liability
   
52.138   Use restricted to owners or consumers
   
52.139   Restrictions on use of equipment
   
52.140   Tests and inspections; remedial action
   
52.141   Gate valves
   
52.142   Fire District connections
   
52.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
   Plumbing, see also §
151.130
   Pollution of water declared a nuisance, see §
131.15
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 GENERAL AUTHORITY OVER USE AND MAINTENANCE OF WATER SYSTEM.
   The city shall have the right to demand, change or stop the use of city
water or to require any repair, change, removal or improvement of any pipe,
fixture, plumbing or other apparatus that in any manner affects the water
supply system of the city or the supply or fixtures of other consumers of city
water.
(1986 Code, § 20-31)
§ 52.002 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR
NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If any person fails to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter,
the city shall notify the person of the failure. If the person in violation of
this subchapter does not remedy the same within a reasonable time, the city
shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in case of nonpayment,
emergency, necessity or as otherwise provided, the city will not discontinue
service for violation of any provision of this subchapter until seven days
after notice has been given and the violation has not been remedied.
(1986 Code, § 20-32)
§ 52.003 NOTICE AND HEARING FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any violation of this subchapter shall occur, the city shall give
the violator seven-days’ notice of the termination of the water supply and the
disconnection from the water system. If the violator is the owner of a
subdivision and other homes are being served therein by the city, all residents
therein shall likewise receive a seven-day notice of the termination of the
water supply and the disconnection from the water system. The notice may be
sent by certified mail.
   (B)   Within the seven-day period set forth in division (A) of this section,
the violator and residents within the subdivision, if any, may request a
hearing with the City Council, and the Mayor is hereby authorized to set a date
for the hearing within 15 days from the date of notice referred to in division
(A) of this section. The notice of hearing shall be given by certified mail to
all persons interested, including the members of the City Council. The
termination by the City Council shall be final, and the decision of the City
Council shall be forwarded to all interested persons within five days after the
date of the hearing.
(1986 Code, § 20-33)
§ 52.004 APPLICATION TO PERSONS OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   Any person owning real estate located outside of the city who desires to
obtain water from the city shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-34)
§ 52.005 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTIONS.
   The city shall have access to all portions of the premises of any water
consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of water, the
consumer’s pipes, fixtures, plumbing or other apparatus in any manner connected
to the city water system.
(1986 Code, § 20-35)
§ 52.006 COMPLAINTS REGARDING WATER SYSTEM.
   All questions and complaints regarding the city water system shall be made
promptly to the office of the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 20-36) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 52.007 DEFECTIVE EQUIPMENT TO BE CORRECTED BY OWNER; CORRECTION BY CITY.
   Standpipes, hydrants, gate valves and any other apparatus that cause water
hammer or any danger to the water system or to the plumbing of other customers
of the city water system shall be immediately repaired or removed upon notice
from the city, or at its option the city may immediately discontinue or refuse
service, without notice and without any liability for direct or resulting
damages therefrom.
(1986 Code, § 20-37)
§ 52.008 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach any electric ground wire to
any plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water service
pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the city. The city shall hold the
owner of the premises liable for any damage to property or injury to any
employee of the city caused by the ground wire. All owners and consumers shall
remove any existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the city,
and if the wires are not disconnected within five days of the notice, the city
may enter the premises and remove the ground wires, and the consumer shall pay
the costs thereof.
(1986 Code, § 20-38) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.009 REQUESTS TO SHUT OFF OR TURN ON WATER; FEE.
   If any person requests the city shut off or turn on water for the
convenience of the person, then a fee established by the City Council shall be
paid for each trip required by the city, plus the cost of any water that may be
used or wasted in connection therewith.
(1986 Code, § 20-41)
§ 52.010 RIGHT OF CITY TO SHUT OFF WATER FOR REPAIRS AND THE LIKE; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of water whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce the provisions of this
chapter and other ordinances or regulations or for any operating reason. In all
cases, if possible, reasonable notice as circumstances allow will be given to
consumers, but in emergencies the water may be shut off without notice. All hot
water faucets shall be left open during any shutoff to prevent damage to
plumbing. Such necessary work will be done as rapidly as practicable and
whenever feasible at such times as will cause the least inconvenience.
   (B)   Whenever any water mains, pipes and service connections are taken up,
shut off or interfered with by reason of any street improvements, the city will
endeavor to maintain service so far as reasonably possible.
(1986 Code, § 20-42)
§ 52.011 CURB COCKS AND SIMILAR DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   The use of any curb cocks, meter service cocks or any gate valve in a street
belonging to the city to shut off or turn on the city water supply is
prohibited. No person shall make any connection, addition or changes to any
main or pipe belonging to the city.
(1986 Code, § 20-39)
§ 52.012 INTERFERING WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break the seal of any meter or in any
manner to make any alterations, changes or repairs on any water meter, or to
open any mains, laterals, service pipes, stop cocks, hydrants or valves, or
otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work on either or any of them
without authority given by the City Council or the Public Works Committee. Any
person who shall violate any provisions of this section, or who shall wilfully
or maliciously injure or damage any property connected with the city water
system shall be subject to the penalty prescribed in §
52.999.
(1986 Code, § 20-43) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.013 INSTALLATION OF LINE FROM MAIN TO METER; RESPONSIBILITY FOR REPAIRS;
INSPECTIONS; LIABILITY.
   (A)   The consumer shall install and maintain in good condition the water
pipe, fixtures and plumbing on his or her premises and extending to the city
service connection at the curb line. No employee of the city shall make any
repairs or do any work on the consumer’s water pipe, fixtures or plumbing.
   (B)   The city will inspect and advise, upon request, as to needed repairs,
changes or additions to the consumer’s water pipe, fixtures or plumbing,
without charge.
   (C)   The city shall not be held responsible or liable for any partial or
entire stoppage of water flow, leakage, or any damage or damages, whether
direct or resultant, to a consumer’s water pipe, fixtures or plumbing for any
reason whatsoever.
(1986 Code, § 20-44)
§ 52.014 WHEN EXTENSIONS OF MAINS AND IMPROVEMENTS ARE TO BE PAID BY USERS.
   Upon application of any person for the extension of water mains or other
improvements when the city does not have sufficient funds at its disposal to
make the same, or whenever the extension or improvement in the discretion of
the City Council would not be possible, or if possible, would not be beneficial
to the city, the entire cost shall be advanced by the parties interested. Any
such extensions and improvements in all other respects shall be deemed the
property of the city as a part of the city water distribution system, upon
issuance of an operator’s permit by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
(1986 Code, § 20-45)
§ 52.015 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAINS, VALVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All water mains shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   They shall have minimum diameters of six inches.
      (2)   They shall have 48-inch covers.
      (3)   They shall be installed with a tracer wire.
   (B)   The two types of water main pipes which shall be acceptable are:
      (1)   Ductile iron pipe; and
      (2)   Plastic SDR 21.
   (C)   Water main valves shall be approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   All water mains and accessories shall be installed according to the
IEPA and AWWA standards.
(1986 Code, § 20-46) (Ord. 1985-3, passed 1-21-1985; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-
2007)
§ 52.016 SIZE OF WATER LINES.
   All water lines laid in any commercial or industrial area shall have a
diameter of at least 12 inches unless the City Council specifies otherwise. All
extensions of water lines previously laid in any commercial or industrial area
shall have a diameter of at least 12 inches unless the City Council specifies
otherwise.
(1986 Code, § 20-46.1) (Ord. 1985-3, passed 1-21-1985)
§ 52.017 OWNERSHIP, MAINTENANCE OF FIRE HYDRANTS AND THE LIKE; LIABILITY; USE.
   (A)   All public fire hydrants with gate valves, tees and connections from
the main, inside the city limits, shall be owned, maintained and used only by
the city, which shall be solely responsible for the same.
   (B)   The city shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant or the pressure or amount
of water obtainable therefrom, or for any damage as a direct result because of
the condition, pressure or amount of water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside of the city limits will be maintained
in as good order as reasonably possible, but the city will not undertake or
assume any responsibility or liability for their condition, use or abuse.
   (D)   Public fire hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of
extinguishing fires except when the city issues a special permit for other use.
(1986 Code, § 20-47)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
§ 52.018 INDUSTRIAL USERS TO BE RESTRICTED TO SUPPLY TO RESERVE TANKS.
   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants or other industrial uses
shall not be furnished by direct pressure from the city water mains, but only
to tanks holding an ample reserve supply of water.
(1986 Code, § 20-48)
§ 52.019 USE OF GROUNDWATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
   (B)   Prohibition. On or after the effective date of this section, the use
or attempt to use as a potable water supply groundwater from within the area
described and depicted in Ordinance 2021-36 as the Restricted Groundwater Zone
within the corporate limits of the city by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly
includes the City of Troy.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
(Ord. 2021-36, passed 12-20-2021)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 52.030 PURPOSES OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purposes of this subchapter include:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
nonpotable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety;
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems; and
   (D)   To provide for continued developments in the law. References within
this subchapter to statutes, rules or regulations shall include the present
version of the statutes.
(Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 52.031 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Meeting the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERS may include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from sources such as wells,
lakes or streams, process fluids or used water. These waters may be polluted or
contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or system over which
the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM from the property line inward.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard according to standards
adopted by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
      (1)   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water
system is physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
      (2)   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an
unknown substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a
safe potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD.  Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life, according to standards adopted by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890.
   NONPOTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Illinois Administrative Code 604.
   PLUMBING.  The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of the building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to
constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 604 for drinking, culinary and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use by the City Water Department.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than supply pressure.
The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the
device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system. The SURVEY must be in written form, and should
not be an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD.  A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER.  Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The City of Troy, Illinois.
(1986 Code, § 20-52) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994)
§ 52.032 WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The water systems shall consist of two parts, being the city’s water
supply system extending to the customer’s property line, and the consumer’s
water system extending from the customer’s property line inward.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Director of Public Works up to
the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
from the consumer’s property line inward to points of use.
(1986 Code, § 20-53) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 52.033 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Director of the Public Works Department, or his or her authorized
designee, shall have the right of entry to conduct surveys or inspections as he
or she deems necessary to discover or verify information relating to
connections made to the city’s water distribution system, including the
discovery or verification of any violation of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-54) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 52.034 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where protection is required.
      (1)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the agency’s regulations 35 Illinois Administrative
Code 680. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be
installed on each service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises
where, in the judgment of the Director of the Public Works Department, actual
or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
      (2)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where one or more of
the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless the auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Director of the Public Works
Department and the source is approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency;
         (b)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Director of the Public Works Department;
         (c)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment
of the Director of the Public Works Department, are not correctable or
intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether
or not cross-connections exist;
         (d)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey; or
         (e)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or reestablished.
      (3)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections
to the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890 and the agency’s regulations, 35 Illinois
Administrative Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention device
shall be installed on each service line to a consumer’s water system serving,
but not necessarily limited to the following types of facilities unless the
Director of the Public Works Department determines that no actual or potential
hazard to the public water system exists:
         (a)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
         (b)   Laboratories;
         (c)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
         (d)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or stormwater
pumping stations;
         (e)   Food or beverage processing plants;
         (f)   Chemical plants;
         (g)   Metal plating industries;
         (h)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
         (i)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
         (j)   Car washes;
         (k)   Pesticide or herbicide or extermination plants and trucks; and
         (l)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   (B)   Type of protection required.
      (1)   The type of protection required under this subchapter shall depend
on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
         (a)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
         (b)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that
could cause a system or health hazard.
         (c)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
      (2)   The type of protection required under this subchapter shall be an
approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow device.
      (3)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used
for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply
when:
         (a)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or
other chemicals;
         (b)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
         (c)   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source;
         (d)   Water can be pumped into the fire safety system from any other
source; or
         (e)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced
into the fire safety system.
      (4)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices.
      (1)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules
and regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control of the University of Southern California, American Water
Works Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American
National Standards Institute or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation
to be in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
      (2)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer
of the device shall be performed. Manufacturer’s maintenance manual shall be
available on site.
   (D)   Inspection and maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which
backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspection, tests, maintenance and repair made in accordance with the following
schedule, or more often where inspections indicate a need or are specified in
manufacturer’s instructions.
         (a)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
         (b)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
         (c)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall
be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently
if recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
      (2)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
      (3)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of most
recent test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
      (4)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
         (a)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
         (b)   Name and approval number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
         (c)   Test results;
         (d)   Repairs or servicing required;
         (e)   Repairs and date completed; and
         (f)   Servicing performed and date completed.
      (5)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations
are found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of
the consumer without delay as per division (D)(1)(a) of this section.
      (6)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made
inoperative, removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific
authorization by the Director of the Public Works Department.
   (E)   Booster pumps.
      (1)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, the pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cutoff device in proper working order and to certify to the Director
of the Public Works Department, at least once a year, that the device is
operable.
   (F)   Installations to conform to law.  All plumbing installed within the
city shall be installed in conformance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency regulations and this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-55) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 52.035 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Cross-connections prohibited.
      (1)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
      (2)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality, as determined by inspection and analysis
by the Agency.
      (3)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
   (B)   Backflow prevention device.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person or owner or custodian of property
within the city to fail to install a backflow prevention device upon order of
the Director of Public Works, or to remove the device, once it is installed,
without the consent of the Director.
      (2)   If the Director of Public Works or his or her designee determines
in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, the Environmental Protection
Agency or this subchapter, that the installation of a backflow prevention
device is necessary for the protection of the public water supply, he or she
shall give written notice of that fact to the owner or custodian of property to
install the device within a time period specified in the notice. Failure to
comply with the notice shall constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Permit required.  No person, owner or custodian of property shall
establish or permit any connection to be made to the city public water system
without having first obtained a permit issued by the city.
(1986 Code, § 20-56) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-2007) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.036 REMEDIES OF THE CITY AND PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Disconnection of water supply.
      (1)   If the Director of Public Works or his or her designee determines
that the public water system is being contaminated, he or she shall have the
power to shut off the supply of public water to the offending premises after
giving written notice to the owner or custodian of the property and an
opportunity to be heard in his or her defense. If the Director determines that
the contamination creates an immediate threat to the health of persons using
the public water supply system, he or she may immediately and without notice
disconnect the water supply and immediately thereafter give written notice to
the owner or custodian of the property affording him or her an opportunity to
be heard within 24 hours if the 24 hours falls on a regular weekday, or on the
following Monday if it falls on a weekend.
      (2)   Neither the Director nor his or her designee shall be liable to any
customer for any injury or damage that may result from the disconnection of the
water supply.
      (3)   Water service shall not be restored until the owner or custodian of
the property has corrected or eliminated the condition or defect and the public
water supply system has been inspected and the correction approved by the
Director of Public Works or his or her designee.
   (B)   Costs of correction and cleanup. The owner or custodian of the
property shall bear the cost of correction and cleanup of the potable water
supply.
   (C)   Reinstatement of service. If service is disconnected, it shall not be
restored unless a reinstatement fee of $100 has been paid and adequate
provisions have been made for the payment of costs, fines and expenses of
abatement or cleanup.
   (D)   Abatement.
      (1)   If the Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall
determine that there is no immediate danger to the health of persons using the
public water supply system, he or she shall give the owner or custodian of the
property written notice of the violation and a reasonable time to correct it.
      (2)   If the owner or custodian fails or refuses to correct the
violation, the Director or his or her designee shall make the connection, in
which event the costs thereof plus the cost of cleanup of the potable water
supply shall be a lien upon the property pursuant to §§
51.17 and
51.18.
   (E)   Fine. Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be fined as set forth in §
52.999. This penalty may be invoked as an alternative to, or as an addition to,
any other penalties provided for in §§
51.17 and
51.18.
(1986 Code, § 20-57) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-2007)
CONNECTIONS
§ 52.050 APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to make a water tap or service connection with the city
water system shall file a written application therefor in the office of the
Public Works Department upon blanks provided for that purpose. The application
shall be signed by the owner of the property for which the tap or service
connection is desired or his or her authorized agent. The application shall be
accompanied by payment of the fee authorized by §
52.053 to cover the cost of the service connection and meter. If the
application is made by an agent for the owner, then the application shall also
be accompanied by the written authority of the owner to the agent for the
making of the application.
(1986 Code, § 20-61)
§ 52.051 INSTALLATION ORDER; INSTALLATION; RETURN OF ORDER.
   Upon the filing of an application required by §
52.050 and payment of the prescribed fee, an order for the installation of the
meter and service connections shall be issued by the officer or employee of the
city whose duty it shall be to make the installation and connection based upon
the work schedule set by the Director of Public Works, and to return the order
immediately upon completion of the work, with an endorsement thereon signed by
him or her showing the date, place and manner in which the meter service
connection was made and an itemized statement of the cost of installation.
(1986 Code, § 20-62) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 52.052 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   Applications and orders made pursuant to this subchapter and the reports
issued and returned thereon shall be appropriately numbered and kept on file in
the office of the Water and Sewer Department as a permanent record.
(1986 Code, § 20-63) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 52.053 COST.
   For all regular three-fourths inch taps and service connections, the city
will furnish and install within the city limits the tap and service pipe
connections, curb cock box and meter when the connection does not require more
than 50 feet of pipe, for a charge established by the City Council. The
consumer shall pay all additional installation costs. Outside of the city
limits there shall be a higher charge as established by the City Council for
the connections and the consumer shall also pay all additional charges of
installation.
(1986 Code, § 20-64)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see Ch. 37, App. A
§ 52.054 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   Connections to the city water system of every building in the city shall be
entirely separate and independent from that of every other building, except
where there are two buildings on one lot, one being in the rear of the other;
in which event if there is no main in the alley to which the rear building can
be connected, the main in front of the building may be extended to serve the
rear building.
(1986 Code, § 20-65)
§ 52.055 NONPAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   The charges required by §
52.053 shall be paid before water service is provided. If charges are not paid,
water service shall be withheld or terminated.
(1986 Code, § 20-65)
§ 52.056 STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   All mains, laterals to lot lines, valves, fittings and pipes shall
comply with American Water Works Association standards, as they exist at the
time of the installation.
   (B)   Taps and service connections shall comply with the provisions of the
Illinois Plumbing Code adopted by §
151.130.
(1986 Code, § 20-67)
RATES AND METERS
§ 52.070 METERS REQUIRED.
   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial or industrial use, shall
be metered.
(1986 Code, § 20-76)
§ 52.071 ACCESSIBILITY OF METERS.
   All meters shall be placed and installed so as to render the meters
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing, and so as to
be free from danger of freezing. Meters shall be set in suitable meter boxes
approved by the Public Works Committee of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 20-77)
§ 52.072 METER INSTALLATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO WATER SERVICE.
   Water will not be turned on for new connections until the meter has been
installed and the other requirements of this chapter have been fully complied
with by the property owner.
(1986 Code, § 20-78)
§ 52.073 METERS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All water meters and water fixtures, connections and appurtenances on
private properties connected with the city waterworks shall be open to
inspection of the proper officers and employees of the city at all reasonable
hours, and shall not be located in any enclosed building.
(1986 Code, § 20-79)
§ 52.074 REMOTE READERS; WHEN REQUIRED; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   As the city is able, meters will be replaced with remote reading readouts
mounted on the exterior of buildings, and all new construction in the city will
be equipped with these remote readers. After remote readers are available for
any structure, no water service will be provided to the structure after 30-
days’ notice of the availability of the remote readers, until they are
installed. In the event that any service is terminated because of availability
of remote readers and the refusal by the property owners of permission to
install the same, any charges for disconnection and subsequent reinstallation
of water service shall be charged at the normal rates authorized by this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-80)
§ 52.075 METER READING CONCLUSIVE; EXCEPTION FOR DEFECTIVE METERS.
   All water consumers shall be liable for the water consumption as shown by
the meter, whether used, wasted or caused by leakage or otherwise, provided
that wherever the city shall find any meter not registering, then an average
bill may be rendered based at the option of the city on either the nearest
prior three months’ average use, when in good order, or on the same month of
the preceding year if the use is seasonable. Whenever the city shall have
reason to believe that the meter is not reading correctly, then an average bill
may be rendered and the water meter removed for testing. Should the average
bill prove to be incorrectly estimated, either by actual test or by actual
water consumption after being replaced by a correct meter, then the bill so
rendered shall be revised to conform to the same.
(1986 Code, § 20-81)
§ 52.076 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter then in use in his, her or their premises, which will be made by the
city free of charge if the meter has not been tested within one year preceding
the request. If a consumer requests an accuracy test of a meter which has been
previously tested within one year, the consumer shall deposit with the city an
amount to cover the cost of removing, testing and replacing the water meter
before the city will make the test, which deposit shall be in an amount
established by the City Council.
   (B)   If the meter is found by the test to overregister at full capacity by
more than 2% an accurate meter will be substituted for the defective meter, the
test deposit shall be returned to the consumer and past water bills shall be
adjusted by a refund or credit. The refund or credit shall be the percentage of
the amount of the bills for a period of not more than three months previous to
the test as the meter has shown to be over-registered.
   (C)   If the meter is found not to be defective, the city will keep the
deposit to pay for expenses.
   (D)   Any water used by the consumer while the water meter is removed for
the test, either at the request of the occupant or by the city, shall be paid
for on a proportionate estimated basis unless another meter was installed
during the test.
(1986 Code, § 20-82)
§ 52.077 SEPARATE METERS REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall connect any water pipe or conduct water supplied by
the city into two or more distinct premises unless separate and distinct water
meters and service stop cocks are provided for each premises.
   (B)   For the purposes of division (A) of this section, a DISTINCT PREMISES
shall be considered as one which is a complete living unit or a complete
business unit.
   (C)   Common water meters for commercial complexes with more than one
business or unit are not permitted.
   (D)   Water lines tapped to city mains are not permitted on private property
before being connected to a meter.
(1986 Code, § 20-83) (Ord. 1987-15, passed 7-20-1987)
§ 52.078 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   All mobile home parks shall pay the minimum charge for each mobile home
located therein. The owner of the park shall be responsible for the minimum and
any excess charges according to the rates established pursuant to this
subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-84)
§ 52.079 METERS DAMAGED BY CONSUMER.
   Whenever a water meter is found to have been damaged by hot water being
forced back into it from the consumer’s hot water or heating apparatus, or for
any other cause within the control of the consumer, the consumer shall pay the
city for the actual cost of the removal, repair and replacement of the damaged
meter.
(1986 Code, § 20-85)
§ 52.080 DEPOSITS.
   Water service deposits shall be deposited with the City Administrator to
guarantee payment of city water bills. Water service deposits shall be in
amounts established by the City Council and shall be paid before water service
is provided.
(1986 Code, § 20-86) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 52.081 RATES.
   Monthly rates for city water shall be as determined from time to time by the
City Council pursuant to a rate ordinance and the most current ordinance shall
be and is hereby incorporated herein as if more fully set forth.
(1986 Code, § 20-87) (Ord. 1990-19, passed 10-1-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see Ch. 37, App. A
§ 52.082 BILLING PERIODS.
   The city may, at its discretion, read the meters and bill the consumers
every month or three months. In the case of quarterly billings, the quantity of
water allowed at the various rates will be three times that established for
monthly rates and the minimum charge shall be three times the monthly minimum.
The minimum charge shall apply as a service charge whether or not the meter was
used during the billing period.
(1986 Code, § 20-88)
§ 52.083 DUTY OF CITY TO INSTALL AND READ METERS; USE AS BASIS FOR BILLING.
   It shall be the duty of the officials of the city to see that a water meter
is established for each user at the time service is installed. The water meter
shall be kept in a good state of repair and shall be read by a duly constituted
agent of the city and the reading shall constitute the basis for billings under
this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 20-89)
§ 52.084 FAILURE TO PAY BILL.
   Any consumer refusing or neglecting to pay his or her water bill for a
period of 45 days subsequent to its rendition shall be deprived of the use of
water, and it is hereby constituted the duty of the city and its officials to
shut off the water supply to any consumer until the time that all past due
bills are fully paid. The city shall charge a fee as determined from time to
time by the City Council to the customer for the operation of turning the water
services back on.
(1986 Code, § 20-90) (Ord. 1990-27, passed 12-17-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
§ 52.085 SERVICE CHARGES ON DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   All bills are due and owing on the fifteenth day of each month. Any consumer
refusing or neglecting to pay his or her water bill on or before the fifteenth
day shall be subject to a 10% service charge thereon.
(1986 Code, § 20-91) (Ord. 1990-27, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 52.086 RETURNED CHECKS.
   If a negotiable instrument received in payment of a customer’s water bill is
returned to the City Administrator unhonored by the payor for any reason, that
customer will be given written notice that if payment in cash or by money order
is not received by the City Administrator in the full amount of the returned
instrument within five business days of the notice, then that customer’s water
service will be discontinued until the required payment plus a service fee as
determined from time to time by the City Council is received. If the payment is
not received within five business days of the notice, the city shall shut off
the water service in accordance with the terms of the notice.
(1986 Code, § 20-92) (Ord. 1990-27, passed 12-17-1990; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 52.120 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term SUBDIVISION shall mean all
property on which more than one residence is or will be located.
(1986 Code, § 20-111)
§ 52.121 PROVISIONS, CHARGES CUMULATIVE.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to all other provisions of this code
and other ordinances now in force in connection with connections to the city
water system. It is the express policy of the city that a connection charge
shall be made by the city in addition to any other charges required by this
subchapter. The connection charge shall be as established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 20-112)
§ 52.122 AVAILABILITY OF WATER CONDITION TO PERMITTING CONNECTION.
   (A)   All connections granted applicants under the terms of this subchapter
shall be subject to the condition that the water supply of the city is adequate
at the time the application is made.
   (B)   If the City Council determines that the water supply of the city is
not adequate, then all applications shall be denied until such time as the City
Council determines that the water supply is adequate.
   (C)   Determination of the City Council shall be final.
(1986 Code, § 20-113)
PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT
§ 52.135 MAP TO BE FURNISHED TO CITY PRIOR TO INSTALLATION.
   Prior to installing any equipment or device pursuant to this subchapter, the
owner shall furnish the city a complete map showing the kind, size and location
of all private mains, gates, hydrants and apparatus.
(1986 Code, § 20-121)
§ 52.136 APPROVAL BY CITY.
   All fire mains, extensions, connections or additions and the construction
and kind of hydrants and apparatus installed or constructed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the consent and approval of the city.
(1986 Code, § 20-122)
§ 52.137 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be held liable or responsible for any direct or resultant
damages due to the condition, pressure, amount of water available or leakage of
any private fire mains, hydrants or other apparatus, or because of any shutoff
for nonpayment, to make tests, enforce rules or because of any fire loss or
change of any nature.
(1986 Code, § 20-123)
§ 52.138 USE RESTRICTED TO OWNERS OR CONSUMERS.
   All private fire connections, mains, pipes, fire hydrants, standpipes,
automatic sprinklers and any other privately owned fire extinguishing apparatus
shall be installed, maintained and used only by the owner or consumer.
(1986 Code, § 20-124)
§ 52.139 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No private fire hydrants or other apparatus shall be used for wetting
down lumber, building grounds, filling tanks, sprinkling or any purpose other
than extinguishing an actual fire.
   (B)   No pipe connection shall be made to any private fire main or apparatus
from which water may be taken for any purpose other than actual firefighting
use.
(1986 Code, § 20-125) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.140 TESTS AND INSPECTIONS; REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to make a small meter bypass test and
inspections of any private fire main and apparatus at any time. If any leakage
is found, the owner or consumer shall immediately repair or replace any
defective pipe or apparatus.
   (B)   If any pipe or apparatus is found to be in a dangerous condition, the
city may, at its option, immediately shut off the private fire main connection
and not turn it on until it is satisfactorily repaired or replaced.
   (C)   The city may, in the case of a defective pipe or apparatus, or if it
has any reason to believe that water is being taken for any other purpose than
extinguishing fires, install after five-days’ notice a fire main meter at the
sole cost and expense of the owner or consumer, and any charge thereafter shall
be at meter rates in addition to the regular fire main connection rate.
   (D)   The city may place seals on private fire hydrants and other outlets,
and in case the same are found broken, may install a meter as provided in
division (C) of this section, unless the city has been notified in advance of
any test to be made by the consumer.
(1986 Code, § 20-126)
§ 52.141 GATE VALVES.
   A sufficient number of gate valves shall be placed in every main fire line
installed pursuant to this subchapter in order that, at the time of fire,
portions of the line may be cut off if broken.
(1986 Code, § 20-127)
§ 52.142 FIRE DISTRICT CONNECTIONS.
   Any appropriate Fire Protection District may, upon prior approval of the
city, install fire plugs approved in advance by the city upon city water mains.
The fire plug or hydrant shall be paid for and installed by the Fire Protection
District and thereafter will be the property of the city, and the annual charge
for rental of the fire hydrant by the Fire Protection District will be as
established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 20-128) (Ord. 1982-10, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.030 through
52.036 shall be fined not more than $500 for each offense. Each day that a
violation exists shall be considered a separate offense. This penalty may be
invoked as an alternative to, or as an addition to, any other penalties
provided for in §§
51.17 and
51.18.
(1986 Code, § 20-57) (Ord. 1994-33, passed 11-9-1994; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-3-2007)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Accounts
   
53.03   Charges
   
53.04   Bills payable; delinquent; liens; access to records
   
53.05   Use of public sewers required
   
53.06   Private sewage disposal
   
53.07   Building sewers and connections
   
53.08   Discharges to the public sewers; interceptors
   
53.09   Protection of sewage works and damage
   
53.10   Powers and authority of inspectors
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to words and terms defined elsewhere in this chapter,
Chapter 51 or
Chapter 52, the following words and terms as used in this chapter shall have
the following meanings, unless some other meaning is plainly intended.
Clarification of word usage: “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissible.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Council of the city, or its representative.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer systems.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives that discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE. A charge levied on users to improve, extend or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   CITY. The City of Troy.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of loans and revenue bonds outstanding.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right of the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Defined in an applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 4466 et seq.) as
amended (Pub. L. No. 95-217).
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pre-treatment
facility. All wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE FAT if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that: (1) has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average
workday; or (2) has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or (3) has in its waste a toxic pollutant
in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) of
the Federal Act; or (4) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water or
wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituents in 1,000
milligrams (1,000 mg) of water. It has replaced the formerly commonly used
“parts per million,” to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the
results of water and wastewater analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent documents or requirements issued by
the Administrator or, where appropriate, by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Clean Water Act of 1972, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., to
regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342 of the
Federal Act.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration expressed by the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT.  Term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is 100
gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pound of BOD and 0.20 pound of
suspended solids.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the city wastewater collection system and treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   SEWAGE.  Used interchangeably with “wastewater” (see definition of
WASTEWATER).
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      SEWER, BUILDING. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      SEWER, COMBINED. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
      SEWER, PUBLIC. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries that
serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary sewer
system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with city funds.
      SEWER, SANITARY. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground water or polluted
industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWER, STORM. A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water
drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND.  The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT. The Illinois Antipollution Bond Act of 1970, being ILCS Ch. 30,
Act 405, §§ 1 et seq.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF.  The portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the wastewater service charge which
is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength than the
concentration values established in §
53.03.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE.  The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS. The type of user, residential, institutional/government,
commercial or industrial, as defined below.
      USER, COMMERCIAL.  Includes transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
      USER, INDUSTRIAL. Includes establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into projects.
      USER, INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL. Includes schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local government.
      USER, RESIDENTIAL.  All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and stormwater that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge per month levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in §
53.03.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. Defined in the water pollution regulations of the
state.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1986 Code, § 20-136) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997)
Editor’s note:
   The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, being ILCS Ch. 30, Act 405, §§
1 et seq., was repealed by P.A. 103-616
§ 53.02 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall establish a proper system of accounts and
shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and
at regular annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts required to be
recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of nonmetered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(1986 Code, § 20-137) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 53.03 CHARGES.
   (A)   User charge system. Every person whose premises are served by the
public sewer of the city will be charged for the sewer services provided. A
basic charge based on the water meter readings, or if available, a discharge
metering device approved by the Director of Public Works, and the basic charges
shall be as follows and are levied to defray the cost of operation and
maintenance and replacement of the treatment works.
      (1)   Minimum charge. The total minimum rate is $8.30 per month. Based
upon minimum usage of 2,000 gallons per month, $3.30 per month of the total
minimum charge shall be the operation, maintenance and replacement minimum
rate. The remaining $5 per month of the total minimum rate shall be the debt
service minimum charge.
      (2)   Basic user charges. For usage in excess of 2,000 gallons per month,
in addition to the minimum charge above, $3.75 per 1,000 gallons metered shall
be the basic rate charge. Of this $3.75 per 1,000-gallon charge, $1.65 per
1,000 gallons metered shall be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
recovery, with the remaining $2.10 per 1,000 for debt service recovery.
         (a)   Sewer connections only. The minimum charge for users of sewer
connections only shall be at the rate of $8.30 per month. An additional $3.75
per 1,000 gallons of wastewater discharged into the sewer system in excess of
the minimum 2,000 gallons per month usage shall be charged.
         (b)   Other sewer connections. All charges for use of sewer
connections where water is supplied thereto by the city and subject to the
special provisions herein shall be as follows.
            1.   A minimum charge of $8.30 per month, which rate shall apply as
a service charge so long as the sewer connection is in service and regardless
whether or not water is used during the period, and which minimum charge shall
entitle the user to discharge 2,000 gallons of water per month into the sewer
system.
            2.   For all water metered to the premises in excess of the 2,000
gallons, a charge therefor shall be at the rate of $3.75 per 1,000 gallons of
water metered. The above rate shall apply to the amount of water passing
through the water meter except when an approved discharge metering system is
utilized. In this case the rate shall apply to that water discharged to the
system.
      (3)   Basis for wastewater service charges. The wastewater service charge
for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities of the
city shall consist of a basic user charge for operation and maintenance plus
replacement, applicable surcharges and a debt service charge.
         (a)   The debt service charge is computed as a fixed charge plus a
charge per 1,000 gallons.
         (b)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
domestic concentrations:
            1.   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 215
milligrams per liter.
            2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of 245 milligrams per liter
(245 mg/l). It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus
replacement and shall be computed as follows:
               a.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD
to be treated;
               b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate
and maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the
year, for all works categories;
               c.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by
volume, SS and BOD; and
               d.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, SS and BOD.
         (c)   Wastewater service charge shall be computed as follows:
            CW = CM + CDM + (Vu-X)Cu + (Vu-X)CUD + CS
      Where:
CW  = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period
CM  = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R)
CDM = Minimum charge for debt service
Vu  = Wastewater volume for the billing period
X   = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge
Cu  = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R)
CUD = Basic user rate for debt service
CS  = Amount of surcharge
 
      (4)   Notification. If otherwise required by law, the users of the
wastewater treatment service will be notified annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributed to the wastewater treatment operation, maintenance and replacement.
Otherwise, the information shall be available for review by the public.
      (5)   Annual review. The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall
be reviewed not less often than annually. The wastewater service charge shall
be revised periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs including
replacement costs, and costs of operation and maintenance.
   (B)   Special provisions. The following special provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Debt service charges; duplex or apartments.  Where water is
supplied to a duplex or apartment building, where there is only one meter for
the entire premises, the minimum debt service charge shall be calculated as if
the total amount of water metered has been supplied through separate meters for
each side of the duplex and for each apartment in the building. This method
shall also be utilized where one meter services a residence plus a business
establishment. In this manner each household or business will equally share the
minimum debt service costs of the system. (Operation, maintenance and
replacement minimum charges shall be assessed per meter only, regardless of the
number of dwelling or business units.)
      (2)   Debt service charges; trailer courts.  Where water is supplied to
premises used as a trailer court, where there is only one meter for the entire
premises, the minimum debt service charge shall be calculated as if the total
amount of water metered has been supplied through separate meters equal in
number to the number of trailer spaces occupied at the time of each reading of
the meter. The minimum debt service charge shall apply for each living unit
served if less than the minimum amount of water per unit was used. In this
manner each trailer will equally share the minimum debt service costs of the
system. (Operation, maintenance and replacement minimum charges shall be
assessed per meter only, regardless of the number of occupied trailer spaces.)
   (C)   Additional assessments. In addition to the above charges, for normal
domestic sewage, the following assessments shall be made. A surcharge will be
levied to all users whose waters exceed normal domestic concentrations of BOD
(215 milligrams per liter) and SS (245 milligrams per liter). The surcharge
will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters
for all wastes which exceed the 215 mg/l and 245 mg/l concentration for BOD and
SS respectively. The surcharge shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the city and shall be binding as a basis for
surcharges.
      (2)   Upon determining the concentration of wastes, a surcharge equal to
the minimum charge referred to in division (A) of this section shall be
assessed for each 245 ppm BOD or SS in excess of the normal domestic
concentration. The assessment cost shall be $0.11 per pound and $0.10 per pound
of BOD and SS respectively. BOD or SS, whichever is determined to be in highest
concentration, shall be the parameter to be utilized in determining the
surcharge.
   (D)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of 100 gallons.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public water
works system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the
person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the city for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the city if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from the
metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of wastewater shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the owner. Following approval and
installation, the meters may not be removed, unless service is canceled,
without the consent of the city.
(1986 Code, § 20-138) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 2007-21, passed 12-
3-2007)
§ 53.04 BILLS PAYABLE; DELINQUENT; LIENS; ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   (A)   Bills. The rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly
depending on the classification of service for which bills are rendered. The
owner of the premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall
be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to the premises, and the
service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that
the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the city. A penalty of 10% shall be added to all
bills not paid by the due date indicated on the bill.
   (B)   Delinquent bills. If the charges for the services are not paid within
45 days after the rendition of the bill for the services, water services shall
be discontinued without further notice and shall not be reinstated until all
claims are settled. A $10 fee shall be paid prior to reconnection. All bills
are due and owing on the fifteenth day of each month. Any consumer refusing or
neglecting to pay his or her sewer bill on or before the fifteenth day shall be
subject to a 10% service charge thereon.
   (C)   Lien for nonpayment.
      (1)   A lien may be filed whenever a bill for sewer service is unpaid, or
if any costs of remedy or recovery to the sewer system remain unpaid. In
addition to the direct costs associated with the cleanup, recovery or remedy,
the amount claimed in the lien may include attorney fees, engineering fees,
other professional fees, wages paid to city employees and contractors, and use
of the equipment of the city or its contractors. The City Administrator shall
file with the County Recorder a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain a statement describing the premises served, the amount of the unpaid
bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien for the amount stated as well as
for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill. The lien may be
filed against the owners of the property, including but not limited to owners
of the fee simple, beneficial owners of a land trust, purchasers under an
installment contract and lessees.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall mail, or otherwise serve, a copy of
the notice of lien to the owners of the property and all interested persons.
The failure to mail this notice shall not affect the right to foreclose upon
the lien.
   (D)   Foreclosure of lien.
      (1)   The city may foreclose upon the lien in the manner provided for by
law. The proceeds from the sale of the property shall be applied to pay the
costs and attorney fees associated with the unpaid bills and the foreclosure,
and the amount of the unpaid bill.
      (2)   The remedies in this section are cumulative to any other remedy
provided by law or ordinance. In the event a statute mandates a period of time
before an action can be taken or a procedure followed, the requirements of the
statute shall control.
   (E)   Revenues.  All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the
sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage
Fund. All such revenues and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate
and apart from his or her private funds, and separate and apart from all other
funds of the city and all of that sum, without any deductions whatever, shall
be delivered to the City Treasurer not more than ten days after receipt of the
same, or at more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
City Clerk or the City Administrator. The City Treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and monies incidental to
the operation of the system as the same may be delivered to him or her and
deposit the same in the account of the fund designated as the “Sewerage Fund of
the city.” The Treasurer shall administer the Fund in every respect in the
manner provided by statutes of the state.
   (F)   Penalty.  Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to §
53.99.
   (G)   Access to records.  The IEPA or USEPA or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city which
are applicable to the city system of user charges or industrial costs recovery
for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions
thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general
conditions of any state revolving wastewater loan.
(1986 Code, § 20-139) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is not located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 350
feet of the property line. Pumping facilities may be necessary to be provided
by the owner.
(1986 Code, § 20-140) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provision of §
53.05, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the Madison County
Planning and Development Department.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Madison County Planning and Development Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the Madison County
Private Sewage Disposal Code.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.05, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspool and similar private sewage
disposal facilitates shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilitates in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the city or Madison
County.
   (H)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to the sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
(1986 Code, § 20-141) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-
15-2020)
§ 53.07 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   All disposal by a person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for
residential wastewater service; and for commercial, institutional/governmental
or industrial wastewater service. In either case, the owner or his or her agent
shall make application on a special form furnished by the city.
      (2)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plan,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the city. A permit fee of $750 and an inspection fee of $50 for a residential
or commercial unit sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the city, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the latest
edition of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control
Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by a means which is
approved by the city, and discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, area-way drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
ground water to a building sewer of building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the latest edition of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federal Manual Of Practice No. 9,
and Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In Illinois.
All these connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city before
installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify at least 24
hours in advance the City Water and Sewer Superintendent when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the city or its
representative.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkway and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   (1)   The city will accept responsibility for the maintenance of the
sewer mains only and will not maintain any part of the sanitary sewer service
line from its connection point on the sewer main to the customer’s residence or
building.
      (2)   In the case of a complaint of a sewer backup or other sewer related
problem, the customer shall immediately contact the city and advise the city of
the nature and location of the problem. The customer shall allow the city the
opportunity to inspect the sewer problem prior to having it repaired and the
city will determine whether or not the sewer main is the cause of the sewer
backup or sewer problem, and if the sewer main is responsible for the backup or
sewer problem, the city will repair the sewer main. In the event the customer
does not contact the city or allow the city to inspect the sewer problem, the
city shall not be responsible for any costs or expenses incurred by the
customer.
      (3)   If a sewer backup is a result of a problem in the service line, it
is the customer’s responsibility to repair the problem, and if the source of
the problem lies under the city’s right-of-way, the customer is required to
repair the sanitary sewer service at his or her expense in accordance with this
section. The city shall, however, be responsible only for the transport of the
excavated material, backfill and street surface restoration.
(1986 Code, § 20-142) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997; Ord. 2003-22, passed 10-
6-2003) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 DISCHARGES TO THE PUBLIC SEWERS; INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the city. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the city to a storm
sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, or constitute
a hazard to humans in the receiving water of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
      (4)   Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as but not limited to ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshing, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
substances: materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the city that the wastes can harm either the sewer, sewage treatment process or
equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In forming the
opinion as to the acceptability of the wastes, the city will give consideration
to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (100 mg/
l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances, or water exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to the degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the city for those materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for the discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
that may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waste or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 2.0 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the city in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as but
not limited to fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as but not limited to sodium chloride);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as but not limited to dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chloride requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
slugs as defined in §
53.01.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged to the public sewers,
which water contains the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated
in division (D) of this chapter, and/or which are in violation of the standards
for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. 403, June 26, 1978, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the
provisions of §
53.99.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the city and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole together
with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. The manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as
to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the drainage.
      (1)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards is being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analysis to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city.
      (2)   At such times as deemed necessary the city reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken in the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazard to life, limb and property. The
particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analysis
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.
   (K)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special arrangement between the city and any concern whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment, subject to payment thereof, by the industrial concern, provided
the payments are in accordance with the federal and state guidelines for the
user charge system.
(1986 Code, § 20-143) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS AND DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest and prosecuted.
(1986 Code, § 20-144) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties at all reasonable
times for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurements, sampling and
testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The city or its
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) of this section, the city or duly authorized employees of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. environmental agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees and they shall indemnify the company against liability claims and
demand for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain conditions as required in §
53.08(H).
   (C)   The city and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties at all reasonable times through which the city holds a duly
negotiated easement for purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1986 Code, § 20-145) (Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense.
Each day shall constitute a separate offense. This shall be in addition to any
other remedy.
(1986 Code, § 20-139)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
except §
53.07 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations. The city may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
53.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, shall be fined in an amount not less
than $50 per day nor more than $750 per day. Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reasons of the violation.
(1986 Code, § 20-146)
(Ord. 1997-17, passed 5-5-1997)
CHAPTER 54: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
54.01   Purpose; scope; applicability; prescription
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Annual registration required; application for franchise required
   
54.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
54.05   Action on permit applications
   
54.06   Effect of permit
   
54.07   Revised permit drawings
   
54.08   Insurance
   
54.09   Indemnification
   
54.10   Security
   
54.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
54.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
54.13   General construction standards
   
54.14   Traffic control
   
54.15   Location of facilities
   
54.16   Construction methods and materials
   
54.17   Vegetation control
   
54.18   Removal, relocation or modifications of utility facilities
   
54.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
54.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
54.21   Variances
   
54.22   Enforcement
   
54.23   Compensation for use of the rights-of-way
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE; SCOPE; APPLICABILITY; PRESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. Except as provided by applicable
law, this chapter shall apply to all excavations, use, construction, operation,
and maintenance of facilities or structures in the rights-of-way by any person
other than the city. No utility shall commence or continue with the operation
of any facilities or structures in the rights-of-way, except as provided and in
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Franchise or license required.
      (1)   Franchise. Except as may be otherwise provided by law, no utility
may construct, maintain, own, control or use facilities or structures in the
rights-of-way without a binding lawful franchise with the city granting the
privilege of locating such facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across or within the city's rights-of-way. In the event of any conflict with,
or inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of
any franchise, the provisions of such franchise shall govern and control during
the term of such franchise, and any lawful renewal or extension thereof
authorized by the city. All utilities claiming to be engaged in the sale of
telecommunications at retail pursuant to ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, §§ 5-1 et seq.
must so state by verified application, and provide the city with the applicable
resale number as provided in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-45(a).
      (2)   License for incidental use. Persons desiring to install facilities
qualifying as merely an incidental use, which includes installation of
temporary structures or minor incidental uses in the rights-of-way, such as
mailboxes, driveway aprons, ingress or egress facilities, and similar
incidental uses, that utilize a small area of the rights-of-way and serves the
principal structure, may be permitted without a franchise pursuant to a license
issued by the Director. The Director shall have discretion to establish such
application, requirements, and conditions applicable to such uses consistent
with the purposes of this chapter or as otherwise established by law. Any
person granted a license hereunder shall be subject to the applicable
requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Grant and nature of approval; terms and compensation. The authority
granted by the city in franchise or license shall be for non-exclusive use of
the rights-of-way. Such grant does not in any way limit the continuing
authority of the city through the proper exercise of its statutory powers to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to provide for the health, safety, and
welfare of the public. The city specifically reserves the right to grant, at
any time, such additional agreements or other rights to use the rights-of-way
for any purpose and to any other person, including itself, as it deems
appropriate, subject to all applicable laws. The granting of any franchise or
license shall not be deemed to create any property interest of any kind in
favor of the person, nor shall it create any relationship of agency,
partnership, joint venture, or employment between the parties. Except as
provided in §
54.03(G), all franchises shall be approved by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council on a nondiscriminatory basis, provided that the utility is in
compliance with all applicable requirements. All licenses may be approved by
the Director on a nondiscriminatory basis, provided that the applicant is in
compliance with all applicable requirements. Each franchise and license shall
include terms of use and be deemed to incorporate the terms of this chapter and
other applicable laws of the city, except as may be expressly stated in such
franchise or license. Franchise compensation and terms shall be as provided in
this code or as maybe otherwise lawfully established in the franchise.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws; preemption. No provision of
this chapter shall apply to any circumstance in which such application shall be
unlawful under superseding state or federal law. Furthermore, if any section,
division, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this chapter is now or in the
future superseded or preempted by state or federal law, or found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unauthorized, that provision shall be
automatically interpreted and applied as required by law. In the event that
applicable state or federal laws or regulations conflict with the requirements
of this chapter, the person or utility shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter, to the maximum extent possible without violating state or federal
laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards, conditions
and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so determines. Nothing
herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city to regulate its
rights-of-way for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (I)   No warranty. The city makes no express or implied representation or
warranty regarding its rights to authorize the installation or construction of
facilities on any particular segment of rights-of-way and shall not be liable
for any damage therefrom. The burden and responsibility for making all such
determinations in advance of construction or installation shall be entirely
upon the utility. Such utility shall be wholly liable for any damages to
facilities or other property due to excavation, facilities construction, or
other ROW work performed prior to obtaining the location of all facilities,
without cost or liability to the city. No person shall make or attempt to make
repairs, relocation, or replacement of damaged or disturbed facilities or uses
without the approval of the owner of such facilities.
   (J)   Use of city or third-party facilities. No franchise or license shall
be deemed to grant the right to use facilities or other property owned or
controlled by the city or a third party, and no such use shall occur, without
the express written consent of such party (on file with the city and subject to
other applicable requirements), nor shall any franchise or license excuse such
person from first obtaining a pole attachment agreement or other express
consent for such right or use before locating on the facilities controlled or
owned by the city or a third party.
   (K)   Lease required for public lands. Unless otherwise provided, use or
installation of any facilities in non-right-of-way public property of the city
shall be permitted only if a lease agreement or other separate written approval
has been negotiated and approved by the city, with such reasonable terms as the
city may require.
   (L)   Condition precedent to permit. Unless otherwise required by applicable
law, no permit required by this chapter may be issued unless of until such
person has a valid franchise or license with the city that authorizes that
person's use of the rights-of-way. Unless prohibited by applicable law, in
addition to any other reason provided herein, the Director may deny a permit to
any person that does not have a valid franchise or license with the city.
   (M)   Transferability. Except as provided in this chapter or as otherwise
required by law, no franchise, license, or permit maybe transferred or assigned
to a third party without the written application to, and consent of the city,
based on the requirements and policies of this chapter. The city shall not
unreasonably withhold its consent as provided herein, but any costs incurred
shall be paid by the utility to the extent allowed by law.
   (N)   Forfeiture of agreement and privilege. In case of failure on the part
of the person or utility, including its successors and assigns, to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, or the provisions of franchise or
license, or if the person or utility, its successors and assigns, should do or
cause to be done any act or thing prohibited by or in violation of this
chapter, or the terms of the authorization of such use, or otherwise loses
authority to provide its service in the city, the person or utility, its
successors and assigns, shall forfeit all rights and privileges permitted by
this chapter and any franchise or license, and all rights hereunder shall
cease, terminate, and become null and void, provided that the forfeiture shall
not take effect until the city shall carry out the following proceedings.
      (1)   Before the city declares the forfeiture or revocation of a
franchise or license, it shall first serve a written notice upon the person,
setting forth in detail the neglect or failure complained of.
      (2)   The person shall have 30 days thereafter, or such other reasonable
period established by the City Council, in which to cure the default by
complying with the conditions of the franchise or license, and fully remedying
any default or violation.
      (3)   If at the end of such period the city determines that the
conditions have not been complied with, and that the person did not reasonably
and in the public interest require more than 30 days to cure the default, the
city shall take action by an affirmative vote of the City Council present at
the meeting, and voting to terminate the franchise or license, setting out the
grounds upon which the agreement or other authorization is to be forfeited or
revoked.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from invoking any other
remedy or from declaring immediate forfeiture where the default is incapable of
being cured by the utility, including where such defaults or violations have
repeatedly occurred.
   (O)   No cause of action against the city. A person or utility shall have no
damages remedy or monetary recourse whatsoever against the city for any loss,
cost, expense, or damage arising from any of the provisions or requirements of
any franchise or license, or because of the enforcement thereof by the city, or
from the use of the rights-of-way. Nothing herein shall preclude the person or
utility from seeking injunctive or declaratory judgment relief against the city
where such relief is otherwise available and the requirements therefor are
otherwise satisfied.
   (P)   Review required; use of existing facilities. The design, location, and
nature of all facilities shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City Engineer. Such review shall be on a nondiscriminatory basis in application
of city policy, and approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld. All new
facilities or structures shall collocate on existing poles or existing conduit,
trenches or other facilities, to minimize unnecessary use of rights-of-way
space, to reduce potential existing or future interference and obstructions,
and to reduce the cost to the public or others therefrom, and to maximize the
public's ability to use and license appropriate private or public uses of the
rights-of-way in the public interest (except where preempted by law or where
good cause is established as determined by the city applying these objectives).
Where existing poles or facilities are available, or exist at or near the
proposed use, unless otherwise approved, the applicant must either use such
facilities, or file a written request, verified by the applicant, for exception
specifying the specific reasons why such facilities are not available or
feasible to be used, and addressing the objectives hereof. City height
limitations, applicable zoning restrictions, and general city policies with
regard to all users of the rights-of-way shall be applicable to all facilities.
The City Engineer may establish such regulations or policies as maybe deemed
necessary or appropriate to effect this provision. For applications for
installation of any facility in the rights-of-way, the most restrictive
adjacent underlying zoning district classification shall apply unless otherwise
specifically zoned and designated on the official zoning map.
      (1)   (a)   No utility may erect, construct, or install new utility poles
or other facilities above the surface of the rights-of-way without the written
permission of the city based on good cause established by the utility and found
by the city. Good cause may be shown by demonstrating the following;
            1.   There exist other utility poles or support structures,
proximate to the area, that are located above ground. For purposes of showing
good cause under this factor, evidence of good cause for new utility poles
shall only be compared to existing utility poles, evidence of good cause for
new support structures shall only be compared to existing support structures;
            2.   The proposed underground installation is impossible,
impractical, or not technically feasible; or
            3.   When, in the city's judgment, the proposed utility pole
installation will be made at a location, and will employ suitable design and
materials, to provide the greatest protection of aesthetic qualities of the
proximate area without adversely affecting safety.
            4.   Where reasonable and appropriate and where adequate rights-of-
way exist, the utility shall place above-ground facilities underground in
conjunction with city capital improvement projects and/or at specific locations
requested by the city provided that such placement is practical, efficient, and
economically feasible. The requirements herein shall not prohibit the
replacement of existing utility poles.
      (2)   (a)   All small wireless facilities, as defined in ILCS Ch. 50, Act
840, § 10, in the rights-of-way shall comply with the following requirements,
in addition to any other design, safety, spacing, or construction requirements
as may be outlined in a franchise agreement or the city's code:
            1.   The maximum height of a small wireless facility that is
collocated on a utility pole or support structure shall be no more than ten
feet above the utility pole or support structure that such small wireless
facility is collocated;
            2.   All written design standards, currently in effect or as may
hereafter be adopted by the Director, applicable to the city's utility poles or
support structures shall be followed, along with all stealth, concealment, and
any other aesthetic requirements or written design plans applicable to such
utility poles or support structures on record, adopted, or in effect within the
city, including such stealth, concealment, or other aesthetic requirements for
historic landmarks or within a district currently, or hereafter, zoned
historic;
            3.   The small wireless facility and any associated equipment
permitted shall be painted the same or similar color as the utility pole or
support structure upon which the facility and/or equipment is collocated. If
good cause is shown for ground-mounted equipment, such ground-mounted equipment
associated with a collocated small wireless facility shall be of such design,
including color and size, such that it maximally blends in to the built
environment of the proximate area;
            4.   New or replacement utility poles or support structures may not
exceed the higher of:
               A.   Forty-five feet AGL; or
               B.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date that an applicant submits an application to the city, that is
located within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or support structure and
that is in the same ROW within the jurisdiction of the city; provided, however,
that the city may designate which intersecting ROW within 300 feet of the
proposed utility pole or support structure shall control the height limitation
for such facility; without a special use permit approved by City Council
pursuant to § 154.141, as may be hereinafter amended;
            5.   A utility must comply with any requirements imposed by any
contract between the city and a private property owner that concerns, or
relates to, design or construction standards for utility poles located in the
rights-of-way;
            6.   No new utility poles or other support structures may be
installed within the city's rights-of-way without the prior approval of the
city upon good cause shown for compliance with design and aesthetic
requirements. This requirement does not prohibit modification of existing
utility poles or support structures to allow for collocation of small wireless
facilities. Replacement utility poles shall be permitted as required by
applicable law. In such a circumstance requiring a replacement pole for a small
wireless facility, replacement utility poles shall be at the sole cost of the
utility proposing the replacement utility pole;
            7.   No ground-mounted equipment associated with the small wireless
facility will be permitted. Waiver to this requirement may be granted by the
City Administrator upon good cause showing that the utility requires ground-
mounted equipment to utilize the site for a small wireless facility. If good
cause is shown permitting such ground-mounted equipment for a small wireless
facility, no other ground-mounted equipment shall be allowed for the utility,
or for the particular utility if the person provides only infrastructure-
related services for the utility, within 250 feet of that approved ground-
mounted equipment;
            8.   The proposed collocation, modification, or replacement of
utility poles or support structures where approved pursuant to this franchise
shall cause only the minimum possible interference with the use of the rights-
of-way and shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon and interference
with the rights and reasonable convenience of the property owners who adjoin
said rights-of-way;
            9.   The height of all portions of the small wireless facility
shall be located at least eight feet above ground level so as not to interfere
with pedestrian or vehicle traffic;
            10.   No portions of the small wireless facility shall extend
horizontally from the surface of the utility pole or collocated support
structure more than 16 inches;
            11.   If the proposed utility pole or support structure the person
proposes to locate its small wireless facility on is not structurally sound,
but the Director finds such site to be a desired location, the Director can
require the person to install a substantially similar utility pole or support
structure, at the person's cost; and
            12.   Notwithstanding the maximum size descriptions which define a
small wireless facility contained in ILCS Ch. 50, Act 840, § 10 or otherwise
contained in applicable law, the proposed installation or collocation shall
endeavor to use the smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures,
power pedestals, and/or cabinets then in use by the person, regardless of
location, for the particular application.
         (b)   The City Administrator may further waive one or more of these
requirements upon good cause shown by the person, and provided a showing that
the waiver is the minimum necessary to accomplish the purposes of this division
(P), or as otherwise required by applicable law. The burden of proof for any
waiver shall be wholly on the person and must be shown by clear and convincing
evidence.
   (Q)   Utility responsible for costs. The utility shall be responsible for
all reasonable costs borne by the city that are directly associated with the
utility's installation, maintenance, repair, operation, use, and replacement of
its facilities in the rights-of-way that are not otherwise accounted for as
part of a permit fee established pursuant to this chapter, to the extent
permitted by law. All such costs shall be itemized, and the city's books and
records related to these costs shall be made available upon request of the
utility.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Admin. Code 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   ANTENNA. Any device that transmits and/or receives radio waves for voice,
data or video communications purposes, including, but not limited to,
television, AM/FM radio, microwave, cellular telephone and similar forms of
communications. A combination of panels, boxes, or other antenna physically
connected and designed in conjunction to receive signals at one location in the
system shall be considered one ANTENNA.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a franchise, license, or any permit or
other authorization to install, maintain, repair or otherwise physically access
facilities in the rights-of-way under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as
carrier pipes, electrical conductors and fiber optic devices.
   CITY. The City of Troy, Illinois.
   CITY UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in public
rights-of-way.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the City of Troy, Illinois.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION, CONSTRUCT or BUILDING OPERATIONS. The installation, repair,
maintenance, placement, alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or
abandonment in place of facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The city's Director of Public Works or his or her
designee.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way, or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antenna, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, transmitters, meters,
foundations, poles, towers, conduits, grates, covers, pipes, cables and
appurtenances thereto, and any other equipment, infrastructure, structures or
obstruction) located on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within
rights-of-way under this chapter. FACILITY shall not include a temporary,
lawful presence on rights-of-way such as vehicular parking.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT or FRANCHISE. A binding and accepted ordinance or right-
of-way agreement with a person or utility, executed by the city, authorizing
the operation of facilities within the rights-of-way of the city.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway, where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material that, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location or other characteristics, is determined by the
City Engineer (Director of Public Works) to pose an unreasonable and imminent
risk to the life, health or safety of persons, property or to the ecological
balance of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives,
radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons,
etiology (biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance
determined to be hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or
regulation.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic,
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, ILCS Ch. 605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the State Cable and
Video Competition Law, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   INCIDENTAL USE. Facilities of a minor nature, such as mailboxes, driveway
aprons, private cross- connections or other incidental facilities, that may be
permitted by license issued by the Director as provided herein.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means,
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   LICENSE. The executed agreement between the city and a person to use and
occupy the rights-of-way for the purpose of installing incidental facilities in
the rights-of-way, or incidental uses such as ingress and egress facilities,
lateral lines, mailboxes or driveway aprons.
   LINEAR FOOT. The length in feet of cable, wire, fiber, conduit or other
linear facilities. Facilities that are physically connected, wrapped or lashed
as a single cable, conduit or bundle of cables or conduit shall be considered a
single facility for purposes of calculating each linear foot, provided that
each conduit or bundle of conduit, up to and including four inches in exterior
diameter, shall constitute a separate facility for calculating linear feet.
Conduit having fiber optic or other cable or wire installed within it shall not
be considered separate facilities, but shall be considered part of the single
"conduit" or bundle for purposes of calculating linear feet. Each utility shall
be subject to a separate linear foot charge for facilities used by the utility
and subject to this code.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to §§
54.04 and
54.05 of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, governmental entity, or any natural person, including, but not
limited to, utilities and licensees as referenced herein.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products, including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane or coal slurry.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe, expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROW. The area on, under, along, across or
above any street, alley, roadway, other land or waterway, dedicated or commonly
used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar purposes, in which
the city has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the city, and including such
adjacent areas within such public ways within city control, except as may be
limited herein or by law. RIGHT-OF-WAY, RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROW shall not include
any real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences, and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. The part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications, and all services rendered in connection
therewith, for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. The amount of security required pursuant to §
54.10 of this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge, and an area for emergency vehicular stops and
storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless communications facility that meets both
of the following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached to a utility pole or support
structure, associated with the small wireless facility, is cumulatively no more
than 25 cubic feet in volume, calculated to the extent permitted by law.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A free-standing structure such as a billboard or other
structure designed to, or capable of, supporting wireless communications
facilities. A SUPPORT STRUCTURE shall not include a utility pole.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
      (1)   This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated non-traffic-
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
      (2)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value-added services in which
computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and
protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
      (3)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications
by a telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the
service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who
originates or terminates the end-to-end communications.
      (4)   TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable
services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of
1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the city
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. §§ 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Means and includes every person engaged in
making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. A person owning, controlling, leasing, maintaining, using,
installing, or operating any facility as defined in this chapter, and including
all persons subject to the requirement of a franchise or license. A UTILITY may
be made up of multiple persons. As defined in this chapter, a UTILITY does not
require that the person be certified as a "public utility" by the ICC pursuant
to the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.). For
purposes of this chapter, a UTILITY does not include the city except as may
otherwise be required by law.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a utility or for electric distribution, lighting, or traffic control.
UTILITY POLE shall not include a support structure.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in § 21-201(v) of the State Cable and
Video Competition Law of 2007, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 21-201(v).
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED; APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Annual registration required. Every utility that occupies a right-of-
way within the city shall register on January 1 of each year with the City
Engineer, providing the utility's name, address and regular business telephone
and telecopy numbers, the name of one or more contact persons who can act on
behalf of the utility in connection with emergencies involving the utility's
facilities in the right-of-way, and a 24-hour telephone number for each such
person, and evidence of insurance, as required in §
54.08 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance.
   (B)   Franchise or license application required. An application for a
franchise or license, on city forms, shall be presented to the Director of
Public Works in writing, and shall include all such information as is required
by this section. The utility shall be responsible for accurately maintaining
the information in the application during the term of any franchise, and shall
be responsible for all costs incurred by the city due to the failure to provide
or maintain as accurate any application information required herein. Wherever
any application or code requirement is claimed to be preempted by state or
federal law, as applied to the circumstances of the applicant and proposed use
in the city, such preemption shall be specifically stated, citing the precise
provision of law and the specific requirement claimed to be preempted, along
with documentation establishing applicability to the circumstances or applicant
at issue.
   (C)   Application deposit fee. Except where inconsistent with applicable
law, a $2,500 application deposit fee for review, documentation and approval of
such franchise is required to be submitted with the application form to recover
any actual costs anticipated and incurred by the city in reviewing, documenting
or negotiating such franchise, provided that no costs shall be included if such
inclusion is prohibited by applicable law as to that person. If the actual
costs are thereafter determined to be less than the application deposit fee,
such amount shall be returned to the person, after written request therefrom.
If the actual costs exceed the application deposit fee, such person shall pay
such additional amount prior to issuance of any final city approval after
written notice from the city.
   (D)   Application form. An applicant shall submit a completed application
for a franchise on such form provided by the city, which shall include
information necessary to determine compliance with this chapter, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Identity and legal status of the applicant;
      (2)   Name, address, telephone number and email address of each officer,
agent or employee responsible for the accuracy of the application. Each
officer, agent or employee shall be familiar with the local facilities of the
applicant, shall be the person(s) to whom notices shall be sent, and shall be
responsible for facilitating all necessary communications, including, but not
limited to, certification to the city of any material changes to the
information provided in such completed application during the term of any
franchise;
      (3)   Name, address, telephone number and email address of the local
representative of the applicant, who shall be available at all times to act on
behalf of the applicant in the event of an emergency;
      (4)   Proof of any necessary permit, license, certification, grant,
registration, franchise, agreement or any other authorization required by any
appropriate governmental entity, including, but not limited to, the FCC;
      (5)   Description of the applicant's intended use of the rights-of-way,
including such information as to proposed services so as to determine the
applicable, federal, state and local regulatory provisions as may apply to such
person;
      (6)   A list of authorized agents, contractors and subcontractors
eligible to obtain permits on behalf of the applicant. The list may be updated
to add such person at the time of permit application if the updated information
on the application is submitted by an authorized representative of the
applicant;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance, as required in §
54.08 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance information
sufficient to determine the amount of net assets of the applicant;
      (8)   Information sufficient to determine whether the applicant is
subject under applicable law to franchising, service regulation, payment of
compensation for the use of the rights-of-way, taxation or other requirements
of the city;
      (9)   Any request to provide telecommunications shall also include all
requirements set forth in the Telephone Company Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65, §§
0.01 et seq.) or other applicable law; and
      (10)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Director of Public Works to determine requirements and compliance with
applicable regulations.
   (E)   Standard for approval or renewal of franchises. In reviewing an
application for a new or renewal of a franchise, the city may consider prior
conduct of the person in performance of its obligations or compliance with the
city's ordinances in the past, or the existence of any outstanding violations
or deficiencies. The city may deny or condition any franchise where the
proposed use would interfere with the public use of the rights-of-way or
otherwise conflict with the legitimate public interests of the city or as
otherwise provided by law. Applications for franchises may be approved, denied
or approved with conditions consistent with requirements of applicable law or
other applicable requirements as maybe necessary to fulfill the requirements
and objectives of this chapter.
   (F)   Approval process. After submission by the applicant of a duly executed
and completed application, including applicable application deposit fee, and an
executed franchise as may be provided by the Director of Public Works or as
modified by the Director of Public Works in review of the specific
circumstances of the application, all in conformity with the requirements of
this chapter and all applicable laws, the Director of Public Works shall submit
the franchise agreement to the City Council for approval. Upon determining
compliance with this chapter, the City Council may authorize execution of the
franchise (or a modified agreement otherwise acceptable to the city consistent
with the purposes of this chapter), and such executed franchise shall
constitute consent to use the rights-of-way; provided that nothing herein shall
preclude the rejection or modification of any executed franchise submitted to
the city, to the extent applicable law does not prohibit such rejection or
modification, including, where necessary to reasonably, and in a uniform or
nondiscriminatory manner, reflect the distinct engineering, construction,
operation, maintenance, public work or safety requirements applicable to the
person.
   (G)   Administrative approval process; form franchises.
      (1)   Various communication related users of the ROW may be subject to
various and differing state and federal approval requirements, including timing
requirements for expedited or shorter approval times. Accordingly, the City
Administrator shall have the authority pursuant to this division (G) to execute
on behalf of the city such franchise agreements as provided below that are
identical to, or substantially the same as, the city's "form" franchises
currently on file with the City Clerk, and incorporated herein, where such
franchise terms fully comply with applicable law under the application and
applicant at issue. Such administrative City Administrator approval be
authorized only for the following circumstance which may require more expedited
approvals:
         (a)   A franchise authorizing use of the ROW for facilities authorized
solely to provide "telecommunications at retail" as are subject to specific
state law definitions and requirements, specifically being limited to such
services as "sale of telecommunications at retail" as defined in ILCS Ch. 35,
Act 635, § 10 and "telecommunications" "sale at retail" as defined in ILCS Ch.
35, Act 636, § 5-7 as maybe applicable; and
         (b)   A franchise authorizing use of the ROW for facilities authorized
to provide communications services that may include both such
"telecommunications at retail" (being limited to such services as "sale of
telecommunications at retail" as defined in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 635, § 10 and
"telecommunications" "sale at retail" as defined in ILCS Ch. 35, Act 636, § 5-
7 as maybe applicable), and other services or facilities (including but not
limited to wholesale, dark fiber or other communications services that are not
"telecommunications at retail" and are subject to the city's linear foot fee as
provided for in §
54.23, except where may be otherwise provided by applicable law).
      (2)   To the extent not prohibited by applicable law, the City
Administrator may execute these form franchise agreements with applicants
without any additional approval by the City Council upon determination by the
City Administrator that the applicant satisfies the city's requirements and
policies for issuance of a franchise pursuant to this code. Failure to include
a specific form franchise shall in no way preclude an applicant seeking to
utilize the city's rights-of-way for any authorized service from applying for
such a franchise and receiving authorization as provided for by the City
Council in this division (G). The administrative approval process in this
division (G) shall not be available for any franchise or license not provided
for herein or any franchise or license for which the City Administrator
determines there are material changes to the form, or where full compliance
with the code has not been demonstrated. Upon determination by the City
Administrator that a form franchise agreement (or such form with any minor or
ministerial changes or clarifications from the application or review that are
consistent with the purposes of the policies and code of the city) may be
properly issued based on the application submitted, the City Administrator may
so indicate to the applicant and request an executed copy be returned to the
city for execution by the City Administrator within a reasonable time period
stated. If actual or potential regulatory or other deadlines warrant more
immediate action by the city, the City Administrator may alternatively send to
the applicant the completed franchise agreement already executed by the City
Administrator, which franchise agreement shall be valid only if thereafter
executed by applicant, dated and returned to the city all within seven calendar
days of the date of execution by the City Administrator. For purposes of this
division (G), RETURNED TO THE CITY shall mean a complying document delivered to
City Hall and date and time stamped by the counter clerk of such receipt. No
franchise or license shall be valid to authorize use of the ROW if not executed
by both parties in conformance with all applicable requirements of this code.
Such executed transmittal to the applicant shall be deemed completion of the
city's obligation under any applicable time requirements for a final decision.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter) any facility
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within any city right-of-way
which:
         (a)   Changes the location of the facility;
         (b)   Adds a new facility;
         (c)   Disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this chapter); or
         (d)   Materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the
facility on, over, above, along, under across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the City Engineer and obtaining a
permit from the city therefore, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of
service connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers
(including a 24-hour emergency contact telephone number);
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) regulations for emergency contingency plans
constitutes compliance with this section unless the city finds that additional
information or assurances are needed.
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
54.08 of this chapter;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
54.10 of this chapter;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
54.21 of this chapter); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city, to include, but not necessarily limited to, digital submission of data in
a format acceptable by the city for inclusion in the city's geographical
information system (GIS) such as spatially referenced digitized drawings.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, the permit application
shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific utility that
is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the Illinois Commerce Commission (ICC) or other jurisdictional
authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies, have
been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure and the design
standard to be followed.
      (6)   Small wireless facilities. To the extent permitted by applicable
law, the following additional application for small wireless facilities shall
be as follows:
         (a)   Additional information required. The following information shall
also be required on a permit for any small wireless facility:
            1.   A site-specific structural integrity report for each utility
pole and support structures, and for city utility poles and city-controlled
support structures, a makeready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989;
            2.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer
for each small wireless facility;
            3.   Location of each proposed small wireless facility would be
installed with photographs of the immediate surrounding areas depicting where
the small wireless facility would be mounted on its associated structure;
            4.   The equipment types and model numbers for the antennas and all
other equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion for
each small wireless facility;
            6.   Certification that the collocation proposed complies with the
city's requirements for collocation, to the extent permitted by applicable law,
including the existence of an enforceable franchise agreement between the city
and the utility, undergrounding requirements, design requirements, and all
other requirements of this chapter, including §
54.15, to the best of the applicant's knowledge; and
            7.   All application fees to the extent permitted by law. All
application fees to the city shall be non-refundable. If such application
requires replacement utility pole(s), such cost of the replacement utility pole
(s) will also be included in the application.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within 30 days after the change
necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $100 plus $0.10 per linear foot of
utility line construction, except for small wireless facilities, which shall be
the maximum amounts established by applicable law, including, but not limited
to, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 840, §§ 1 et seq. No application fee is required to be
paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act (ILCS Ch. 35, Act 645, §§ 5-1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   City review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the City Engineer
within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not conform to
the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
the City Engineer shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons
therefor. If the City Engineer is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to
the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules
and regulations, the City Engineer shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the City Engineer, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional city review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 4 of the Telephone Company Act, ILCS Ch. 220, Act 65,
§ 4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans, specifications
and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose and intent of the
facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications retailer to the
city not less than ten days prior to the commencement of work requiring no
excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the commencement of work
requiring excavation. The City Engineer shall specify the portion of the right-
of-way upon which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the City Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either (a)
ten days after service of notice to the city by the telecommunications retailer
in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction or (b) 25
days after service of notice by the telecommunications retailer in the case of
work involving excavation for new construction, the telecommunications retailer
may commence work without obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
54.04 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) above.
   (C)   Additional city review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, §§ 21-100 et seq.)
shall be deemed granted 45 days after submission to the city, unless otherwise
acted upon by the city, provided the holder has complied with applicable city
codes, ordinances and regulations.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights-of-way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the city with
such city representatives in attendance as the city deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
city does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within 90 days after the
completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for a variance in accordance with §
54.21 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license or similar
agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or constructing any facility in
the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the city, and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b) below:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse and underground hazard (commonly referred to as
"X", "C" and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
            1.   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each
person;
            2.   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any
one accident; and
            3.   Five million dollars for all other types of liability.
         (b)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles
with a combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property
damage for each accident;
         (c)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
         (d)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (2)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten days following receipt
of a written request therefor from the city.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages.
      (1)   The insurance policies required by this section shall contain the
following endorsement: "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may
not be canceled nor the intention not to renew be stated until 30 days after
receipt by the city, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt
requested, of a written notice addressed to the City Administrator of such
intent to cancel or not to renew".
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt by the city of the notice, and in no
event later than ten days prior to the cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) above. A
utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such self-
insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional insureds
under division (A) above, or the requirements of divisions (B), (C) and (D)
above. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage and limit requirements required under division (A) of this section,
such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-insurer" under the Workers
Compensation Act (ILCS Ch. 820, Act 305).
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state. (All insurance
carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better and of a class
size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.)
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license or similar agreement;
provided, however, that, the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall
not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or
expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach
of this chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The security fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
non-performance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this division
(B) shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the
state at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the City Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the city estimates are likely to be incurred if the
permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the city, with each phase consisting of construction of facilities
in one location or a related group of locations, and where construction in
another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial completion of
restoration in the previous phase or phases, the City Engineer may, in the
exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of
security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction under the
permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall be equal
to the greatest amount that would have been required under the provisions of
this division (C) for any single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The city, upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division (D), may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided that
the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the 14-day
notice period. Withdrawals maybe made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund, the permittee
shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in division (C) above.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for the withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) above.
   (G)   Closing and return of security fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after the account is taken for all offsets necessary to
compensate the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions
of this chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the
permit, the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall
become the property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable
costs, loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of the revocation;
provided that, any amounts in excess of the costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the city with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to the security fund shall affect
any other right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city
shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its
rights that may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   City right to revoke permit. The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      (1)   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
      (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-of-way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten days after receipt of the written notice of revocation. The
city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this division (C).
   (D)   Stop-work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop-work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) above.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply.
      (1)   If the permittee fails to comply with the provisions of division
(C) above, the city or its designee may, at the option of the city:
         (a)   Correct the deficiencies;
         (b)   Upon not less than 20 days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or
         (c)   After not less than 30 days' notice to the permittee of failure
to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and property of the city.
      (2)   The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city for all
costs of removal.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the city no less than
30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-of-way
or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or the
facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the former
owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and facilities in
the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right-of-
way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the City Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the City Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that, in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
54.20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division
(A).
      (1)   No interference with city facilities. No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the City Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the city's
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with, the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin the right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit the visibility of or by users of the right-of-
way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from the
pavement edge as practicable with a minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m)
outside the outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear
zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right- of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable maybe installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities. Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts or drainage facilities.
      (3)   Ninety-degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90-degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines (83 Ill.
Admin. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are not
highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the City
Engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and
backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking operations are completed.
While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades.
Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced and maintained so that it
will safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of § 603 of IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction.
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the City Engineer.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction. When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer (Director of Public Works), the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Engineer.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
54.21, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
            1.   Extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or
repair; and
            2.   Cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
Type of Facility                        Minimum Cover
Communication, cable or video service   18" to 24" (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                   city)
Electric lines                          30" (0.8 m)
Gas or petroleum products               30" (0.8 m)
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                    protection
Water line                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                        protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Admin. Code 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the State Commerce Commission) entitled Rules for Construction of
Electric Power and Communications Lines, and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided that,
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement maybe eliminated
only if:
               a.   The crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip
augers" or other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening
for cable installation; or
               b.   The installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles", "whip augers" or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of Pipeline
Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 - Transportation of
Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety Standards (49 C.F.R.
part 192), IDOT's Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction and
all other applicable laws, rules and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, stormwater sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois.
      (6)   Ground-mounted appurtenances. Ground-mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy-duty plastic or
similar material approved by the City Engineer. With the approval of the City
Engineer, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place of
vegetation-free area. The housing for ground-mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, the requirements of the State
Commerce Commission or the standards established by other official regulatory
agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the City Engineer. When
such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms or other
materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right-of-way, prior approval must be obtained from
the city.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the City Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence and
location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the rights-
of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground
facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with
the State Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 50,
§§ 1 et seq.).
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities; compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable state laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities; tree trimming permit required. Tree-trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable state laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the City Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the city, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city
improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon, the rights-
of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within 90 days.
Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to remove all
or any portion of the facility if the City Engineer determines that such
removal will be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare.
In the event that the city does not direct the utility that abandoned the
facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the city, the
abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of
all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the City Engineer. Such clean-up and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding or
any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the City Engineer for
good cause shown.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify
noncompliance with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
City Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency, informing
him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the traveling
public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If the nature
of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of traffic, the
City Police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the City Engineer as
a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision of
this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a variance
should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The City Engineer shall decide whether a
variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in the
variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The City Engineer may authorize a
variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the City Engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the City
Engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the City Council, or such other committee, board or commission as it may
designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the City
Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. The City Council shall commence its consideration of the appeal
at the Council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven days
after the filing of the appeal. The City Council shall timely decide the
appeal.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.23 COMPENSATION FOR USE OF THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Use fees.
      (1)   Unless otherwise lawfully established by the City Council, or as
required by applicable law, utilities shall pay to the city as monthly
compensation for the use of the rights-of-way, other than for incidental uses,
a monthly use fee of:
         (a)   One thousand dollars per month for the first mile of linear
facilities, or part thereof, plus up to $0.10 per linear foot per month
thereafter; and
         (b)   Two hundred dollars per month for each antenna in the rights-of-
way, or such other amounts as established by the City Council.
      (2)   Linear foot fees shall be due and payable on a monthly basis within
30 calendar days of the close of each month for which the payment applies. If
any use fee, or any portion thereof, is not postmarked or delivered on or
before the due date, interest thereon shall accrue from the due date until
received, at the rate of 1.5% per month, unless such other maximum rate is
established by law.
      (3)   Credit. The utility shall be entitled to a credit to the linear
foot fee owed pursuant to division (A)(1)(a) above in the final amount of any
payments owed under the Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax (ILCS Ch.
35, Act 636, §§ 5-1 et seq., "SMTT") and paid to the city for the same period;
provided such amount is specifically shown and documented in the applicable fee
statement accompanying the linear foot payment and such credit shall not exceed
the amount of linear foot fee owed for that period.
      (4)   The use fee required in this section shall be paid by the utility
as required herein without offset, credit, refund, or deduction except for such
credit as is expressly provided for above for SMTT paid.
      (5)   Limitation. Nothing herein shall require payment of use fees
described in this division (A) to the extent such use fees are prohibited by
applicable law, including for placement of small wireless facilities as defined
in ILCS Ch. 50, Act 840, § 10 to the extent such use fees would be prohibited
or otherwise limited by federal or state law.
   (B)   Bundled services. The utility expressly acknowledges and agrees that,
to the extent it markets bundled services, including a combination of goods or
services that maybe subject to this chapter, it will fairly reflect to the city
an appropriate and reasonable division of services among the various services
offered, based on the actual value of each separate service. Whether or not the
utility separates services on a subscriber's bill, it will provide to the city
notice of any such allocation sufficient for city verification. Should the
utility engage in billing or payment practices that, in the reasonable
determination of the city, do not fairly reflect a fair and appropriate
allocation, the city may nullify such allocation and require payment applicable
to the full receipts.
   (C)   Fee statement. Each use fee payment shall be accompanied by a
statement showing the manner in which the use fee was calculated, and in such
format as may be required by the city. If any fee statement is determined to
understate the fee owed, then such additional amount owed shall be made with a
corrected statement, including interest on the amount as provided herein.
Within 90 calendar days following the end of the calendar year, each licensee
shall submit a statement, certified as true, setting forth its gross revenues,
the amount of linear foot and antennae within the facilities, and describing
what revenues or receipts (including each type of services were included and
excluded in the fee calculations for the calendar year, and describing any
adjustments, additional payments or credits) arising from information not known
and reflected as of the payment date. Any required additional payment shall be
included with the report, any credit shall be deducted from the following
annual payment.
   (D)   No accord and satisfaction. No acceptance by the city of any use fee
shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct
amount, nor shall acceptance of any use fee payment be construed as a release
of any claim of the city.
   (E)   Maintain records. Utilities shall at all times maintain complete and
accurate books of account, and records of the business, ownership, and
operations of the utility with respect to the facilities, in a manner that
allows the city to determine whether the utility has properly calculated its
use fee in compliance with this chapter. Should the city reasonably determine
that the records are not being maintained in such manner, the utility shall
correct the manner in which the books and/or records are maintained so that the
utility comes into compliance with this section. All financial books and
records maintained in accordance with FCC regulations and the regulations of
any governmental entity regulating utilities in Illinois, and generally
accepted accounting principles, shall be deemed to be acceptable under this
section. Such books and records shall be maintained for a period of at least
five years, but nothing herein shall limit the years or scope of audit if
reasonably related to determining or enforcing compliance.
   (F)   Right of inspection. The city or its designated representatives shall
have the right to inspect, examine or audit, during normal business hours and
upon seven calendar-day notice, all documents, records or other information
that pertains to the facilities within the ROW and/or the utility's user fee
obligations. In addition to access to the records of utility for audits, upon
request, the utility shall provide reasonable access to records necessary to
verify compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code. There maybe times when the city will
incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the utility
will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless
the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the
requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city's costs of
damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating or
removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No other
administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit-related
cost apportionment of the city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that
does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2022-61, passed 11-7-2022)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of Illinois Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Pedestrians standing on sidewalks
Driving While Intoxicated
   
70.15   Prohibited
   
70.16   Admissibility of chemical analysis tests; presumptions
   
70.17   Introduction of other evidence of intoxication
   
70.18   Blood samples
   
70.19   Person tested may have physician administer test
   
70.20   Availability of chemical test to defendant and his or her attorney
   
70.21   Refusal to take test
   
70.22   Reports of violations
Abandoned Vehicles
   
70.40   Definitions
   
70.41   Exemptions
   
70.42   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
70.43   Leaving wrecked, nonoperating and the like vehicles on streets
   
70.44   Impoundment and disposition
Vehicle Seizure and Impoundment
   
70.60   Nuisance declared
   
70.61   Seizure and impoundment
   
70.62   Administrative fees
   
70.63   Notice of hearing
   
70.64   Hearing
   
70.65   Right to possession of vehicle
Non-Highway Vehicle Regulations
   
70.80   Definitions
   
70.81   General provisions
   
70.82   Permits
   
70.83   Fees
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq.
   DWI, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-501 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the Illinois Vehicle Code, being ILCS
Chapter 625, as if set forth at length herein.
(1986 Code, § 14-1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt Vehicle Code, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204
§ 70.02 PEDESTRIANS STANDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if the standing
interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(1986 Code, § 14-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED
§ 70.15 PROHIBITED.
   No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive or be
in actual physical control of any vehicle within the city.
(1986 Code, § 14-91) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 ADMISSIBILITY OF CHEMICAL ANALYSIS TESTS; PRESUMPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon the trial of any action or proceeding arising out of the acts
alleged to have been committed by any person while driving or in actual
physical control of a vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
evidence of the amount of alcohol in the person’s blood at the time of the act
alleged as shown by a chemical analysis of his or her breath, blood, urine,
saliva or other bodily substance is admissible, and the result of any such
analysis shall give rise to the following presumptions.
      (1)   If there was at the time of the analysis 0.05% or less by weight of
alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person was not
under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
      (2)   If there was at the time of the analysis in excess of 0.05%, but
less than 0.10% by weight of alcohol in the person’s blood, the facts shall not
give rise to any presumption that the person was or was not under the influence
of intoxicating liquor, but that fact may be considered with other competent
evidence in determining whether the person was under the influence of
intoxicating liquor.
      (3)   If there was at the time of the analysis 0.10% or more by weight of
alcohol in the person’s blood, it shall be presumed that the person was under
the influence of intoxicating liquor.
   (B)   Percent by weight of alcohol in the blood shall be based upon grams of
alcohol per 100 milliliters (100 ml) of blood or grams of alcohol per 210
liters (210 l) of breath.
(1986 Code, § 14-92) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.17 INTRODUCTION OF OTHER EVIDENCE OF INTOXICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not be construed as limiting the
introduction of any other competent evidence bearing upon the question whether
or not the defendant was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
(1986 Code, § 14-93) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.18 BLOOD SAMPLES.
   When an unconscious person or person otherwise incapable of refusal is given
a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under the provisions
of this subchapter, only a physician authorized to practice medicine in all its
branches, a registered nurse or other qualified person may withdraw blood, in a
manner described by the State Department of Public Health for the purpose of
determining the alcoholic content therein.
(1986 Code, § 14-94) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.19 PERSON TESTED MAY HAVE PHYSICIAN ADMINISTER TEST.
   Person tested pursuant to this subchapter may have a physician authorized to
practice medicine in all its branches, a qualified technician, chemist,
registered nurse or other qualified person of his or her own choosing to
administer a chemical test or tests, at his or her own expense, in addition to
any tests administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The
failure or inability to obtain an additional test by a person does not preclude
the admission of evidence relating to the test or tests taken at the direction
of a law enforcement officer.
(1986 Code, § 14-95) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.20 AVAILABILITY OF CHEMICAL TEST TO DEFENDANT AND HIS OR HER ATTORNEY.
   Upon the request of the person who submitted to a chemical test or tests at
the request of a law enforcement officer, full information concerning the test
or tests shall be made available to him or her or his or her attorney.
(1986 Code, § 14-96) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.21 REFUSAL TO TAKE TEST.
   Evidence of a refusal to submit to a chemical test is inadmissible in any
civil action or proceeding, or any action under this subchapter. However,
nothing in this section shall prevent the admission of evidence of the refusal
in a hearing on the suspension of a person’s privilege to operate a motor
vehicle under state law.
(1986 Code, § 14-97) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
§ 70.22 REPORTS OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any convictions under this subchapter shall be promptly reported by the
Police Department to the Secretary of State.
(1986 Code, § 14-98) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981)
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 70.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Any machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners or slides and which
transports persons or property or pulls machinery and shall include without
limitation automobiles, trucks, trailers, motorcycles, tractors, buggies and
wagons.
(1986 Code, § 14-146)
§ 70.41 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to vehicles in enclosed
buildings, vehicles on the premises of business enterprises operated in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise or to vehicles in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city.
(1986 Code, § 14-147)
§ 70.42 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall abandon any vehicle within the city and no person
shall leave any vehicle at any place within the city for such time and under
such circumstances as to cause the vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property within the city,
whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any
partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or discarded vehicle to
remain on his or her property longer than 72 hours, and no person shall leave
any vehicle on any property within the city for more than 72 hours.
(1986 Code, § 14-148) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 LEAVING WRECKED, NONOPERATING AND THE LIKE VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or
junked vehicle on any street or highway within the city. The term NONOPERATING
VEHICLE shall include but not be limited to a vehicle with no current license
plates issued and affixed to it.
(1986 Code, § 14-149) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION.
   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated by him
or her is hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any
place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation of this
subchapter or which appears lost, stolen or unclaimed. The vehicle shall be
impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance with ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 through 4-214.
(1986 Code, § 14-150)
VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
§ 70.60 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle used in connection with the following shall be
declared a public nuisance and subject to seizure and impoundment under this
subchapter:
      (1)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101, operating a motor
vehicle with an expired license, permit, or a restricted driving permit if the
period of expiration is greater than one year, or operating a motor vehicle
without ever having been issued a driver’s license or permit; ILCS Ch. 625, Act
5, § 6-303, driving while driver’s license, permit or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked, except a person whose driver’s license,
permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended only for an unpaid
citation (parking or moving) or a violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 13 et
seq., the Emissions Inspection Law; a violation of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
204, fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-
204.1, aggravated fleeing or attempting to elude a peace officer; ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 11-401, motor vehicle accident involving death or personal injuries;
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-402, motor vehicle accident involving damage to
vehicle; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-403, duty to give information and render
aid; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-404, duty upon damaging unattended vehicle or
other property; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501, driving under the influence of
alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any
combination thereof; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-503, reckless driving or
aggravated reckless driving; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506, street racing,
aggravated street racing or ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601.5, driving 40 miles
an hour or more in excess of the applicable limit of the vehicle code, or
against whom a warrant has been issued by a Circuit Court for failing to appear
to answer charges that the person was:
         (a)   Operating a motor vehicle with an expired driver’s license (ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-101);
         (b)   Operating a motor vehicle while that person’s license was
suspended or revoked (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-303); or
         (c)   Operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of alcohol,
other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination
thereof (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-501);
      (2)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-6, indecent solicitation
of a child; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 11-26, traveling to meet a minor; ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 12-2, aggravated assault; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5,§ 12-3.05,
aggravated battery; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4.2, aggravated battery with a
firearm; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-4.3, aggravated battery of a child; ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 12-4.6, aggravated battery of a senior citizen; ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, § 12-7.3, stalking; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16A-3, retail theft, when the
value of the merchandise exceeds $150; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-1, robbery;
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 18-2, armed robbery; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-1,
burglary; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 19-3, residential burglary; ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5, § 20-1, arson; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 20-1.1, aggravated arson; ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 20-2, possession of explosives or explosive or incendiary
devices; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1, criminal damage to property; or ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 25-1(a)(1) or ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1(d), mob action; of the
Illinois Criminal Code;
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 12-4.2, 12-4.3 and 12-4.6 were repealed by P.A. 96-
1551, eff. 7-1- 2011, and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16A-3 was repealed by P.A. 97-
597, eff. 1-1-2012
      (3)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401, manufacture of
controlled or counterfeit substance or controlled substance analog prohibited;
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 401.1, controlled substance trafficking; or ILCS Ch.
720, Act 570, § 402(a), (b), or (c), possession of controlled or counterfeit
substance, of the Controlled Substances Act;
      (4)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 4, possession of more than
ten grams of any substance containing cannabis; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5,
manufacture, delivery, or possession with intent to deliver or manufacture
prohibited; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 5.1, cannabis trafficking; ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 550, § 5.2, delivery of cannabis on school grounds; or ILCS Ch. 720, Act
550, § 8, unauthorized production or possession of cannabis sativa plant, of
the Cannabis Control Act;
      (5)   A violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, § 3.5, possession of drug
paraphernalia, of the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act; or
      (6)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, any other misdemeanor or felony offense in violation of the
Criminal Code of 1961, when so provided by local ordinance.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle which is used in connection with the following shall
also be declared a public nuisance and subject to seizure and impoundment under
this article: a violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1, unlawful use of
weapons; ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-1.5, reckless discharge of a firearm; ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.1, unlawful possession of firearms and firearm
ammunition; or ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-3.3, unlawful sale or delivery of
firearms on the premises of any school. This division (B) shall not apply when
the exemptions are satisfied as set forth in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 24-2.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 12-19-2011; Ord. 2012-01, passed 2-6-2012) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this subchapter, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle according to police
department procedures. When the motor vehicle is towed, the police officer
shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the owner, lessee, or
person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or
the person who is found to be in control of the motor vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure
and of the motor vehicle owner’s right to request a hearing. The motor vehicle
shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearing provided for in this
subchapter, unless the owner of the motor vehicle posts with the city a cash
bond equal to the administrative fee as provided by this subchapter and pays
for all towing and storage charges.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 70.62 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   (A)   The owner of record of such motor vehicle subject to seizure and
impoundment shall be liable to the city for an administrative fee of $200 in
addition to any towing and storage charges. In cases where the owner of record
is indigent and presents sufficient information to ascertain assets and
liabilities demonstrating an unreasonable hardship or peculiar difficulties,
the amount of the administrative fee may be modified by the Chief of Police or
designee. This article is in addition to and shall not replace or otherwise
abrogate any existing state or federal laws or any ordinance that relates to
the seizure and/or impoundment of motor vehicles, and any fee in this article
shall be in addition to any and all penalties that may be assessed or imposed
by a court for any criminal charges.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall not apply:
         (a)   If the motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at that
time and the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24
hours after the theft was discovered;
         (b)   If the motor vehicle is operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurs without the knowledge of the person in control of the motor
vehicle; or
         (c)   If the motor vehicle is subject to successful forfeiture
proceedings under ILCS Ch. 725, Act 150, §§ 1 et seq., the Drug Asset
Forfeiture Procedure Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq., the Seizure and
Forfeiture of Vessels, Vehicles and Aircraft Act, or state or federal
forfeiture laws.
      (2)   For purposes of this subchapter, the OWNER OF RECORD or OWNER of a
motor vehicle is the record title holder as registered with the Secretary of
State, State of Illinois or a lessee who has possession, use, control and
responsibility of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 70.63 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The owner shall be afforded the opportunity for a hearing, as provided in
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(4), and if the owner requests such a hearing
within ten days after a motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to this
article, the city shall notify by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, the owner of record, of the date, time and location of a
hearing that will be conducted pursuant to this subchapter. The notice shall
state the fees that may be imposed, and that a motor vehicle not released by
cash bond and remaining in the city may be sold or disposed of by the city in
accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 70.64 HEARING.
   The hearing shall be conducted and held, unless affirmatively waived by the
owner, or continued by the owner or by order of the hearing officer, no later
than 45 days after the motor vehicle was seized, unless the motor vehicle was
subject to unsuccessful forfeiture proceedings, in which case the hearing shall
be conducted and held, unless affirmatively waived by the owner, or continued
by the owner or by order of the hearing officer, no later than 45 days after
the conclusion of the forfeiture proceedings. The hearing officer shall be an
attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois for a minimum of
three years. All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at the hearing. At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing
officer may, at the request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and
give testimony at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at
the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after the hearing,
the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that the motor
vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of the owner, was
used in the commission of any of the violations set forth in this subchapter,
and that none of the exceptions applies, the hearing officer shall enter an
order finding the owner of record of the motor vehicle civilly liable to the
city for an administrative fee in the amount as set forth above which shall
constitute a debt due and owing to the city. If the owner of record fails to
appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall enter a default order finding
the owner of record of the motor vehicle civilly liable to the city for an
administrative fee in the amount as set forth above which shall constitute a
debt due and owing to the city, and a copy of which default order shall be sent
to the registered owner via certified mail, return receipt requested. If a cash
bond has been posted the bond shall be applied. If a motor vehicle has been
impounded when such administrative fee is imposed, the city may seek to obtain
a judgment on the debt and enforce such judgment against the motor vehicle as
provided by law. However, if the hearing officer finds that no such violation
occurred, the hearing officer shall order the return of the motor vehicle or
cash bond, but the owner shall be responsible for any towing and storage
charges. All final decisions of the hearing officer shall be subject to review
under the provisions of ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., the
Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 2011-22, passed 12-19-2011)
§ 70.65 RIGHT TO POSSESSION OF VEHICLE.
   A lienholder asserting its right to possession of an impounded vehicle
pursuant to a conditional sales or loan agreement may obtain immediate release
of such vehicle by paying the applicable towing and storage charges and by
submitting to the city a photocopy of the conditional sales or loan agreement
and title certificate, an affidavit stating that the purchaser is in default of
the agreement, and a hold harmless indemnification agreement executed in favor
of the city by an authorized agent of the lienholder.
(Ord. 2016-33, passed 12-19-2016)
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE REGULATIONS
§ 70.80 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized, off-highway device designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer's dry
weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more non-highway tires,
designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control,
except equipment such as lawn mowers.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the City of Troy.
   COUNTY ROADS. Any highway or road under the jurisdiction the Madison County,
Illinois.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the conditions of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   STATE ROADS. Any highway under the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-7-2021)
§ 70.81 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   All persons wishing to operate an allowed non-highway vehicle of the city
streets must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Must have the minimum required liability insurance as set out in ILCS
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 7-601 et seq., and maintain proof of said insurance
specifically for said non-highway vehicle within the permitted vehicle;
   (B)   Annual registration with the city is required of any non-highway
vehicles operated upon city streets;
   (C)   Must have the vehicle certified with the city by inspection which will
be conducted by the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
   (D)   Must comply with the rules established within this ordinance which may
be periodically updated;
   (E)   Driver of any non-highway vehicle, as outlined in this subchapter,
must be at least 18 years of age and possess a valid Illinois driver's license;
   (F)   All non-highway vehicles must be equipped as follows:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake lights;
      (3)   Turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Rearview mirror;
      (7)   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle,
as required by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-709;
      (8)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the rear, orange/yellow in the
front;
      (9)   Headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of 500,
illuminated at all times when operated on city streets;
      (10)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear, illuminated at all times when operated on city streets;
      (11)   At least two brake lights which emit a red light visible from a
distance of 100 feet from the rear;
      (12)   Turn signals mounted on the front and rear of the vehicle;
      (13)   Windshield;
      (14)   All-terrain vehicles must be equipped with seatbelts;
      (15)   Golf carts are not required to be equipped with seatbelts, unless
a child safety or booster seat is utilized.
   (G)   All drivers of non-highway vehicles must obey all traffic laws of the
State of Illinois and the City of Troy;
   (H)   Non-highway vehicles may be operated only on city streets with a speed
limit of 25 miles per hour or less as designated by Chapter 71;
   (I)   Non-highway vehicles must not be operated in excess of posted speed
limits and may not be operated at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour;
   (J)   Non-highway vehicles may not be operated on U.S. Highway 40, Illinois
Route 162, Collinsville Road, West Center Street, East Center Street, South
Dewey Street, Wayland Avenue, Creekside Drive, Bouse Road, or any other highway
or roadway under the jurisdiction of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
However, drivers of non-highway vehicles may cross such roadways and highways
at a 90-degree angle at predesignated locations identified by the Police Chief
of the city. City streets that cannot be traveled on or crossed are Riggin
Road, Clay Street, Staunton Road, and Troy O'Fallon Road. Non-highway vehicles
may not be operated within Tri Township Park;
   (K)   Operation of non-highway vehicles will be permitted between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
   (L)   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of an allowed
non-highway vehicle, as described herein, on a roadway shall not operate such
vehicle while under the influence of alcohol and/or drugs and shall be subject
to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5 §§ 11-500 through 11-502;
   (M)   Non-highway vehicles may not be operated on sidewalks, trails, Madison
County Transit (MCT) Trails, or other public property not accessible to or
authorized to vehicular traffic;
   (N)   All non-highway vehicles permitted on city streets shall have
headlights and tail lamps illuminated at all times while being operated upon
city streets.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-7-2021)
§ 70.82 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an allowed non-highway vehicle without first
obtaining a permit from the office of the Police Chief as provided herein.
Permits shall be granted for each calendar year beginning January 1 and ending
December 31, and renewed annually. The cost of a permit shall be set forth in
Appendix A: Fee Schedule, of this code. Insurance coverage is to be verified by
Police Department staff to be in effect when obtaining and renewing a permit.
Stickers issued for permitted vehicles must be displayed in a visible location
on the rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a from supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
      (3)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      (4)   Serial number, make, model and description of the allowed non-
highway vehicle;
      (5)   Signed and notarized waiver of liability by applicant (the city
will provide a waiver form) releasing the city and agreeing to indemnify and
hold the city harmless from any and all future claims resulting from the
operation of their allowed non-highway vehicle on the city streets;
      (6)   A copy of the inspection form noting a passing status (the city
will provide an inspection form).
   (C)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, to ensure the vehicle is safe to operate on city streets and is in
compliance with this subchapter and with the State of Illinois Vehicle Code;
      (2)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter and Illinois Statutes regarding minimum
liability insurance for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of
the State of Illinois;
      (3)   The applicant must provide a signed and notarized waiver of
liability, releasing the city and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city
harmless from any and all future claims resulting from the operation of their
allowed non-highway vehicle on the city streets;
      (4)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician certifying the applicant is able to safely operate an allowed
non-highway vehicle on city streets.
   (D)   Permits are not transferable.
   (E)   A permit may be denied for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The vehicle is not properly titled with the Illinois Secretary of
State, if required;
      (2)   Insurance information for the vehicle cannot be verified;
      (3)   The registered owner does not have a valid driver's license;
      (4)   The vehicle does not conform to the requirements of this
subchapter;
      (5)   The owner has provided any false information in their application;
      (6)   The applicant or a permitted operator has had two or more
convictions for a violation of this subchapter within the preceding year;
      (7)   A permit issued to another individual for the same vehicle is under
suspension or revocation.
   (F)   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this
subchapter or there is evidence the permittee cannot safely operate an allowed
non-highway vehicle on the designated roadways. A suspended or revoked permit
may only be reinstated by the Chief of Police or a majority vote of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-7-2021)
§ 70.83 FEES.
   (A)   Permit fees as determined by the City Council, shall be set forth in
Appendix A: Fee Schedule, and may be amended from time to time. The permit will
be valid for the calendar year for which it was issued.
   (B)   Permit renewal fees, payable to the city, as determined by the City
Council shall be set forth in
Appendix A: Fee Schedule and may be amended from time to time. The renewed
permit will be valid for the calendar year for which it was issued.
(Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-7-2021)
Editor’s note:
   This subchapter shall expire on December 31,2023 unless a majority action of
the City Council extends it, as provided in Ordinance 2022-03.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of §§
70.15 through
70.22 shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99 and to the extent required by state law in accordance with the provisions
of state law.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
70.80 to
70.83 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be issued an ordinance
violation ticket (OVT). A second or subsequent offense shall result in an OVT
and the suspension or revocation of the permit for a period of not less than
one year nor more than five years, as determined by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   To the extent any violation of this §§
70.80 to
70.83 also constitutes a violation of a traffic and/or criminal statute of the
State of Illinois, then the violator shall also be subject to traffic and/or
criminal prosecution.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to provide false information in the
application for a permit to operate a non-highway vehicle on the city streets
of the city.
(1986 Code, § 14-99) (Ord. 1981-9, passed 7-20-1981; Ord. 2022-03, passed 2-7-
2021)
Editor's note:
   Division (C) of this section shall expire on December 31,2023 unless a
majority action of the City Council extends it, as provided in Ordinance 2022-
03.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Obedience to traffic signs
   
71.02   Posting signs
   
71.03   Through streets designated
   
71.04   Yield right-of-way streets
   
71.05   Stop intersections designated
   
71.06   Duty to stop at posted intersections
   
71.07   One-way streets or alleys
   
71.08   Trucks prohibited on designated streets
   
71.09   Limited load streets
Speed Limitations
   
71.20   Safe speed requirements
   
71.21   Maximum limits established
   
71.22   Altered speed limits; posting signs
   
71.23   State and county roads
   
71.24   Speed restrictions for vehicles of the second division
   
71.25   School zones established; signposting; speed limits
   
71.26   Speed limits on specified roads
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC SIGNS.
   All vehicles in the city, with the exception of emergency vehicles while on
emergency service, will comply with all traffic-control signs, including stop
signs and yield signs, within the city, which signs have been installed by city
employees or representatives pursuant to law.
(1986 Code, § 14-16) (Ord. 1982-2, passed 2-1-1982) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 POSTING SIGNS.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall post or cause to be posted suitable
signs for all through streets, one-way streets or alleys, stop intersections
and yield right-of-way streets.
(1986 Code, § 14-17)
§ 71.03 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   The streets and parts of streets designated as through streets are tabulated
in
Chapter 73, Schedule I.
(1986 Code, § 14-18)
§ 71.04 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   Any street designated by ordinance as a yield right-of-way street and so
posted is hereby declared to be a yield right-of-way street. These are
tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule II.
(1986 Code, § 14-19) (Ord. 2006-09, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 71.05 STOP INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED.
   The streets and parts of streets designated as stop streets are tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule VI.
(1986 Code, § 14-52) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 DUTY TO STOP AT POSTED INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to this code or other
ordinance and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so obliged
to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at the intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(1986 Code, § 14-53) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by this code or other ordinances in any
direction other than that so designated.
(1986 Code, § 14-20) (Ord. 1990-6, passed 3-5-1990) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON DESIGNATED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only on any street designated by ordinance and
properly signposted.
(1986 Code, § 14-21) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle on any street in the city when the
gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of the vehicle exceeds
16,000 pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by ordinance and signs indicating
those limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in
excess of that weight on that street, except for the purpose of making delivery
or picking up a load, in which case the vehicle may be driven on the street for
not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose. Streets thus
specified are tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule III.
(1986 Code, § 14-22) (Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-17-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
SPEED LIMITATIONS
§ 71.20 SAFE SPEED REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any street of the city at a speed which
is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and
the use of the street, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The
fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed
limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going around a
curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or winding
roadway or when a special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (B)   No person may drive a vehicle upon any street of this city at a speed
which is greater than the applicable statutory maximum speed limit, or the
posted maximum speed limit, whichever is slower.
(1986 Code, § 14-31) (Ord. 1981-15, passed 8-3-1981) Penalty, see §
71.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-601
§ 71.21 MAXIMUM LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   Unless otherwise posted, it shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on
any street at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour or in an alley at a speed
in excess of 15 miles per hour. Signs announcing the fact that the general
maximum speed limit in the city is 25 miles per hour, unless otherwise posted,
shall be placed on all roads within the city’s jurisdiction at the point where
these roads enter the city.
(1986 Code, § 14-32) (Ord. 1985-18, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 ALTERED SPEED LIMITS; POSTING SIGNS.
   If the Mayor and City Council by ordinance set speed limits other than those
designated in this subchapter as provided by state law after an engineering or
traffic survey, then those limits shall govern the rate of speed on the streets
indicated in the ordinance. Appropriate signs shall be posted showing the speed
limits.
(1986 Code, § 14-33)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606
§ 71.23 STATE AND COUNTY ROADS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway within
the city under the jurisdiction of the state or county at a speed exceeding
that lawfully set for the street or highway.
(1986 Code, § 14-34) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 SPEED RESTRICTIONS FOR VEHICLES OF THE SECOND DIVISION.
   (A)   The speed of all “vehicles of the second division” as defined in
division (B) of this section shall be as follows:
      (1)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying freight
and has a gross weight of 8,000 pounds or less, including the weight of the
vehicle and maximum load, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is
55 miles per hour outside of an urban district, 30 miles per hour in an urban
district, and 15 miles per hour in an alley;
      (2)   If the vehicle is equipped with two or more solid tires, the
maximum is ten miles per hour at all times and in all locations; and
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying freight
and has a gross weight of more than 8,000 pounds, including the weight of the
vehicle and maximum load, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is
50 miles per hour outside of an urban district, and 30 miles per hour in an
urban district, and 15 miles per hour in an alley.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section the term VEHICLES OF THE SECOND
DIVISION shall mean those vehicles which are designed for carrying more than
ten persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those vehicles
which are designed for pulling or carrying property, freight or cargo, those
motor vehicles of the first division, as defined by state law, remodeled for
use and used as motor vehicles of the second division, and those motor vehicles
of the first division used and registered as school buses.
(1986 Code, § 14-35) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25 SCHOOL ZONES ESTABLISHED; SIGNPOSTING; SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 miles
per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school during
school days when school children are present.
(1986 Code, § 14-37)
   (B)   The speed limit shall be 20 miles per hour in the speed zones which
are designated as school zones, as tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule IV.
   (C)   The Street Department shall post signs designating the school zones
listed in
Chapter 73, Schedule IV.
(1986 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. 1978-12, passed 11-20-1978; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995)
Statutory reference:
   School speed limits, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605
§ 71.26 SPEED LIMITS ON SPECIFIED ROADS.
   (A)   Upon order of the City Council, the Chief of Police has conducted
traffic studies of specific roadways within the corporate limits and submitted
recommendations to the Law Enforcement and Emergency Services Committee, and
the Committee has recommended to the City Council that certain speed limits for
those roadways be established and posted, as tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule V.
   (B)   Signs conforming to the Illinois Department of Transportation’s Sign
Manual and Specifications shall be erected along the roadways specified in
Chapter 73, Schedule V advising the public of the legal speed limit on those
portions of the roadways located within the city. The location of these signs
shall conform to the requirements of the Illinois Department of
Transportation’s Sign Manual and Specifications.
   (C)   Any person who disobeys the posted maximum speed limit set pursuant to
this section shall be subject to the provisions of §
71.99.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 3-5-2007; Ord. 2007-18, passed 11-5-2007; Ord. 2008-02,
passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 2009-18, passed 9-8-2009) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For violations of Ords. 2008-03, 2009-02, 2009-19 and 2010-16, as set
forth in §
71.05 and
Chapter 73, Schedule VI, any person who disobeys the stop signs to be placed
pursuant to these ordinances shall be guilty of the offense of failing to obey
a traffic-control device and shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than
$500 for each offense.
   (C)   Any violation of §
71.09 as tabulated in
Chapter 73, Schedule III, shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $75
and not more than $500.
   (D)   Any person who disobeys the posted maximum speed limits set pursuant
to §
71.26 shall be guilty of the offense of speeding, and shall be fined not less
than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense.
   (E)   Any person who disobeys the yield signs to be placed pursuant to
Chapter 73, Schedule II shall be guilty of the offense of failing to obey a
traffic control device, and shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500
for each such offense.
(Ord. 2007-18, passed 11-5-2007; Ord. 2008-02, passed 2-4-2008; 2008-03, passed
3-3-2008; Ord. 2009-02, passed 3-2-2009; Ord. 2009-17, passed 9-8-2009, Ord.
2009-18, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2009-19, passed 9-8-2009; Ord. 2010-16, passed
11-1-2010; Ord. 2011-13, passed 9-6-2011; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-17-2017)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Authority of police to move illegally stopped or parked vehicles
   
72.02   School bus loading zones established
   
72.03   Parking and standing in loading zones
   
72.04   Parking or standing near entrances to public buildings, theaters,
hospitals and hotels
Parking Regulations
   
72.20   Erection of signs indicating parking restrictions
   
72.21   Authority of police to tow illegally parked vehicles
   
72.22   Compromise and settlement of violations
   
72.23   Specific no parking zones
   
72.24   Time limit parking areas–generally
   
72.25   Time limit parking areas–30-minute zones
   
72.26   Blocking mailboxes
   
72.27   Parking restrictions during snowfalls; snow routes
   
72.28   Parking during street cleaning operations
   
72.29   Parking of prohibited vehicles on city streets restricted
   
72.30   Blocking driveways
   
72.31   Parking of refrigeration trucks restricted
   
72.32   Parking of diesel powered trucks and tractors restricted
   
72.33   Parking vehicles for sale purposes prohibited
   
72.34   Parking direction
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking in taxicab stand, see §
112.17
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO MOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED OR PARKED VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle parked or standing upon a
highway in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, the officer
is hereby authorized to move the vehicle, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle to a position off the paved or
improved or main traveled part of the highway.
(1986 Code, § 14-51)
§ 72.02 SCHOOL BUS LOADING ZONES ESTABLISHED.
   The streets declared to be loading and unloading zones for school buses are
tabulated in
Chapter 74, Schedule I.
(1986 Code, § 14-54)
§ 72.03 PARKING AND STANDING IN LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to park or stand a
passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading
or unloading of passengers, not to exceed 30 minutes, in any place designated
by the Mayor and City Council as a loading zone and marked as such.
(1986 Code, § 14-55) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING OR STANDING NEAR ENTRANCES TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS, THEATERS,
HOSPITALS AND HOTELS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or stand a vehicle, except for loading or
unloading passengers, at any of the following places:
   (A)   At any place within 75 feet of the entrance to a public building,
between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday;
   (B)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open; and
   (C)   At any place within 75 feet of the entrance to any hospital or hotel
at any time.
(1986 Code, § 14-56) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 72.20 ERECTION OF SIGNS INDICATING PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The Street Department shall place or cause to be placed signs indicating any
parking restrictions or prohibitions.
(1986 Code, § 14-66) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995)
§ 72.21 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO TOW ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle parked in any place where
the parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a
fire hydrant or may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle or any
vehicle which has been parked in any public street or other public place for a
period of 24 consecutive hours.
   (B)   Vehicles towed pursuant to this section shall be stored on any city
property or in a public garage or parking lot and shall be returned to the
owner or operator thereof only after payment of the expense incurred by the
city in removing and storing the vehicles and any fines imposed by the city.
(1986 Code, § 14-67)
§ 72.22 COMPROMISE AND SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this code or other ordinance, any
person accused of a violation of a provision of this code or other ordinance
prohibiting parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length
of time a vehicle may be parked, may settle and compromise the claim against
him or her for the illegal parking by paying to the city the sum of $5 within
72 hours of the time the alleged offense was committed. The payment may be made
at the police station, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received.
Money received pursuant to this section shall be promptly turned over to the
City Treasurer. The Police Department is authorized to refrain from instituting
a prosecution for the alleged offense involved.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where the Police or Fire Department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an
emergency entrance to a hospital. This section shall not apply to any person
charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street
or alley, or to any person parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an
arterial street to one-way traffic only, or to any person who refuses to move a
vehicle illegally parked at the request of a police officer.
(1986 Code, § 14-68)
§ 72.23 SPECIFIC NO PARKING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to park or stand in any of the
places tabulated in
Chapter 74, Schedule II, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device.
(1986 Code, § 14-69) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.24 TIME LIMIT PARKING AREAS–GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle at the places
tabulated in
Chapter 74, Schedule III during the times specified, except as otherwise
provided by this section.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) of this section
shall be subject to the provisions of §
72.99.
(1986 Code, § 14-70) (Ord. 1978-14, passed 11-20-1978; Ord. 1979-4, passed 5-3-
1979; Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-21-1983; Ord. 1998-36, passed 12-21-1998; Ord.
2001-20, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 2007-04, passed 2-5-2007) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 TIME LIMIT PARKING AREAS–30-MINUTE ZONES.
   (A)   A 30-MINUTE PARKING ZONE is defined to mean an area along a public
street within the municipal limits of the city in which parking is restricted
to a maximum of 30 consecutive minutes.
   (B)   The area tabulated in
Chapter 74, Schedule III is hereby declared to be a 30-minute parking zone.
   (C)   Any violation of this section shall be punishable as set forth in §
72.99.
(1986 Code, § 14-70.1) (Ord. 1989-17, passed 4-17-1989) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 BLOCKING MAILBOXES.
   No person shall cause or permit any vehicle to be parked which causes access
to mailboxes in the city to be blocked while postal authorities are delivering
the mail.
(1986 Code, § 14-71) (Ord. 1982-1, passed 2-1-1982) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27 PARKING RESTRICTIONS DURING SNOWFALLS; SNOW ROUTES.
   (A)   Generally. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public
street in the city at any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three inches
or more has occurred.
(1986 Code, § 14-72)
   (B)   Snow routes.  
      (1)   There shall be no parking on either side of streets designated as
snow routes 24 hours after a two-inch snowfall has accumulated on the snow
routes. The city shall post signs designating a street as a snow route and
these signs shall be notice to the owners and operators of all motor vehicles
that parking is prohibited.
      (2)   Parking may be resumed on individual streets as soon as final
plowing, as announced by the city, has been completed on that street.
      (3)   Vehicles parked on snow routes in violation of this division (B)
shall be towed and may be reclaimed upon payment of any towing and storage fee,
if any.
      (4)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to place and establish
signs and other devices in accordance with sound traffic engineering principles
as are necessary to implement and execute this section.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-19-2010)
Penalty, see §
72.99
Cross-reference:
   Snow routes (map), see
Ch. 74, Sched. IV
§ 72.28 PARKING DURING STREET CLEANING OPERATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when the street is being cleaned of foreign
matter, including but not limited to debris, snow or ice. Signs indicating that
a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted immediately before
the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the cleaning of the
street is finished.
(1986 Code, § 14-73) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.29 PARKING OF PROHIBITED VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following terms shall have the
meanings here indicated for them.
      PROHIBITED VEHICLE. A vehicle which is either:
         (a)   A trailer longer than 12 feet in length, regardless of whether
the trailer is attached to a truck tractor; or
         (b)   A second division vehicle (other than a school bus) which weighs
more than 12,000 pounds, including the vehicle itself and the vehicle’s legal
maximum load.
      SCHOOL BUS.  The meaning given to it by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-182.
      SECOND DIVISION. As used to classify vehicles, shall have the meaning
given to it by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217.
      TRAILER.  The meaning given to it by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-209.
      VEHICLE. The meaning given to it by ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-217.
   (B)   No prohibited vehicle shall be parked upon any city street at any time
between the hour of 10:00 p.m. on any day of the week and the hour of 6:00 a.m.
on the morning of the next day.
(1986 Code, § 14-74) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 2-16-1981; Ord. 1981-6, passed 3-16-
1981; Ord. 1988-11, passed 4-4-1988; Ord. 1989-13, passed 2-20-1989) Penalty,
see §
72.99
§ 72.30 BLOCKING DRIVEWAYS.
   No person shall park any vehicle in such a manner as to prevent ingress to
and egress from a private driveway.
(1986 Code, § 14-75) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31 PARKING OF REFRIGERATION TRUCKS RESTRICTED.
   No refrigerated truck or trailer shall be parked within the city between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., with the refrigeration unit in operation,
except that these units may be parked in areas specifically designed and
established for the group parking of the units.
(1986 Code, § 14-76) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 2-16-1981) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 PARKING OF DIESEL POWERED TRUCKS AND TRACTORS RESTRICTED.
   No diesel powered truck or tractor shall be parked within the city between
the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. with the engine running, except that these
units may be parked in areas specifically designed and established for the
group parking of such units.
(1986 Code, § 14-77) (Ord. 1981-4, passed 2-16-1981) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.33 PARKING VEHICLES FOR SALE PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying the vehicle for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business
street from which vehicle merchandise is sold.
(1986 Code, § 14-78) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.34 PARKING DIRECTION.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any portion of any street in a
direction opposite of the direction of the authorized traffic movement on that
portion of the street.
(1986 Code, § 14-79) (Ord. 1987-12, passed 6-15-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of division (A) of §
72.24 shall be fined $3 if paid within 48 hours and $6 thereafter together with
court costs, if court enforcement is necessary.
(1986 Code, § 14-70)
   (C)   Any violation of §
72.25 shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than
$500.
(1986 Code, § 14-70.1)
   (D)   Any violations of the snow route parking prohibitions of §
72.27(B) shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$750.
   (E)   Violations of the parking schedule set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule II:
      (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of Ord.
2002-09 regarding Main Street and U.S. Route 40 shall be fined not less than
$10 nor more than $50 for each offense.
      (2)   Violations of Ord. 2008-04 regarding Mary Drive and East Mary
Drive, and Ord. 2012-20 regarding North Hickory Street, shall be punishable by
a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 1978-14, passed 11-20-1978; Ord. 1979-4, passed 5-3-1979; Ord. 1983-7,
passed 11-21-1983; Ord. 1989-17, passed 4-17-1989; Ord. 1998-36, passed 12-21-
1998; Ord. 2001-20, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 2002-09, passed 5-6-2002; Ord.
2007-04, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 2008-04, passed 3-17-2008; Ord. 2010-02, passed
1-19-2010; Ord. 2012-20, passed 10-1-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Settlement of violation claim, see §
72.22
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Through streets
   
II.   Yield right-of-way streets
   
III.   Limited load streets
   
IV.   Speed limits in school zones
   
V.   Speed limits on specified roads
   
VI.   Stop intersections
   
VII.   One-way streets
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
   The following shall be through streets:
Street Extent Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Extent                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
Bargraves Boulevard from Edwardsville Road north to Zenk   -        - -
                    Road
Center Street       from its intersection with Dewey       -        - -
                    Street west to the Collinsville Road
Clay Street         from Edwardsville Road to Dewey Street -        - -
Collinsville Road   from its intersection with Market      -        - -
                    Street to the west city limits
Dewey Street        from Center Street to Lower Marine     -        - -
                    Road
                    from its intersection with Borden
Edwardsville Road   Street to the northwesterly city       -        - -
                    limits
Main Street         from Center Street to its termination  -        - -
                    at U.S. 40
Market Street       from Dewey Street west to its          -        - -
                    intersection with Border Street
Riggin Road         from Edwardsville Road to northern     -        - -
                    city limits
Staunton Road       from Clay Street north to city limits  -        - -
 
(1986 Code, § 14-18)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The following shall be yield intersections:
Street Direction At Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Street               Direction     At Street           Ord. No. Date Passed
Bradley Court        southbound    at Reagan Drive     2006-09  3-20-2006
Chamberlain Drive    southbound    at Goldwater Circle 2006-09  3-20-2006
Coolidge Court       southbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
Eisenhower Boulevard southbound    at Rumsfeld Drive   2006-09  3-20-2006
Garfield Court       southbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
Grant Court          southbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
Marshall Drive       southbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
McClelland Drive     eastbound     at McArthur Drive   2006-09  3-20-2006
McClelland Drive     westbound     at McArthur Drive   2006-09  3-20-2006
Oak Street           eastbound and at Kimberlin Street 2011-13  9-6-2011
                     westbound
Roosevelt Drive      northbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
Roosevelt Drive      southbound    at George Bush      2006-09  3-20-2006
                                   Boulevard
 
(1986 Code, § 14-19) Penalty, See §
71.99
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on or over the portion of any
road listed below, when the gross weight of the vehicle exceeds the limit
provided and signs indicating these load limitations shall be posted.
 
Street         Restricted     Gross Weight 1986 Code Ord. No.       Date Passed
               Area           Load Limit   Section
               between
Bouse Road     Formosa Road   10 tons      14-24     2005-19        7-5-2005
               and Old Troy
               Road
               between Old
               Collinsville
               Road and State
Formosa Road   Route 162,     5 tons       14-23     2000-20        9-5-2000
               excluding the
               first 200 feet
               south of State
               Route 162
               between Old
Sr A. Bradley  Collinsville   18 tons      -         2009-17; 2010- 9-8-2009;
R. Smith Drive Road and State                        05             - -
               Route 162
 
(1986 Code, § 14-22)
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED LIMITS IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   The speed limit shall be 20 miles per hour in the following speed zones
which are designated as school zones:
 
Street          Location/Extent                       Ord. No. Date Passed
Border Street   from Clay Street to Throp Street      -        - -
Clay Street     from Kimberlin Street to Dewey Street -        - -
Creekside Drive from Avalon Drive to E. Highway 40    -        - -
Dewey Street    from Market Street to James Drive     -        - -
Staunton Road   from Throp Street to Clay Street      -        - -
 
(1986 Code, § 14-36) (Ord. 1978-12, passed 11-20-1978; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-
16-1995)
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS ON SPECIFIED ROADS.
 
Road             Location         Speed Limit  Ord. No.         Date Passed
                                  (mph)
                 north of the
Riggin Road      intersection of  35           2007-18          11-5-2007
                 Riggin Road and
                 Reid Avenue
South Formosa    South Formosa    35           2008-02          2-4-2008
Road             Road
                 from the south
                 property line of
                 1344 Spring
Spring Valley    Valley Road to   35           2007-06          3-5-2007
Road             the north
                 property line of
                 1206 Spring
                 Valley Road
                 Sr A. Bradley R.
Sr A. Bradley R. Smith Drive;                                   9-8-2009;
Smith Drive      signs to be      35           2009-18; 2010-05 - -
                 posted along
                 Riggin Road
 
Penalty, see §
71.99
SCHEDULE VI. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   One-way stops.
Street Direction At Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Street       Direction  At Intersection                          Ord.    Date
                                                                 No.     Passed
Ackerman     westbound  at its intersection with Riggin Road     -       - -
Avenue       traffic
Alarth Drive northbound at its intersection with U.S. Route 40   -       - -
             traffic
Auburn Trace westbound  at its intersection with Tramore         2014-04 4-21-
                                                                         2014
Austin Drive westbound  at Spring Valley Road                    -       - -
             traffic
Avalon Drive eastbound  at its intersection with Creekside Drive -       - -
             traffic
Bargraves    northbound at its intersection with Zenk Road       -       - -
Boulevard    traffic
Barnsback    westbound  at its intersection with Sherburne       -       - -
             traffic    Avenue
Bluebird     southbound at its intersection with Reid Avenue     -       - -
Lane         traffic
Bluestem     westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Court        traffic    Boulevard
Briarwood    westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Drive        traffic    Boulevard
Buckeye      northbound at its intersection with O’Hara Drive  -       - -
Drive        traffic
Buckeye      southbound at the alley entrance to Super Valu Food -       - -
Drive        traffic    Store/Troy Plaza parking lot
Buckeye      westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Drive        traffic    Boulevard
Buckhorn     westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Court        traffic    Boulevard
Canterbury   eastbound  at its intersection with Riggin Road     -       - -
Street       traffic
Cedar Mill   northbound at its intersection with Northwood Drive -       - -
             traffic
Chamberlain  northbound at its intersection with Bouse Road      -       - -
Drive        traffic
Charleston   -          at Spring Valley                         2008-03 3-3-
                                                                         2008
Charleston   eastbound  at Chalmers Drive                        2008-03 3-3-
                                                                         2008
Charleston   westbound  at Chalmers Drive                        2008-03 3-3-
                                                                         2008
Chalmers     northbound at Charleston                            2008-03 3-3-
Drive                                                                    2008
Chalmers     southbound at Charleston                            2008-03 3-3-
Drive                                                                    2008
Chickadee    northbound at its intersection with Quail Run       -       - -
             traffic
Chickadee    southbound at its intersection with Redbird Street  -       - -
             traffic
Claybrooke   southbound at its intersection with Sunnybrooke     -       - -
Court        traffic
Cobblestone  southbound at its intersection with Avalon Drive    -       - -
Court        traffic
Cobblestone  westbound  at its intersection with Arrowhead Drive -       - -
Court        traffic
Commercial   westbound  at its intersection with Formosa Road    -       - -
Drive        traffic
Crossington  westbound  at its intersection with Fairoaks Drive  -       - -
             traffic
Crossington  eastbound  at the intersection with Fairington      2013-01 5-6-
Lane         traffic    Drive                                            2013
Dale Drive   southbound at its intersection with Austin Drive    -       - -
             traffic
Dogwood      eastbound  at its intersection with Oakwood Drive   -       - -
Drive        traffic
Dogwood      westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Drive        traffic    Boulevard
Dorothy      westbound  at SrA. Bradley R. Smith Drive           2015-21 10-5-
Drive                                                                    2015
Eisenhower   northbound at McClelland Drive                      2010-16 11-1-
Boulevard                                                                2010
                        at its intersection with George Bush
Eisenhower   southbound Boulevard. (Northbound Eisenhower at
Boulevard    traffic    George Bush Boulevard and northbound     -       - -
                        Eisenhower Boulevard at George Bush
                        Boulevard are 2 different locations.)
Eisenhower   southbound at McClelland Drive                      2010-16 11-1-
Boulevard                                                                2010
Fairoaks     southbound at its intersection with Fairington      -       - -
Drive        traffic    Drive
Fairoaks     southbound at its intersection with Troy-O’Fallon -       - -
Drive        traffic    Road
Franklin     southbound at its intersection with Meadow Drive    -       - -
Avenue       traffic
Galahad      northbound at its intersection with Avalon Drive    -       - -
Drive        traffic
Gawain Drive northbound at its intersection with Avalon Drive    -       - -
             traffic
George Bush  westbound  at its intersection with Eisenhower      -       - -
Boulevard    traffic    Boulevard
Gillham      northbound at its intersection with Reid Avenue     -       - -
             traffic
Greythorne   -          at its intersection with Gliddon         2017-21 8-21-
Court                   Boulevard                                        2017
Harvestyme   northbound at its intersection with Longbranch Road -       - -
Lane         traffic
Jennifer     -          at its intersection with Lower Marine    2017-23 11-6-
Court                   Road                                             2017
Kenneth      southbound at its intersection with Mary Drive      -       - -
Drive        traffic
Kimberlin    southbound at its intersection with East Market     -       - -
Street       traffic    Street
Lake Terrace southbound at its intersection with Burlington      -       - -
Court        traffic    Drive
Limbaugh     northbound at its intersection with Eisenhower      -       - -
Drive        traffic    Boulevard
Limbaugh     southbound at its intersection with McClelland      -       - -
Drive        traffic    Drive
Lindenwood   northbound at its intersection with Dogwood Drive   -       - -
Drive        traffic
Lindenwood   southbound at its intersection with Briarwood Drive -       - -
Drive        traffic
Lone Robin   northbound at its intersection with Quail Run       -       - -
             traffic
Lone Robin   southbound at its intersection with Redbird Street  -       - -
             traffic
Longbranch   westbound  at its intersection with Sugar Mill Road -       - -
Road         traffic
Lower Marine eastbound  at its intersection with Bass Drive      -       - -
Road         traffic
Lower Marine westbound  at its intersection with Kenneth Drive   -       - -
Road         traffic
Martin Drive southbound at its intersection with Austin Drive    -       - -
             traffic
McArthur     southbound at George Bush Boulevard                 2010-16 11-1-
Drive                                                                    2010
McArthur     westbound  at its intersection with Old Troy Road   -       - -
Drive        traffic
McClelland   eastbound  at Chamberlain Drive                     2010-16 11-1-
Drive                                                                    2010
McClelland   westbound  at Chamberlain Drive                     2010-16 11-1-
Drive                                                                    2010
Meadowbrooke northbound at its intersection with Troy-O’Fallon -       - -
Drive        traffic    Road
Meadowlark   northbound at Quail Lake                            2009-02 3-2-
                                                                         2009
Meadowlark   southbound at its intersection with Redbird Street  -       - -
             traffic
Mockingbird  northbound at its intersection with Reid Avenue     -       - -
             traffic
Northwood    eastbound  at its intersection with Harbor Mill     -       - -
Drive        traffic    Road
Nottingham   eastbound
Drive, north traffic    at its intersection with Riggin Road     -       - -
branch
Nottingham   eastbound
Drive, south traffic    at its intersection with Riggin Road     -       - -
branch
Oakwood      northbound at its intersection with Zenk Road       -       - -
Drive        traffic
Oakwood      southbound at its intersection with Briarwood Drive -       - -
Drive        traffic
O’Hara Drivwestbound  at its intersection with Buckeye Drive   -       - -
             traffic
Old          southbound at its intersection with Burlington
Homestead    traffic    Drive                                    -       - -
Drive
Orchard      southbound at its intersection with State Route 162 -       - -
Court        traffic
Parkside     eastbound  at its intersection with Laundry Street  -       - -
Drive        traffic
Parkside     westbound  at its intersection with Riggin Road     -       - -
Drive        traffic
Patton Drive southbound at its intersection with McClelland      -       - -
             traffic    Drive
Patton Drive westbound  at its intersection with Eisenhower      -       - -
             traffic    Boulevard
Pinebrooke   northbound at its intersection with Westbrooke      -       - -
             traffic    Street
Pinewood     southbound at its intersection with Olde Farm Road  -       - -
Court        traffic
Prairie      westbound  at its intersection with Bargraves       -       - -
Court        traffic    Boulevard
Quail Lake   westbound  at its intersection with Harbor Mill     -       - -
Drive        traffic    Road
Quail Lake   -          at its intersection with Briar Creek     2017-21 8-21-
Drive                   Boulevard                                        2017
Quail Run    westbound  at its intersection with Wren Hill       -       - -
             traffic
Reagan Drive southbound at its intersection with McClelland      -       - -
             traffic    Drive
Reagan Drive westbound  at its intersection with Eisenhower      -       - -
             traffic    Boulevard
Redbird      eastbound  at its intersection with Franklin Avenue -       - -
Street       traffic
Redbird      westbound  at its intersection with Wren Hill       -       - -
Street       traffic
Redbud Drive northbound at its intersection with Zenk Road       -       - -
             traffic
Redbud Drive southbound at its intersection with Briarwood Drive -       - -
             traffic
Reid Avenue  eastbound  at its intersection with Meadowlark      -       - -
             traffic
Remington    northbound at its intersection with Old Homestead   -       - -
Court        traffic    Drive
Riggin Road  northbound at Ackerman Avenue                       2014-16 9-15-
                                                                         2014
Riggin Road  southbound at Ackerman Avenue                       2014-16 9-15-
                                                                         2014
Roosevelt    southbound at its intersection with Rumsfeld Drive  -       - -
Drive        traffic
Rutledge     northbound at Charleston                            2008-03 3-3-
Drive                                                                    2008
Rutledge     southbound at Charleston                            2008-03 3-3-
Drive                                                                    2008
Saddlebrooke northbound at its intersection with Westbrooke      -       - -
             traffic
Sandstone    southbound at its intersection with Avalon Drive    -       - -
Court        traffic
Spring Mill  eastbound  at its intersection with Formosa         2014-04 4-21-
Drive                                                                    2014
Sr A.                                                                    9-8-
Bradley R.   southbound at Old Collinsville Road                 2009-19 2009
Smith Drive
Steven Drive westbound  at Troy Avenue                           2015-01 1-5-
                                                                         2015
Stonebrooke  eastbound  at its intersection with Meadowbrooke    -       - -
             traffic
Stonebrooke  westbound  at its intersection with Pinebrooke      -       - -
             traffic
Sundance     northbound at its intersection with Avalon Drive    -       - -
Trail        traffic
Sunfield     southbound at its intersection with Longbranch Road -       - -
Street       traffic
Tramore      northbound at its intersection with Bouse Road      2014-04 4-21-
                                                                         2014
Tramore      southbound at its intersection with Suncrest Court  2014-04 4-21-
                                                                         2014
Turtle Creek southbound at its intersection with Cederbrooke     -       - -
             traffic    Court
Waterford    westbound  at its intersection with Suncrest Court  2014-04 4-21-
Place                                                                    2014
Weathervane  southbound at its intersection with Longbranch Road -       - -
Lane         traffic
Weathervane  westbound  at its intersection with Sugar Mill Road -       - -
Lane         traffic
Westbrooke   westbound  at its intersection with Ashbrooke       -       - -
             traffic    Street
Wheatridge   southbound at its intersection with Longbranch Road -       - -
Drive        traffic
Whippoorwill southbound at its intersection with Redbird Street  -       - -
             traffic
Woodthrush   southbound at its intersection with Redbird Street  -       - -
             traffic
 
   (B)   Two-way stops.
Street Direction At Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Street              Direction          At Intersection     Ord. No. Date Passed
Arbor Springs       eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Turtle Creek
Ash Street          northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with High Street
Avalon Drive        -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Main Street
Avalon Drive        eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Galahad Drive
Avalon Drive        eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Sundance Trail
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Bargraves Boulevard southbound traffic with Briarwood      -        - -
                                       Drive
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Burlington Drive    westbound traffic  with Old Homestead  -        - -
                                       Drive
Cedarbrooke Court   eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Turtle Creek
Center Street       -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Main Street
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Chamberlain Drive   southbound traffic with McClelland     -        - -
                                       Drive
Chamberlain Drive   northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Rumsfeld Drive
Charter Street      -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Hickory Street
                                       at its intersection
Charter Street      -                  with Kimberlin      -        - -
                                       Street
Clay Street         eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with N. Main Street
Creekside Drive     northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Avalon Drive
                                       at its intersection
Dewey Street        -                  with East Clay      -        - -
                                       Street
Eisenhower          eastbound and      at its intersection
Boulevard           westbound traffic  with Chamberlain    -        - -
                                       Drive
Eisenhower          northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
Boulevard           southbound traffic with McArthur Drive
Fairington Drive    eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Fairoaks Drive
Formosa Road        northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Bouse Road
George Bush         eastbound and      at its intersection
Boulevard           westbound traffic  with Chamberlain    -        - -
                                       Drive
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Harbor Mill Road    southbound traffic with Northwood      -        - -
                                       Drive
Hickory Street      -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Clay Street
High Street         -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Hickory Street
Kimberlin Street    -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Clay Street
Kimberlin Street    -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Throp Street
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Laundry Street      southbound traffic with Wickliffe      -        - -
                                       Street
Longbranch Road     eastbound and      at its intersection 2014-04  4-21-2014
                    westbound          with Olde Farm Road
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Longbranch Road     westbound traffic  with Weathervane    -        - -
                                       Lane
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Longbranch Road     westbound traffic  with Wheatridge     -        - -
                                       Drive
Main Street         -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Clay Street
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
McClelland Drive    westbound traffic  with Eisenhower     -        - -
                                       Boulevard
Meadow Drive        eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Mockingbird
Mockingbird         northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Redbird Street
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Old Homestead Drive southbound traffic with Taylor Lake    -        - -
                                       Drive
Olde Farm Road      eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Pinewood Court
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Plum Street         westbound traffic  with South Hickory  -        - -
                                       Street
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Plum Street         westbound traffic  with South          -        - -
                                       Kimberlin Street
Powell Street       -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Clay Street
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Powell Street       southbound traffic with Henderson      -        - -
                                       Street
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Rumsfeld Drive      westbound traffic  with Roosevelt      -        - -
                                       Drive
Shadowbrooke        eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Meadowbrooke
Shadowbrooke        eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Saddlebrooke
Sherburne Avenue    northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Barnsback
Spring Mill Drive   eastbound and      at its intersection 2014-04  4-21-2014
                    westbound          with Tramore
Staunton Road       -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Clay Street
Sunnybrooke         eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Meadowbrooke
Sunnybrooke         eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Saddlebrooke
                    northbound and     at its intersection
Sunset Chase        southbound traffic with Northwood      -        - -
                                       Drive
Throp Street        -                  at its intersection -        - -
                                       with Staunton Road
Turtle Creek        northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Arbor Springs
                    eastbound and      at its intersection
Wayland Street      westbound traffic  with Sherburne      -        - -
                                       Avenue
Westbrooke          eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Saddlebrooke
Weston Street       eastbound and      at its intersection -        - -
                    westbound traffic  with Powell Street
Whippoorwill        northbound and     at its intersection -        - -
                    southbound traffic with Reid Avenue
 
   (C)   Three-way stops.
 
Street          Direction          At Intersection       Ord. No. Date Passed
                                   at its intersection
                                   with Powell Street,
Elmer Street    eastbound and      and Powell Street     -        - -
                westbound traffic  northbound traffic at
                                   its intersection with
                                   Elmer Street
                                   at its intersection
                                   with Elmer Street,
Franklin Avenue northbound and     and Elmer Street      -        - -
                southbound traffic westbound traffic at
                                   its intersection with
                                   Franklin Avenue
                                   at its intersection
                                   with Cedarbrooke, and
Oakbrooke       northbound and     Cedarbrooke westbound -        - -
                southbound traffic traffic at its
                                   intersection with
                                   Oakbrooke
                eastbound,         at its intersection
Taake Drive     westbound, and     with Bass Drive and   2014-04  4-21-2014
                northbound         Pike Lane
 
   (D)   Four-way stops.
Street At Street Ord. No. Date Passed
Street                    At Street                     Ord. No. Date Passed
Ashbrooke Street          and Cedarbrooke Court         -        - -
Avalon Drive              and Lancelot Drives           -        - -
Border Street             and Clay Street               -        - -
Chamberlain Drive         and McClelland Drive          2024-39  6-17-2024
Eisenhower Boulevard      and McClelland Drive          2024-45  7-1-2024
Hassinger Street          and Market Street             -        - -
Herrick Park Drive        and Bridgehampton Road        2020-14  5-4-2020
North Wilson Heights Road and Troy Road (North Frontage 2019-16  10-21-2019
                          Road of I-55/70)
Old Farm Road             and Harvestyme Lane           -        - -
Plummer Business Drive    and Riedle Drive              -        - -
Powell Street             and Throp Street              -        - -
Reid Avenue               and Woodthrush                -        - -
Saddlebrooke              and Stonebrooke               -        - -
Sarah Street              and Wickliffe Street          2024-60  11-18-2024
South Wilson Heights Road and Troy Road (South Frontage 2019-16  10-21-2019
                          Road of I-55/70)
Timber Terrace            and Quail Lake Drive          2019-17  10-21-2019
 
   (E)   Stop signs.
      (1)   A stop sign is required and shall be installed as follows: On Mark
Steven Ct. at its intersection with Franklin Street.
      (2)   A stop sign conforming to the Illinois Department of
Transportation’s Sign Manual and Specifications shall be erected at the
intersection describe in division (E)(1) above, the intersection being within
the city. The location of this sign shall conform to the requirements of the
Illinois Department of Transportation’s Sign Manual and Specifications.
      (3)   Any person who disobeys this stop sign shall be guilty of the
offense of failing to obey a traffic control device, and shall be fine not less
than $75 nor more than $750 for each offense.
(1986 Code, § 14-52) (Ord. 1985-19, passed 7-1-1985; Ord. 1985-22, passed 8-5-
1985; Ord. 1986-6, passed 5-5-1986; Ord. 1986-15, passed 7-21-1986; Ord. 1986-
34, passed 11-3-1986; Ord. 1986-35, passed 11-3-1986; Ord. 1986-37, passed 11-
17-1986; Ord. 1988-14, passed 5-16-1988; Ord. 1988-19, passed 7-5-1988; Ord.
1989-08, passed 2-20-1989; Ord. 1989-09, passed 2-20-1989; Ord. 1989-10, passed
2-20-1989; Ord. 1989-14, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 1989-21, passed 6-19-1989; Ord.
1989-22, passed 6-19-1989; Ord. 1989-41, passed 11-6-1989; Ord. 1990-16, passed
9-4-1990; Ord. 1992-19, passed 6-1-1992; Ord. 1992-25, passed 8-17-1992; Ord.
1992-26, passed 8-17-1992; Ord. 1993-13, passed 7-6-1993; Ord. 1994-03, passed
2-21-1994; Ord. 1994-10, passed 6-6-1994; Ord. 1994-15, passed 6-20-1994; Ord.
1994-16, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 1994-17, passed 6-20-1994; Ord. 1995-01, passed
1-4-1995; Ord. 1995-02, passed 1-4-1995; Ord. 1995-04, passed 2-17-1995; Ord.
1995-13, passed 5-1-1995; Ord. 1995-18, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 1995-19, passed
6-20-1995; Ord. 1996-01, passed 1-2-1996; Ord. 1996-07, passed 4-2-1996; Ord.
1996-09, passed 4-16-1996; Ord. 1996-37, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 1997-14, passed
4-21-1997; Ord. 1997-15, passed 4-21-1997; Ord. 1997-26, passed 6-2-1997; Ord.
1997-35, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 1997-36, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 1997-56, passed
11-17-1997; Ord. 1998-07, passed 4-6-1998; Ord. 1998-17, passed 6-1-1998; Ord.
1998-31, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 1999-16, passed 5-3-1999; Ord. 1999-31, passed
12-6-1999; Ord. 2000-11, passed 6-19-2000; Ord. 2000-17, passed 8-21-2000; Ord.
2000-20-A, passed 10-2-2000; Ord. 2001-05, passed 3-5-2001; Ord. 2001-10,
passed 4-16-2001; Ord. 2002-05, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 2002-15, passed 6-17-
2002; Ord. 2002-20, passed 9-3-2002; Ord. 2002-32, passed 12-16-2002; Ord.
2003-11, passed 5-19-2003; Ord. 2003-19, passed 8-4-2003; Ord. 2003-21, passed
8-18-2003; Ord. 2004-12, passed 6-7-2004; Ord. 2005-06, passed 2-7-2005; Ord.
2006-08, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 2011-06, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2024-39, passed
6-17-2024; Ord. 2024-45, passed 7-1-2024; Ord. 2024-60, passed 11-18-2024)
SCHEDULE VII. ONE-WAY STREETS.
 
Street                 Location                            Ord. No. Date Passed
North Kimberlin Street Beginning at E. Market Street for   2023-52  10-2-2023
                       140 feet
Wynona Street          From Laundry Street to Sarah Street 2024-55  9-16-2024
 
(Ord. 2023-52, passed 10-2-2023; Ord. 2024-55, passed 9-16-2024)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   School bus loading zones
   
II.   Specific no parking zones
   
III.   Time limit parking areas
   
IV.   Snow route
SCHEDULE I. SCHOOL BUS LOADING ZONES.
   The following streets are hereby declared to be loading and unloading zones
for school buses:
 
Street        Location                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Border Street at the Lutheran School front entrance       -        - -
Byrn Street   from Staunton Road to the east edge of the  -        - -
              school property adjacent thereto
Clay Street   from Staunton Road to the east end of the   -        - -
              school property adjacent thereto
              from 200 feet west of its intersection with
Clay Street   Border Street to 200 feet east of its       -        - -
              intersection with Border Street
 
(1986 Code, § 14-54)
SCHEDULE II. SPECIFIC NO PARKING ZONES.
   As set forth in §
72.23, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to park or stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
Street Side Prohibited Location Ord. No. Date Passed 1986 Code Section
              Side                                                                                    Ord.  Date   1986
Street        Prohibited Location                                                                     No.   Passed Code
                                                                                                                   Section
Arrowhead     east and   from the driveway at 208 Arrowhead Drive to the driveway at 210 Arrowhead    2017- 4-3-
Drive         north      Drive                                                                        06    2017
              bound
Arrowhead     east and   from the driveway at 205 Arrowhead Drive to the intersection at Cobblestone  2017- 4-3-
Drive         north      Court and Arrowhead Drive                                                    06    2017
              bound
              on both
Avalon Drive  sides of   from South Main Street eastward 150 feet                                     -     - -
              the street
                         on that portion from the point where the northerly line of lot 2 in Walnut
                         Hills Lake Estates subdivision intersects the east side of Bass Drive,
Bass Drive    east side  thence southerly along the east side of Bass Drive to the point where the    -     - -
                         easterly extension of the south line of lot 1 in Walnut Hills Lake Estates
                         subdivision intersects the east side of Bass Drive
                         on that portion from the point where the south side of Lakewood Drive
Bass Drive    west side  intersects the west side of Bass Drive, thence southerly along the west side -     - -
                         of Bass Drive to the point where the south line of lot 1 in Walnut Hills
                         Lake Estates subdivision intersects the west side of Bass Drive
Border Street east and   from Illinois Route 162 North to Clay Street                                 2014- 5-19-
              west side                                                                               05A   2014
                         it shall be unlawful for any person to park at any time a second division    2000- 9-5-
Center Street            vehicle, as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code, on the city parking area   19    2000   § 14-80
                         located at the corner of Center Street and Kimberlin Street.
Center Street on both    at its intersection with Main Street from a point commencing at the          -     - -
              sides      crosswalk for a distance of 20 feet away from the crosswalk
Center Street on both    from its intersection with Dewey Street to its intersection with             -     - -
              sides      Collinsville Road
Charter       on its     from Charcoal Street to Ash Street                                           -     - -
Street        north side
Charter       on its     between Kimberlin Street and Hickory Street as posted                        -     - -
Street        south side
Charter       on its     from 90 feet east of the centerline of Ash Street to Charcoal Street         -     - -
Street        south side
                         between the intersection of the south side of Clay Street with the
Clay Street   south side northeasterly line of Edwardsville Road and a point lying on the south line  -     - -
                         of Clay Street and 50 feet northeasterly from that intersection
Dewey Street
and Lower     -          from Market Street to the east boundary line of 600 Lower Marine Road        -     - -
Marine Road
East Mary     south side beginning at the intersection of Mary Drive and East Mary Drive and          2008- 3-17-
Drive                    continuing for a length of 50 feet                                           04    2008
Fairoaks      east and   starting at Troy-O’Fallon Road and ceasing at Fairington Drive             2014- 5-19-
Drive         west side                                                                               06    2014
Fairview      west side  -                                                                            -     - -
Drive
Formosa Road  -          from Edwardsville Road to northern city limits                               -     - -
                         beginning 24 feet west of the southwest corner of the apartment building
Joseph Drive  -          located at 208 Joseph Drive, thence northeasterly 75 feet to a point on      -     - -
                         Joseph Drive
Kimberlin     -          in the 100 block along the west side for the entire length of the block      -     - -
Street
              SW corner
Lanahan Drive of 516     to the parking lot entrance at 208 Joseph Drive                              2005- 8-15-
              Lanahan                                                                                 21A   2005
              Drive
                         at its intersection with Avalon Drive, along Main Street from the northeast
Main Street   -          and northwest corners from the crosswalk to a point 20 feet north of the     -     - -
                         crosswalk
Main Street   -          at its intersection with Center Street on both sides from a point commencing -     - -
                         at the crosswalk for a distance of 20 feet away from the crosswalk
Main Street   both sides from U.S. Route 40 north for 350 feet                                        2002- 5-6-
                                                                                                      09    2002
                         at its intersection with Kimberlin Street along the north side of the street
Market Street -          for a distance of 20 feet to the east and west of the intersection with      -     - -
                         Kimberlin Street
Market Street south side from the intersection of Market Street and Main Street west to the westerly  -     - -
                         edge of the entrance of the Troy Savings and Homestead
Marti Street  north and  from South Main Street to Sherburne Street                                   2008- 9-15-
              south side                                                                              14    2008
Marti Street  on its     between Sherburne Avenue and Rose Street                                     -     - -
              south side
McDonald      on both    south of State Route 162                                                     -     - -
Boulevard     sides
Meadow-       on both    200 feet south of Troy-O’Fallon Road                                       -     - -
brooke Drive  sides
North Hickory east side  from East Market Street to East Clay Street                                  2012- 10-1-
Street                                                                                                20    2012
North                    “Authorized Parking Only-City Vehicles Only” zone along the east side of the
Kimberlin     east side  100 block of North Kimberlin Street from its intersection with Market Street -     - -
Street                   to the north edge of City Hall
North Main    on its     from its intersection with Clay Street to a point 55 feet south of the       -     - -
Street        west side  intersection
Plum Street   on its     starting at a point 90 feet west of Main Street and extending to Washington  -     - -
              north side Street
Riggin Road
(a part of
which has     on both    from State Route 162 to Reid Avenue                                          -     - -
been          sides
designated as
FAU 9391)
Rose Street   on both    between Route 40 and Marti Street                                            -     - -
              sides
South Dewey   on the
Street        east and   the 100 block                                                                -     - -
              west sides
South Main               immediately south of its intersection with Center Street, from the point
Street        both sides beginning at the south edge of the southernmost crosswalk line across South  -     - -
                         Main Street to a point 20 feet farther south on South Main Street
South Main               between the intersection of the west line of South Main Street with the
Street        west side  north line of Fitch Street and a point lying on the west line of South Main  -     - -
                         Street and even with the south side of a building known as “Sizzer Shak”
Sr A. Bradley                                                                                         2009- 9-8-
R. Smith      -          Sr A. Bradley R. Smith Drive                                                 20    2009
Drive
State Route              from the point where the westernmost corporate limits of the city cross
162           -          State Route 162 easterly to the point where the west right of way line of    -     - -
                         Laundry Street intersects State Route 162
State Route   both sides from South Dewey Street to Mary Street                                       -     - -
162
State Route
162           both sides from the State Route 162/Interstate 55/70 interchange to Border Street       -     - -
(Edwardsville
Road)
Staunton Road on its     from Byrn Street to Clay Street                                              -     - -
              east side
West Clay     on its     between Washington Street and Powell Street                                  -     - -
Street        south side
 
(1986 Code, § 14-69) (Ord. 1982-3, passed 6-21-1982; Ord. 1984-10, passed 10-
15-1984; Ord. 1985-1, passed 1-21-1985; Ord. 1985-24, passed 8-19-1985; Ord.
1985-25, passed 10-7-1985; Ord. 1986-7, passed 5-19-1986; Ord. 1987-6, passed
5-18-1987; Ord. 1987-7, passed 5-18-1987; Ord. 1988-13, passed 5-2-1988; Ord.
1989-07, passed 2-6-1989; Ord. 1989-12, passed 2-20-1989; Ord. 1990-5, passed
3-5-1990; Ord. 1991-03, passed 2-18-1991; Ord. 1991-23, passed 10-21-1991; Ord.
1995-12, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 1996-02, passed 2-21-1996; Ord. 1998-09, passed
4-20-1998; Ord. 1998-17, passed 6-1-1998; Ord. 1999-32, passed 12-6-1999; Ord.
1999-33, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 2001-13, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 2003-09, passed
5-19-2003; Ord. 2004-01, passed 1-20-2004; Ord. 2004-30, passed 11-1-2004; Ord.
2005-28, passed 10-3-2005; Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2007-04, passed
2-5-2007; Ord. 2012-20, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2016-17, passed 6-6-2016; Ord.
2016-18, passed 6-6-2016)
SCHEDULE III. TIME LIMIT PARKING AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle at the following
places during the times specified, except as otherwise provided by §
72.24:
 
Street      Side        Location    Time         Ord. No. Date Passed 1986 Code
                                    Restriction                       Section
                        at corner   between
Center      city        of Center   hours of 10:
Street      parking     Street and  00 p.m. and  2000-19  9-5-2000    § 14-80
            area        Kimberlin   6:00 a.m.
                        Street
                                    from 8:00
                                    a.m. to 6:00
                        from Clay   p.m., for
            on both     Street to   any period
Main Street sides       Center      in excess of -        - -
                        Street      2 hours,
                                    except on
                                    Sundays and
                                    holidays
                                    from 8:00
                                    a.m. to 6:00
                        from        p.m., for
Market      on both     Hickory     any period
Street      sides       Street to   in excess of -        - -
                        Border      2 hours,
                        Street      except on
                                    Sundays and
                                    holidays
Market      on south    east to     2-hour
Street      side        Webster     parking      -        - -
                        Street
                                    between the
                                    hours of 1:
                                    00 p.m.
                        between     through 4:00
Staunton    on its west Throp       p.m., on     -        - -
Road        side        Street and  every day
                        Clay Street that the
                                    Troy Grade
                                    School is in
                                    session
 
(1986 Code, § 14-70) (Ord. 1978-14, passed 11-20-1978; Ord. 1979-4, passed 5-3-
1979; Ord. 1983-7, passed 11-21-1983; Ord. 1998-36, passed 12-21-1998; Ord.
2001-20, passed 10-15-2001; Ord. 2007-04, passed 2-5-2007)
Penalty, see §
72.99
SCHEDULE IV. SNOW ROUTE.
   The following streets are hereby designated as snow routes, as set out in
the map below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2054.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 1-19-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES; SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Cross-reference:
   For International Fire Code provisions, see
Ch. 151
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Limitation on number of animals kept
   
90.03   Dangerous animals prohibited
   
90.04   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.05   Loud, disturbing animals
   
90.06   Livestock
   
90.07   Diseased animals
   
90.08   Keeping of swine
   
90.09   Cleanliness of stables and the like
   
90.10   Nondomesticated animals
   
90.11   Hunting
Dogs, Cats and Other Animals
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Compliance with subchapter provisions
   
90.27   Running at large
   
90.28   Rabies vaccination required
   
90.29   Impounding authorized
   
90.30   Notice of impounding
   
90.31   Redemption of impounded dogs, cats and other animals
   
90.32   Impounding fee and charges
   
90.33   Vaccination required prior to release from impoundment
   
90.34   Disposal of unredeemed dogs, cats and other animals
   
90.35   Bites
   
90.36   Fighting prohibited
Vicious and Dangerous Dogs
   
90.51   Enforcement and authorization
   
90.52   Dangerous dogs
   
90.53   Vicious dogs
   
90.54   Exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Dead animal carcasses and the like, declared a nuisance, see §
131.15
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
Statutory reference:
   Animal Control Act, see ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.
   Humane Care of Animals Act, see ILCS Ch. 510, Act 70, §§ 1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way. Any person
who inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(1986 Code, § 6-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS KEPT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep more than three animals on
any premises within the city without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   Animals completely confined within a dwelling (“confined” and
“dwelling” being defined elsewhere by this code) shall not be counted toward
the three-animal limit. Dogs, cats or other household domesticated animals less
than four months of age shall not be counted toward the three-animal limit.
   (C)   Application forms for permits shall, upon request, be supplied by the
City Clerk.
   (D)   All applications for this multiple-animal permit shall be filed with
the City Clerk who shall, in conformity with the requirements of law, place it
on the agenda for the next available City Council meeting. The City Council
shall grant or deny the request for the permit.
   (E)   In addition to any other remedies available by law, the City Council
may revoke such a permit if it determines that the animal is a nuisance. This
revocation may occur only upon a complaint being made and a hearing held for
that purpose.
(1986 Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 1992-13, passed 5-9-1992; Ord. 1996-10, passed 4-15-
1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or permit any dangerous or vicious animal of
any kind to run at large in the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals which
are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 6-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The members of the Police Department are authorized to kill any dangerous
animal when it is necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(1986 Code, § 6-4)
§ 90.05 LOUD, DISTURBING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
of any person by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(1986 Code, § 6-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   The term LIVESTOCK shall include but not be limited to cattle, horses,
sheep, goats, poultry, mules, donkeys and llamas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep or permit any livestock to run at large
in the city. Any such animal running at large in any public place in the city
shall be impounded in the manner provided in §§
90.25 through
90.35.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep or to allow any livestock in the city
except in those areas with an agricultural zoning designation. Exception:
Chickens may be kept on single-family residential lots of at least two acres
provided that compliance with all of the conditions required by this section
are maintained.
   (D)   Conditions for keeping chickens on single-family residential lots of
at least two acres: The purpose of this section is to create appropriate
regulations for the keeping of chickens as pets and/or a personal food source.
The purpose of this section is not to create regulations for the commercial
sale or distribution of chickens or eggs.
      (1)   A special use permit is required for a maximum of five chickens.
The term chicken includes only hens; roosters are prohibited.
      (2)   Owner shall register with the Illinois Department of Agriculture
Livestock Premises Registration, and must have proof of registration on-site.
      (3)   A chicken coop and chicken run shall be required on all properties
where chickens are kept.
      (4)   The chicken coop shall accommodate all chickens permitted on the
property, must be located in the rear yard, and must be a minimum distance of
20 feet from the nearest property line.
      (5)   All chicken runs shall be located in the rear yard, be
appropriately fenced to prevent the chickens from leaving the run, provide 16
square feet of permeable land for each chicken, and be located at least 20 feet
from the nearest property line.
      (6)   Free range chickens are not permitted.
      (7)   A metal sealable food container is required. Chicken feed shall be
kept in a predator-proof/rodent-proof container.
      (8)   Waste material must be disposed of in a manner that will not cause
odor, or attract flies or vermin.
      (9)   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained to be neat
and clean and free of undue accumulation of waste to prevent odors detectable
on adjacent properties.
      (10)   No person shall allow chickens to produce noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons in surrounding properties.
      (11)   The owner of the chickens shall ensure that their birds are cared
for properly when ill and disposed of in a manner that does not endanger the
public health and safety when their birds die.
      (12)   No chickens may be kept or maintained to be used for the purpose
of fighting.
      (13)   City of Troy enforcement officials and government health
officials, or their designee(s) may inspect the conditions where the chickens
are kept at any time during regular business hours.
(1986 Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 1992-13, passed 5-9-1992; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-
2020; Ord. 2024-17, passed 4-15-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an
infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any
public place whereby the health of man or beast may be affected.
   (B)   No diseased animal shall be shipped or removed from the premises of
its owner except under the supervision of the Law Enforcement and Emergency
Services Committee.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Law Enforcement and Emergency Services
Committee to secure the disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment
of any affected premises so as to prevent the communication or spread of
contagion or infection, except in cases where the State Veterinarian is
empowered to act.
(1986 Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 5-5-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08 KEEPING OF SWINE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, it shall be unlawful to
keep any live swine in the city, excepting that one exotic swine of the species
commonly referred to as “Vietnamese pot belly pig” may be kept at each
residence. Any Vietnamese pot belly pig kept in the city must be maintained
primarily within the residence itself and shall not be maintained in an outdoor
enclosure or pen or allowed to run at large or unleashed in the city.
(1986 Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 1992-30, passed 10-5-1992) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09 CLEANLINESS OF STABLES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall cause or allow any stable or place where any animal is or
may be kept to become unclean or unwholesome.
(1986 Code, § 6-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.10 NONDOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall confine in any cage, pen or other enclosure, either in
or outside a dwelling or other building, any live animal or live reptile of any
species which is of the class of ferae naturae or nondomesticated.
   (B)   Pet stores within the city are exempt from division (A) of this
section, except for the keeping of certain animals and reptiles as stated in
division (C) of this section.
   (C)   No person, business association or corporation may keep any lion,
tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, Canada lynx,
bobcat, jaguarundi, hyena or coyote or any poisonous reptile in any place other
than a properly maintained zoological park, circus, scientific or educational
institution research laboratory, veterinary hospital or animal refuge.
   (D)   It is no defense to a violation of this section that the keeper of any
animal or poisonous reptile which is prohibited by division (C) of this section
has attempted to domesticate the animal or poisonous reptile.
   (E)   The keeping of any animal or reptile prohibited above shall be deemed
a nuisance and shall be subject to summary abatement by any police officer.
   (F)   Exhibitions or parades of animals which are ferae naturae in the eyes
of the law may be conducted, kept or harbored within the city only after
securing a permit from the Chief of Police.
(1986 Code, § 6-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the killing of any animal
in the city other than as prescribed by law.
(1986 Code, § 6-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly provides to the contrary, the definitions set
forth below shall apply to this code. Further, when construing or interpreting
definitions, purposes or the intent of this code, reference shall be made to
comparable provisions of state law, and every effort shall be made to interpret
this code and state law in a consistent manner, except where conflicts exist,
the more stringent provision shall apply.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed to direct
the Madison County Animal Control Department and to carry out the provisions of
this chapter and state statutes appertaining hereto.
   BITE. To seize or cut with the teeth so as to damage, bruise or break the
skin or tissue.
   CAT.  All male and female members of the family Felidae.
   DOG. All male and female members of the family Canidae.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least four feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a dog, cat or other animal in conjunction with other
measures which may be taken by the owner, such as tethering of the dog, cat or
other animal. The enclosure shall be secure and shall be designed to prevent
the dog, cat or other animal from escaping from the enclosure. (Nothing within
this code shall relieve an owner from more restricted definitions or
requirements of enclosure, e.g., for vicious dogs set forth at ILCS Ch. 510,
Act 5, § 15(a)(3).)
   FIGHT. A prearranged conflict between two or more animals, but does not
include a conflict that is unorganized or accidental.
   K-9 PATROL DOG or POLICE DOG. A professionally trained dog used by law
enforcement officers for law enforcement purposes and activities.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap or other such physical restraint having a
tensile strength capable of restraining the animal attached.
   NIP. To pinch or squeeze with teeth with no breaking of skin or tissue.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog, cat or other animal,
or who keeps or harbors a dog, cat or other animal, or who has it in his or her
care, or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog, cat or other
animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her.
   RUNNING AT LARGE or RUN AT LARGE. The failure to confine a dog in accordance
with §
90.52.
(1986 Code, § 6-26) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-
2016)
Statutory reference:
   Animal Control Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, § 1
   Animal Welfare Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 605, § 1
   Domesticated Wild Animals Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 60, § 0.01
   Illinois Domestic Animals Running at Large Act, ILCS Ch. 510, Act 55, § 1
§ 90.26 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to raise, keep or permit any dogs or
cats to remain in the city except as provided under the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 6-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.27 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner to permit a dog, cat or other animal to
run at large. Every dog, cat or other animal within the city shall be prevented
from running at large by:
      (1)   Being restrained in the immediate vicinity of its owner and capable
of following the owner’s commands to immediately return to the owner;
      (2)   Remaining on a leash; or
      (3)   Remaining within an enclosure or fenced area.
   (B)   A dog, cat or other animal running at large is declared to be a
nuisance and a danger, and the Police Department, Animal Control Officer or
other designated city personnel may destroy or impound the dog, cat or other
animal pursuant to this code or state law.
(1986 Code, § 6-28) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED.
   All dogs and cats within the city shall be vaccinated for rabies by a
licensed veterinarian each year, and each dog and cat shall wear a collar and
tag showing that the dog or cat has been vaccinated.
(1986 Code, § 6-29)
§ 90.29 IMPOUNDING AUTHORIZED.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or other employees of the city
designated by the Chief of Police to seize and impound or destroy any dog, cat
or other animal found running at large within the city. All dogs, cats or other
animals seized shall be impounded at a place or places designated by the city.
(1986 Code, § 6-30) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.30 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING.
   If any dog, cat or other animal is impounded, and the owner or keeper of the
dog, cat or other animal is known to the impounding officer or employee by any
tag worn on the dog, cat or other animal, the impounding officer or employee
shall give notice to the owner or keeper of the dog, cat or other animal,
informing him or her of the impounding of the dog, cat or other animal.
(1986 Code, § 6-31) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.31 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   All dogs and cats impounded under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
held for a period of seven days in order to afford an opportunity for the owner
to redeem the same. Other animals may be impounded for a seven-day period,
unless a shorter period is otherwise required by law or the condition of the
animal.
(1986 Code, § 6-32) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.32 IMPOUNDING FEE AND CHARGES.
   Any owner or keeper desiring to redeem an impounded dog, cat or other animal
shall pay the city an impounding fee established by the City Council and any
charges made by the animal shelter facility.
(1986 Code, § 6-33) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.33 VACCINATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO RELEASE FROM IMPOUNDMENT.
   If any dog or cat which has been impounded has not been vaccinated for the
current year, the owner or keeper thereof desiring to redeem the dog or cat
shall advance to the Poundkeeper the fee required to have the dog or cat
vaccinated, and the Poundkeeper shall forthwith cause the dog or cat to be duly
vaccinated by a licensed veterinarian prior to release of the dog or cat.
(1986 Code, § 6-34) (Ord. 1994-09, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 90.34 DISPOSAL OF UNREDEEMED DOGS, CATS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   All impounded dogs and cats which shall not be redeemed as provided by law
shall be humanely destroyed. Nothing herein shall prevent the adoption of such
dogs, cats or other animals in compliance with then existing laws.
(1986 Code, § 6-35) (Ord. 1996-08, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 90.35 BITES.
   (A)   Whenever any dog or cat bites a person, the owner of the dog or cat
shall immediately notify the Chief of Police, who shall order the dog or cat to
be held on the owner’s premises or have it impounded for a period of ten days.
The dog or cat shall be examined immediately after it has bitten anyone and
again at the end of the ten-day period.
   (B)   If at the end of this ten-day period prescribed by division (A) of
this section a veterinarian is convinced that the dog or cat is free from
rabies, he or she shall order the dog or cat released from quarantine or the
pound, as the case may be.
(1986 Code, § 6-36)
§ 90.36 FIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait or keep, train or
transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting, any dog.
(1986 Code, § 6-51) (Ord. 1997-48, passed 10-9-1997; Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-
2016)
VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 90.51 ENFORCEMENT AND AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The city and their agents, employees and assigns shall comply with and
enforce all provisions of the State Animal Control Act (ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§
1 et seq.), and the applicable regulations duly promulgated by the Madison
County Animal Care and Control Administrator and the State Department of
Agriculture as pertaining to vicious or dangerous dogs or other animals.
   (B)   The State's Attorney of Madison County is specifically authorized by
the city to file a complaint to enjoin all persons from maintaining or
protecting dangerous dogs or animals and the State's Attorney is specifically
directed to abate the same and to enjoin the owner of a dangerous dog or other
animal to prevent the animal from leaving the premises of its owner pursuant to
law and the aforesaid statute.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 90.52 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The Administrator shall follow all statutory procedures set forth in ILCS
Ch. 510, Act 5, § 15.1 in determining whether to declare a dog to be a
dangerous dog.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 90.53 VICIOUS DOGS.
   A vicious dog includes any such animal so declared by the Administrator or a
court of competent jurisdiction, as determined by the law in effect at the time
of such declaration.
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-2016)
§ 90.54 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any active-duty K-9 patrol dogs or police
dogs as defined herein.
(1986 Code, § 6-56) (Ord. 1997-48, passed 10-9-1997; Ord. 2016-06, passed 4-4-
2016)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES; SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Vegetation
   
91.01   Injuring trees and shrubs in public places
Noxious Growth
   
91.15   Declared a nuisance; prohibited
   
91.16   Barberry plants
   
91.17   Height; growth which conceals dangerous deposits
   
91.18   Notice to abate
   
91.19   Abatement by city
   
91.20   Special assessment
Removal of Garbage and Debris
   
91.35   Failure to remove garbage and debris from private property
   
91.36   Garbage and debris defined
   
91.37   Notice to abate
   
91.38   Abatement by city
Charges; Filing and Release of Liens
   
91.50   Charges; filing of lien claim
   
91.51   Notice of filing of lien claim; release of lien
   
91.52   Foreclosure of lien
   
91.53   Duty of the City Attorney to file suit
Signs and Advertisements
   
91.65   Signs, advertisements prohibited on public property; removal
   
91.66   Signs, advertisements prohibited on trees and shrubs
   
91.67   Signs or advertisements on private property of others
   
91.68   Signs obstructing motorists
   
91.69   Defacing, injuring signs or advertisements
Food Sanitation
   
91.80   Food sanitation
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see also
Ch. 131
   Prohibited advertising declared a nuisance, see §
131.15
VEGETATION
§ 91.01 INJURING TREES AND SHRUBS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any public
place.
(1986 Code, § 21-1) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
NOXIOUS GROWTH
§ 91.15 DECLARED A NUISANCE; PROHIBITED.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr and any rank
vegetable growth which exhales unpleasant or obnoxious odors found growing in
any lot or tract of land in the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
it shall be unlawful to permit these weeds to grow or remain in any place.
(1986 Code, § 21-16) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 BARBERRY PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful and is declared a nuisance for any person to plant or
permit the growth of any bush of any species of tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris, or its horticultural varieties
within the city.
(1986 Code, § 21-17) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 HEIGHT; GROWTH WHICH CONCEALS DANGEROUS DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any weeds, grass or plants,
other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow to a
height exceeding eight inches, or to permit any rank vegetable growth which may
conceal conditions or deposits dangerous to the public health anywhere in the
city. Any such plants or weeds are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1986 Code, § 21-18) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.18 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to serve or cause to be
served a notice by personal service, notice posted on the property or certified
mail, return receipt requested, upon the owner or occupant of any premises on
which weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within five days.
(1986 Code, § 21-19) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999; Ord. 2012-08, passed 7-2-
2012)
§ 91.19 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If a person served pursuant to §
91.18 does not abate the nuisance within five days, the city may proceed
thereafter to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expenses of the
abatement. The expense of the abatement by the city shall be charged to and
paid by the owner or occupant.
(1986 Code, § 21-20) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999; Ord. 2012-08, passed 7-2-
2012)
§ 91.20 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   In addition to any other method authorized by law, if: (1) a property owner
is cited with a code violation under this subchapter, requiring the cutting of
grass and weeds; (2) noncompliance is found upon reinspection of the property
after the due date for compliance with an order to correct the code violation
or with an order for abatement; (3) costs for services rendered by the
municipality to correct the code violation remain unpaid; and (4) a lien has
been filed of record by the municipality in the office of the Recorder, then
those costs may be collected as a special assessment on the property pursuant
to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 9-2-4.5. Upon payment of the costs by the owner of
record or persons interested in the property, the lien shall be released by the
municipality and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as the
filing of notice of the lien.
(1986 Code, § 21-21) (Ord. 2007-17, passed 10-15-2007)
REMOVAL OF GARBAGE AND DEBRIS
§ 91.35 FAILURE TO REMOVE GARBAGE AND DEBRIS FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of private property to fail to remove
garbage and debris from the private property.
(1986 Code, § 21-31) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.36 GARBAGE AND DEBRIS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, GARBAGE AND DEBRIS shall include but not be
limited to demolition materials, food and industrial processing waste, garden
trash, land clearing wastes, mixed refuse, noncombustible refuse, rubbish and
trash as those terms are defined in § 1653 of the Solid Waste Disposal District
Act, ILCS Ch. 70, Act 3105, § 3.
(1986 Code, § 21-32) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 91.37 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   The Building Inspector shall serve, or cause to be served, a notice by
personal service, notice posted on the property or certified mail, return
receipt requested, upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which trash or
debris has been allowed to accumulate in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(1986 Code, § 21-33) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 91.38 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If a person served pursuant to §
91.37 does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the city may proceed
thereafter to abate the nuisance, keeping an account of the expenses of the
abatement. The expense of the abatement by the city shall be charged to and
paid by the owner or occupant.
(1986 Code, § 21-34) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
CHARGES; FILING AND RELEASE OF LIENS
§ 91.50 CHARGES; FILING OF LIEN CLAIM.
   (A)   Charges for the abatement of the nuisances described in this chapter
shall be as follows.
      (1)   The minimum charge for administrative costs shall be $250.
      (2)   If any labor is provided by city employees, the labor shall be
charged at the rate of $60 per hour, in addition to the minimum charge above.
      (3)   All costs of abating the nuisance, including but not limited to all
labor, expenses of abatement including the rental of any equipment or disposal
and all other costs incurred by the city including reasonable attorney fees.
Abatement includes the cost of removing debris or litter which may be necessary
to cut the weeds or other vegetation.
      (4)   The cost of any independent contractor hired by the city.
      (5)   The costs of preparing the notice of violation and lien, recording
the lien, releasing the lien and determining ownership of the land.
   (B)   Upon completion of the abatement of the nuisance, the City
Administrator shall prepare and deliver an invoice for all charges attributable
to abatement and related activity. In the event that the invoice is not paid by
the close of business on the tenth day following the date of the invoice, the
City Attorney shall prepare and file a lien against the property where the
abatement occurred.
   (C)   All of the above costs shall be a lien against the property and a
charge against the owner or occupants. The lien shall be recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds as soon as practical after the nuisance being abated
and the invoice for the charges being unpaid. The form of the lien shall
conform to the requirements of law.
(1986 Code, § 21-41) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 91.51 NOTICE OF FILING OF LIEN CLAIM; RELEASE OF LIEN.
   Notice of the lien claim filed pursuant to §
91.50 shall be mailed to the owner of the premises if his or her address is
known. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of, or persons
interested in, the land after a notice of lien has been filed, the city shall
execute a release of the lien and the City Clerk shall cause the release to be
recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
(1986 Code, § 21-42) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 91.52 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien under this subchapter shall be sold for
nonpayment of the charges. The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the
charges after deducting the costs, as in the case of the foreclosure of
statutory liens. The foreclosures shall be in equity in the name of the city.
(1986 Code, § 21-43) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
§ 91.53 DUTY OF THE CITY ATTORNEY TO FILE SUIT.
    The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
proceedings, in the name of the city, in any court having jurisdiction over the
matter, against any land concerning which the City Clerk has recorded a notice
of lien in the County Recorder’s office.
(1986 Code, § 21-44) (Ord. 1999-12, passed 4-5-1999)
SIGNS AND ADVERTISEMENTS
§ 91.65 SIGNS, ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; REMOVAL.
   (A)   No signs or advertisements shall be installed or erected upon any
public property.
   (B)   Any person for whose benefit any sign is erected in violation of
division (A), or any person who is the subject of any such sign, shall be
presumed to have authorized the erection of the sign and, upon 24-hours’ notice
by telephone by the Police Department, he or she shall remove the sign.
(1986 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 1981-11, passed 7-6-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.66 SIGNS, ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED ON TREES AND SHRUBS.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place in the city.
(1986 Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.67 SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any sign or advertisement on any property
without the written consent of the owner thereof.
(1986 Code, § 3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.68 SIGNS OBSTRUCTING MOTORISTS.
   No sign structure shall be erected at any street intersection in such a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision of motorists in a moving traffic
lane of intersecting traffic.
(1986 Code, § 3-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.69 DEFACING, INJURING SIGNS OR ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or deface any lawful
advertisement or notice.
(1986 Code, § 3-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
FOOD SANITATION
§ 91.80 FOOD SANITATION.
   The direct sale of baked goods as described in § 4 of the Food Handling
Regulation Enforcement Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 625, § 4, and regulated through
the use of a home kitchen operation, as described by § 3.6 of the Food Handling
Regulation Enforcement Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 625, § 3.6, is authorized.
(Ord. 2014-12, passed 6-16-2014)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Throwing substances on streets, alleys and sidewalks
   
92.002   Injury to pavements
   
92.003   Reserved
   
92.004   Merchandise on sidewalks
   
92.005   Obstructions
   
92.006   Encroachments
   
92.007   View at corners
   
92.008   Display of wares, advertisements limited
   
92.009   Poles and wires
   
92.010   Dangerous, overhanging trees or shrubs
   
92.011   Encroachments within public rights-of-way
Administration and Enforcement
   
92.025   Enforcement powers of Director of Public Works
   
92.026   City employees working under Director of Public Works
   
92.027   Report of violations
   
92.028   Street lighting system
Construction and Repair
   
92.040   Order of Council authorizing construction or repair required; bond
   
92.041   Duty to barricade
   
92.042   Disturbing barricades
Excavations
   
92.055   Excavations generally
   
92.056   Permits
   
92.057   Trees, shrubs and underground utilities; permit required
House Numbering
   
92.070   Required
   
92.071   Records
   
92.072   Affixing number to building
Driveways
   
92.085   Permit required
   
92.086   Application for permit
   
92.087   Certain permits to be approved by Council
   
92.088   Permit fee
   
92.089   Grade surfaces
   
92.090   Specifications
   
92.091   Maintenance responsibilities
   
92.092   Culverts
   
92.093   Culverts in existing developed areas
Small Wireless Facilities
   
92.105   Purpose and scope
   
92.106   Definitions
   
92.107   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
92.108   Dispute resolution
   
92.109   Indemnification
   
92.110   Insurance
   
92.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and building regulations, see
Ch. 151
   Completion of streets required prior to issuance of building permit, see §
151.025
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
   Motor vehicles and traffic, see Title VII
   Requirements for streets and walks in mobile home subdivisions, see §§
152.115 –
152.118
   Subdivisions; street construction, design, see
Ch. 153
   Vehicles for Hire, see
Ch. 112
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-80-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 THROWING SUBSTANCES ON STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit or place upon
any street, highway, alley or sidewalk in the city any bottles, cans, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, coal, gravel, sand, mud or any other substance likely to
injure any person, vehicle or animal.
   (B)   Any person throwing, depositing or placing any material in violation
of division (A) of this section shall immediately remove the material from the
street, alley or sidewalk.
(1986 Code, § 18-1) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see also §
131.02
§ 92.002 INJURY TO PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street, sidewalk or alley pavement while the same is
guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any street,
sidewalk or alley pavement.
(1986 Code, § 18-2) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.003 RESERVED.
§ 92.004 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks preparatory to
delivery, provided that the usable width of the sidewalk is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet and that no such article shall remain on the walk for
more than one-half hour.
(1986 Code, § 18-4)
§ 92.005 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way, except as may
be specifically authorized by this code, other ordinance or by the Director of
Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-5) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.006 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or alley.
(1986 Code, § 18-6) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
92.011
§ 92.007 VIEW AT CORNERS.
   On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land bounded by intersecting
property lines and a line adjoining these property lines at points 30 feet from
the point of intersection, no obstruction, whether natural or man-made, shall
intrude into the air space that is between three feet and ten feet above the
level of the adjacent street.
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.008 DISPLAY OF WARES, ADVERTISEMENTS LIMITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other
public place for the display of goods or other merchandise for sale or to write
or mark any signs or advertisements on any pavements without first obtaining a
permit from the city. Permits may be obtained from the City Clerk and shall be
limited to two 2-day sales annually for each business.
(1986 Code, § 18-8) (Ord. 1992-20, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 92.009 POLES AND WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any
poles or wires over or under any public place, street, alley, easement or other
public way without first having secured a permit from the city.
   (B)   Any person given the right to maintain poles and wires in the streets,
alleys or other public places in the city shall, in the absence of a provision
in any franchise concerning the subject, keep the wires and poles free from and
away from any trees or shrubs insofar as may be possible and shall keep all
trees and shrubs properly trimmed and subject to the supervision of the
Director of Public Works, so that no injury shall be done to the poles or wires
or shrubs and trees by contact.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or other rope to any tree
without permission of the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-9) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.010 DANGEROUS, OVERHANGING TREES OR SHRUBS.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the city in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or
travel on the public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting
premises on which the trees or shrubs grow so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which the
tree or shrub grows or stands.
(1986 Code, § 18-10)
§ 92.011 ENCROACHMENTS WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA. The area lying between the project right-of-
way limits and the platted street limits which the city, by concurrence in the
establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the state to enter
to perform all necessary construction operations.
      ENCROACHMENT. Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object
of any kind (with the exemption of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right-of-way or the roadway right-of-way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
      PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT. Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign
or similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent
to the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highway, the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confined by adjacent buildings.
      PROJECT RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas within the project right-of-way lines
established jointly by the city and the state, which will be free of
encroachments except as hereinafter defined.
      ROADWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or
by fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary
easement during the time the easement is in effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment as
defined herein within the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-
of-way where no project right-of-way lines have been established.
   (C)   Project right-of-way lines have been established as being coincidental
with the roadway right-of-way lines.
   (D)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance unless in direct
conflict herewith.
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
as set forth in §
92.999.
(1986 Code, § 18-11) (Ord. 1989-15, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 2004-31, passed 11-1-
2004) Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see also §
92.006
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 92.025 ENFORCEMENT POWERS OF DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways shall be
under the supervision of the Director of Public Works. He or she shall have
supervision over all work thereon and shall be charged with the enforcement of
all provisions of this code and other ordinances relating to such public
places, except those relating to traffic.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall have the duty of keeping the
streets and alleys clean, free from obstructions and in good repair. He or she
shall see that all street drains are free and unobstructed and shall perform
other duties as may be required by this code, other ordinance or by the Mayor
and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 18-26) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012)
§ 92.026 CITY EMPLOYEES WORKING UNDER DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   All city employees assigned to the Street Department shall perform their
duties, under this chapter, subject to the orders and under the supervision of
the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-27) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012)
§ 92.027 REPORT OF VIOLATIONS.
   The Director of Public Works shall report to the Mayor and City Council any
violations with relation to the care or use of streets, alleys or sidewalks in
the city, of which he or she may become cognizant.
(1986 Code, § 18-28) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012)
§ 92.028 STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM.
   The Law Enforcement and Emergency Services Committee shall supervise the
lighting of the public streets and alleys, and shall keep the lighting system
in efficient operation and good repair.
(1986 Code, § 18-29) (Ord. 1997-19, passed 5-5-1997)
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 92.040 ORDER OF COUNCIL AUTHORIZING CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR REQUIRED; BOND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public
street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to repair the same except upon
order of the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   Each person obtaining permission to construct or repair a street,
sidewalk or alley pursuant to division (A) of this section shall file a bond
with sureties approved by the Mayor and City Council, conditioned to indemnify
the city from any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the
manner of doing the work. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the estimated
value of the improvement as determined by the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 18-46) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.041 DUTY TO BARRICADE.
   (A)   Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or
other public place or making an excavation in the same shall maintain suitable
barricades and lights to prevent injury to any person or vehicle by reason of
the work.
   (B)   Any defect in pavement shall be barricaded and any person maintaining
any opening or excavation shall barricade and light the opening or excavation
as long as it remains open or, in the case of a defect in the pavement, as long
as the defect exists.
(1986 Code, § 18-47)
§ 92.042 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricades or lights
lawfully placed in any public street, alley or sidewalk of the city.
(1986 Code, § 18-48) Penalty, see §
92.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 92.055 EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Bracing; preventing collapse. Proper bracing shall be maintained on
all excavations to prevent the collapse of adjoining grounds. No excavation
shall be extended at any place below the surface beyond the opening at the
surface.
(1986 Code, § 18-86)
   (B)   Preventing damage to underground pipes and the like; notice. No person
shall injure any pipes, cables or conduits while making any excavation or
tunnel. Prior to commencing work, notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any pipes, cables or conduits or to the Street Department or
Director of Public Works when the pipes, cables or conduits may be endangered
or affected by the making of any excavation or tunnel.
(1986 Code, § 18-87)
   (C)   Damaging trees, and the like. No unnecessary damage or injury shall be
done to any tree or shrub or the roots thereof while making any excavation or
tunnel in the city.
(1986 Code, § 18-88)
   (D)   Temporary sidewalks. If any sidewalk is blocked by any excavation or
tunnel work in the city, a temporary sidewalk shall be constructed or provided
which shall be safe for travel and convenient for users.
(1986 Code, § 18-89)
   (E)   Restoring surface.
      (1)   Any person making any excavation or tunnel in or under any public
street, alley or public place in the city shall restore the surface thereof to
its original condition. Refills shall be properly tamped and any bracing in the
tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground.
      (2)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and subject to the supervision of the Director of
Public Works. If the work is not done within ten days after restoration is
possible, the city may restore the surface and charge the cost thereof to the
permittee.
(1986 Code, § 18-90)
   (F)   Inspections; notice. The Director of Public Works shall, from time to
time, inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other public place in the city to see to the enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least
24 hours before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(1986 Code, § 18-91)
(Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.056 PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to tunnel under or to
make an excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the city
without having first obtained a permit therefor.
(1986 Code, § 18-101)
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit required by this section shall
be made to the City Clerk, and shall describe the location, size, purpose of
the intended excavation, the name of the person doing the excavating work and
the name of the person for whom the work is being done. The application shall
contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances and
laws relating to the work to be done.
(1986 Code, § 18-102)
   (C)   Application to establish time limit for completion; extension;
compliance. Each application for a permit required by this section shall state
the length of time it is estimated will elapse from the commencement of the
work until the restoration of the surface of the ground, or until the refill is
ready for the pavement to be put on by the city if the city restores the
surface pavement. It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time
limitation unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the City
Administrator.
(1986 Code, § 18-103)
   (D)   Fee. The fee for a permit required by this section shall be as
established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 18-104)
   (E)   Bond. No permit required by this section shall be issued unless the
applicant has filed with the City Clerk a bond conditioned to indemnify the
city for any loss, liability or damage that may accrue from or because of the
making, existence or manner of guarding or constructing any such tunnel or
excavation. The bond shall have as surety a corporation licensed to do business
in the state as a surety company. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the
estimated cost of completing or restoring the excavation or tunnel as
determined by the City Administrator.
(1986 Code, § 18-105)
   (F)   Issuance. No such permits shall be issued except on order of the
Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-106)
   (G)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to officers
or employees of the city engaged in doing work for the city or to persons doing
work for the city under contract.
(1986 Code, § 18-107)
   (H)   Compliance with terms of permit. It shall be unlawful to make any
excavation or tunnel in any way contrary to or at variance with the terms of a
permit issued pursuant to this section.
(1986 Code, § 18-108)
(Ord. 1991-02, passed 2-4-1991; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10,
passed 8-6-2012) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.057 TREES, SHRUBS AND UNDERGROUND UTILITIES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to plant or remove any tree or shrub in any
public street or parkway or other public place in the city without having
secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Application for a permit required by this section shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall be referred by him or her to the Mayor and Council for
action.
(1986 Code, § 18-116) Penalty, see §
92.999
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 92.070 REQUIRED.
   All lots, buildings and structures in the city shall be numbered in
accordance with records kept by the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 18-131)
§ 92.071 RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall keep records showing the proper street number of every
lot in the city which records shall be open for inspection by the public.
(1986 Code, § 18-132)
§ 92.072 AFFIXING NUMBER TO BUILDING.
   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every building in the city
to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures showing the
number of the building. Any person failing to number a building owned or
occupied by him or her after receiving notice to do so from the City Clerk
shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(1986 Code, § 18-133) Penalty, see §
92.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 92.085 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across any
sidewalk in the city without first having obtained a permit therefor.
(1986 Code, § 18-181)
§ 92.086 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a permit required by this subchapter shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall be accompanied by the fee required by §
92.088.
(1986 Code, § 18-182)
§ 92.087 CERTAIN PERMITS TO BE APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   No permit for the construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for the
habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served, shall
be issued except upon the order of the building inspectors. All permits shall
be subject to approval of the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-183) (Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-
6-2012)
§ 92.088 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a permit required by this subchapter shall be as established by
the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 18-184)
§ 92.089 GRADE SURFACES.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery or hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of that portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
(1986 Code, § 18-185) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.090 SPECIFICATIONS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with
specifications adopted by the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 18-186)
§ 92.091 MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk and free from obstruction and
openings.
(1986 Code, § 18-187)
§ 92.092 CULVERTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner or the builder to
install a minimum of a 12-inch diameter by 20-foot long corrugated metal
culvert pipe at each driveway entrance. Any additional length or larger
diameter culvert pipe shall be determined by the Director of Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-188) (Ord. 2001-19, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-
6-2012)
§ 92.093 CULVERTS IN EXISTING DEVELOPED AREAS.
   Corrugated metal culvert pipe may be used in existing developed areas to
repair or improve drainage with the prior written approval of the Director of
Public Works.
(1986 Code, § 18-189) (Ord. 2004-03, passed 2-2-2004; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-
2012)
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 92.105 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Act.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This subchapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
subchapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state
laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.106 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.I.a.i through Section VI.D.I.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance
adopted by the City pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.107 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but
not subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-
of-way in any zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and alt
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basts and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th
day after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the
receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed
approved notice shall not preclude the City’s denial of the permit request
within the time limits as provided under this subchapter.
         (d)   1.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
            2.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Pole attachment agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
city and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the city for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by
the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a license supplement of the Master Pole Attachment Agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. 
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this subchapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’s designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
subchapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms COMMUNICATIONS
SPACE, COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE, and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this collocation requirements and
conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required to collocation
small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or category of utility
poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems on a single utility
pole. However, with respect to an application for the collocation of a small
wireless facility associated with a new utility pole, the city may propose that
the small wireless facility be collocated on an existing utility pole or
existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of the proposed
collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right to use the
alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the alternate
location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional material
costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five (45) feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a variance in conformance with procedures, terms and conditions
set forth in the Troy Code of Ordinances.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d) of this section; or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   Exceptions to Applicability. Nothing in this subchapter authorizes a person
to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18c-7201), Metra Commuter Rail or
any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in §
16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5, § 16-102), without the
consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or electric utility.
The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to an electric or gas public
utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are being used,
developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of § 16-108.5(i) of the
Public Utilities Act.
      (4)   For the purposes of this subsection, PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act (ILCS Ch. 220, Act 5,
§ 3-105). Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to relieve any person
from any requirement (a) to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization
to offer cable service or video service or (b) to obtain any required
permission to install, place, maintain, or operate communications facilities,
other than small wireless facilities subject to this subchapter.
   (E)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1,2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1,2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1,2018, shall
comply with this subchapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this subchapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the city that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
city’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
   (F)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (G)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.108 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of Madison County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
city shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to
be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.109 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this subchapter and the Act. A wireless provider has
no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses
as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees
or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may
have against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.110 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; OR
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
92.011 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
(1986 Code, § 18-11) (Ord. 1989-15, passed 3-6-1989; Ord. 2004-31, passed 11-1-
2004)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT VENDORS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
117.   ROOFING CONTRACTORS
      
118.   REGULATION OF USE OF CANNABIS
      
119.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
Business Registration
   
110.01   Application of subchapter provisions
   
110.02   Registration required; time; place; forms
   
110.03   Registration fee
   
110.04   Clerk to forward information to Police and Fire Departments
   
110.05   Change of ownership, type or location of business
   
110.06   Notification when business is terminated
   
110.07   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverage licenses, see §§
116.015 through
116.049
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
   Licensing and regulation of adult entertainment establishments, see §§
114.01 through
114.03
   Licensing of delivery trucks, see §§
112.50 through
112.55
   Licensing of dogs and cats, see
Ch. 90
   Licensing of mobile home parks, see §§
152.015 through
152.023
   Licensing of taxicabs and drivers of taxicabs, see §§
112.01 through
112.17
   Municipal use tax, see §
36.022
   Retailer’s occupation tax, see §
36.020
   Service occupation tax, see §
36.021
   Taxation, see
Ch. 36
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to fix the amount, terms and manner of issuing and revoking
licenses, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-24-1
BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 110.01 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all businesses having a physical office
location or a mailing address, either of which is located within the city
limits.
(1986 Code, § 12-46) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
§ 110.02 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; TIME; PLACE; FORMS.
   All business enterprises, as the same are defined and identified now or
hereafter by the United States Internal Revenue Service and which are
physically situated within the city, in whole or in part shall register at
least 30 days before the beginning of business operations. The registration
shall be made one time only and with the City Clerk on forms provided by the
city.
(1986 Code, § 12-47) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983; Ord. 1987-1, passed 1-19-
1987)
§ 110.03 REGISTRATION FEE.
   Each registration of a business shall be accompanied by a fee established by
the City Council to offset the costs of maintaining the registration
information by the city.
(1986 Code, § 12-48) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
§ 110.04 CLERK TO FORWARD INFORMATION TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   A copy of the registration information required by this subchapter shall be
provided by the City Clerk to the Police Department. Any information of concern
for firefighting purposes shall be forwarded by the City Clerk to the City
Volunteer Fire Department.
(1986 Code, § 12-49) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
§ 110.05 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, TYPE OR LOCATION OF BUSINESS.
   In the event of a change of ownership, type or the location of a business, a
new business registration filing shall be made within 60 days of any such
change. A filing fee established by the City Council shall be paid for the
opening of a new file when a change is made pursuant to this section.
(1986 Code, § 12-50) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
§ 110.06 NOTIFICATION WHEN BUSINESS IS TERMINATED.
   Upon the termination of business registered pursuant to this subchapter, the
owner shall notify the city of the termination to enable the city to close the
information registration file on that particular business.
(1986 Code, § 12-51) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
§ 110.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to comply with this subchapter shall be punishable in accordance
with §
10.99. The city shall notify any business enterprise in violation of this
subchapter of the fact of the violation and give them at least ten days’ time
within which to come into compliance, with the penalties to run from and
beginning on the eleventh day after the notice is mailed by first class or
certified mail.
(1986 Code, § 12-52) (Ord. 1983-3, passed 6-6-1983)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT VENDORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Solicitors
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Policy on soliciting
   
111.03   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.04   Compliance
   
111.05   (Reserved)
   
111.06   Permit required
   
111.07   Application for permit
   
111.08   Documents accompanying application for permit
   
111.09   Presentation of application to Police Department
   
111.10   Investigation of applicant
   
111.11   Issuance or denial of permit
   
111.12   Limitation on number of permits
   
111.13   (Reserved)
   
111.14   Permit fee
   
111.15   Revocation of permits
   
111.16   Hours
Soliciting by Persons Standing on Highways from Occupants of Vehicles
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   Required filings by the authorized solicitation agency and by the
solicitation agent or agents with the City Clerk
   
111.27   Age and clothing requirements
   
111.28   Limitations regarding location of solicitation at full-stop
intersections
   
111.29   Solicitation of contributions
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to regulate hawkers, transient vendors and peddlers, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5
SOLICITORS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term SOLICITOR shall mean any
person who requests donations or who attempts to sell or sells tangible
property, including subscriptions to any paper, book, magazine, periodical or
pamphlet, or who takes orders for magazines to be delivered by mail or freight
on the same day or in the future, or who attempts to sell or sells investment
contracts or any type of contract and delivery is made on the same day or in
the future, or who sells or attempts to sell any type of personal service or
services within the city.
(1986 Code, § 12-66) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 111.02 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of the city that the occupant or occupants
of the residences within the city shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 111.03 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this subchapter shall
comply with the following directions.
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   A sign shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the
applicable words, as follows:
      (1)   "ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED";
      (2)   "NO SOLICITORS INVITED"; or
      (3)   "NO SOLICITING".
   (C)   The sign so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 111.04 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice, provided
for in §
111.03, and be governed by the statement contained on the notice.
   (B)   If the notice states "ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED," then the
solicitor, not possessing a valid certificate of registration, as herein
provided for, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   If the notice states, "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," or "NO SOLICITING",
then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully
depart from the premises.
   (D)   No solicitor shall solicit at any residence where the owner or
occupant has provided notice pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) above. Further,
no solicitor shall go upon any premises and ring the doorbell, or go upon or
near any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract
the attention of the occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice
exhibited at the residence pursuant to divisions (B) and (C) above.
(Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 111.05 (RESERVED).
§ 111.06 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be a solicitor within the city
without first obtaining a permit.
   (B)   All solicitors shall have issued permit on their person at all times
and present this permit upon the request of any resident being solicited.
   (C)   Permits are required for all solicitors, excluding non-profit and not-
for-profit organizations, schools, churches, and the like, within Troy city
limits.
(1986 Code, § 12-67) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit required by this subchapter shall be made to
the Police Chief.
   (B)   The applicant shall sign the application stating his or her legal
name, address, age, employer, local address and length of time in the city.
(1986 Code, § 12-68) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024)
§ 111.08 DOCUMENTS ACCOMPANYING APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Each applicant for a permit required by this subchapter shall furnish:
   (A)   Evidence of his or her employment or that he or she is self-employed;
   (B)   Evidence that he or she is of legal age;
   (C)   A statement that he or she shall notify the city when all
solicitations have been completed;
   (D)   A statement that he or she shall follow all Center for Disease Control
(CDC) guidelines at all times.
   (E)   A legible photocopy of the applicant’s driver’s license, state
identification card, or passport. In addition, the form of identification used
to make application must be provided at the time of permit issuance and will be
photocopies onto the solicitor permit.
(1986 Code, § 12-69) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024)
§ 111.09 PRESENTATION OF APPLICATION TO POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All applicants for solicitation permits present their applications first to
the Police Department so that the backgrounds of the applicants can be
reviewed. Those applicants with backgrounds that cannot be accurately checked
despite the best efforts of the Police Department shall not be granted a
permit.
(1986 Code, § 12-70) (Ord. 1983-2, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-
2021)
§ 111.10 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Police Department will notify the applicant of background investigation
results within four business days. If the issuance of a solicitor permit is not
in the best interests of the city, a permit will not be issued. All other
solicitor applications will be forwarded to the City Clerk for permit issue.
(1986 Code, § 12-71) (Ord. 1983-2, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-
2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 111.11 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   After receipt of the application and approved background check from the
Police Chief, the City Clerk will contact the applicant to schedule permit
issuance. Permits will be signed and sealed by the City Clerk or Deputy Clerk
and will indicate the solicitor’s name, company, and permit expiration date.
(1986 Code, § 12-72) (Ord. 1983-2, passed 3-7-1983; Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-
2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 111.12 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF PERMITS.
   There shall be no limit to the number of solicitor permits issued by the
city.
(1986 Code, § 12-73) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024)
§ 111.13 (RESERVED).
§ 111.14 PERMIT FEE.
   The fee for a permit required by this subchapter shall be as established by
the City Council shall be paid in the form of cash, bank draft or money order.
The permit shall be evidence of payment. The current fee is $100 for 30
consecutive days for each solicitor and is subject to change/modification by
the City Council. Each permit may be renewed twice (30 days for each
occurrence) during a calendar year at no cost to the applicant. Renewals must
be obtained from the City Clerk or his or her designee.
(1986 Code, § 12-75) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024)
§ 111.15 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be revoked without a
hearing if the solicitor violates any provision of this code, other ordinance
of the city or state law or if any statement made in application for the permit
is found to be false.
(1986 Code, § 12-76) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 111.16 HOURS.
   The hours of operation for solicitors will not be limited by the city,
however, solicitors should be considerate of residents during their hours of
operations.
(1986 Code, § 12-78) (Ord. 2021-07, passed 6-7-2021; Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-
2024)
SOLICITING BY PERSONS STANDING ON HIGHWAYS FROM OCCUPANTS OF VEHICLES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED SOLICITING AGENCY.  An agency which is:
      (1)   Registered with the Attorney General of the state as a charitable
organization as provided by “An Act to regulate solicitation and collection of
funds for charitable, purposes, providing for violations thereof, and making an
appropriation therefor,” approved July 26, 1963, as amended (ILCS Ch. 225, Act
460, §§ 1 et seq.);
      (2)   Engaged in a statewide fundraising activity throughout the state;
and
      (3)   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which are casually related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
   FULL-STOP INTERSECTION. An intersection within the city at which all
traffic, approaching the intersection from all directions, is required to come
to a full stop.
   SOLICITING AGENT. A person who is empowered by an authorized soliciting
agency, as evidenced by a writing executed by the authorized soliciting agency
and filed with the City Clerk, to stand upon a highway within the city for the
purpose of soliciting contributions from the occupants of motor vehicles on
behalf of that authorized soliciting agency.
(1986 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 1989-36, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 111.26 REQUIRED FILINGS BY THE AUTHORIZED SOLICITATION AGENCY AND BY THE
SOLICITATION AGENT OR AGENTS WITH THE CITY CLERK.
   Before an authorized soliciting agency shall solicit contributions from the
occupants of any vehicle on a highway within the city, the authorized
soliciting agency shall first register with the City Clerk by completing a
form, to be provided by the City Clerk, which indicates the complete legal name
of the authorized soliciting agency, the address of its headquarters, the
address of the local chapter or unit which desires to solicit the
contributions, the names of all soliciting agents who will act in behalf of the
authorized soliciting agency, the date when the authorized soliciting agency
became registered with the State Attorney General as a charitable organization,
and which also contains an express undertaking, by the authorized soliciting
agency, that it should be liable for any injuries to any person or property
occurring during the solicitation which are causally related to an act of
ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent. Moreover, no person shall act as a
soliciting agent, in behalf of an authorized soliciting agency, unless he or
she first shall have registered with the City Clerk of the city. As the City
Clerk receives registrations, from either an authorized soliciting agency or
from a soliciting agent, she shall note on those registrations the time and the
date that the registrations were filed with her. A registration filed by an
authorized soliciting agency with the City Clerk shall be effective for only 30
days.
(1986 Code, § 12-102) (Ord. 1989-36, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 111.27 AGE AND CLOTHING REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the act of solicitation, for an authorized
soliciting agency, within the meaning of this subchapter, unless that person
shall be at least 16 years of age and, in addition, shall be wearing a high
visibility vest while engaging in the act of solicitation.
(1986 Code, § 12-103) (Ord. 1989-36, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 111.28 LIMITATIONS REGARDING LOCATION OF SOLICITATION AT FULL-STOP
INTERSECTIONS.
   Only one authorized soliciting agency at a time shall be permitted to
solicit contributions from occupants of vehicles at any particular full-stop
intersection within the city. If more than one authorized soliciting agency
desires to solicit contributions from occupants of vehicles at a particular
full-stop intersection within the city, the authorized soliciting agency which
first filed its registration with the City Clerk shall be given preference.
(1986 Code, § 12-104) (Ord. 1989-36, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 111.29 SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   If all the conditions set forth in this subchapter are met, for the
soliciting agent and the authorized soliciting agency, the soliciting agent may
stand upon a highway at a full-stop intersection within the city, and may
solicit contributions for the authorized soliciting agency from the occupants
of vehicles coming to a stop at that intersection.
(1986 Code, § 12-105) (Ord. 1989-36, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any solicitor who violates any provision of this chapter shall be penalized
as provided in §
10.99 of the city’s Code of Ordinances.
(Ord._2024-51, passed 8-5-2024)
CHAPTER 112: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
Taxicabs; Licenses
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Application for license
   
112.04   Character of applicant
   
112.05   Insurance requirements
   
112.06   License fee
   
112.07   Term of license
   
112.08   Stickers
   
112.09   Identification of motor number, state and local license numbers
   
112.10   State license required
   
112.11   Condition of vehicle; inspections
   
112.12   Company name to be affixed to vehicle
   
112.13   Taxicab numbers
   
112.14   Unlawful use of vehicle
   
112.15   Nonexclusive nature of licenses
   
112.16   Fares
   
112.17   Taxicab stands
Taxicab Drivers
   
112.30   License required
   
112.31   Application for license
   
112.32   Issuance of license
   
112.33   License fee
   
112.34   Term of license
   
112.35   Employment of unlicensed drivers prohibited
   
112.36   Conduct of driver
   
112.37   Obedience to traffic rules, acceptance of passengers
   
112.38   Use of shortest route
Delivery Trucks
   
112.50   License required
   
112.51   Application for license
   
112.52   Revocation of license
   
112.53   License fee
   
112.54   Cleanliness of vehicles
   
112.55   Inspection of vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
   Licensing generally, see
Ch. 110
    Motor vehicles and traffic, see Title VII
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 92
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-6
TAXICABS; LICENSES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAUFFEUR. Any person whose principal occupation is that of operation of a
motor vehicle, or who directly or indirectly receives pay or any compensation
whatsoever for any work or services in connection with the operation of a motor
vehicle for the transportation of passengers or merchandise for hire.
   TAXICAB. All motor vehicles carrying passengers for hire, for which public
patronage is listed; however, motor buses, vans or other commercial vehicles
carrying more than nine passengers and used for charter purposes or for the
transportation of school children shall not be considered taxicabs under this
chapter.
(1986 Code, § 22-16) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, as owner, principal, agent, employee,
lessee or licensee, to operate or permit to be operated any taxicab in the city
unless a license has been issued by the City Clerk for the operation of the
taxicab and the license is in full force and effect during the entire time the
taxicab is in operation.
(1986 Code, § 22-17) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for a license required by this subchapter shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk and shall state therein the name of the applicant,
the intended place of business and the number of taxicabs to be operated. If
the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the president and
secretary shall be given.
(1986 Code, § 22-18) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.04 CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to or held by any
person who is not a person of good character or has been convicted of a felony.
No license shall be issued to or be held by any corporation if any officer
thereof would be ineligible for a license under this section.
(1986 Code, § 22-19) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.05 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued unless the applicant
for the license shall file with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance
covering each vehicle sought to be licensed in amounts and in such form as is
required by state law.
(1986 Code, § 22-20) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.06 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee, payable in advance, for a license required by this
subchapter shall be in an amount established by the City Council for each
taxicab operated. Whenever the number of taxicabs shall be increased during the
license year, the licensee shall notify the City Clerk of the change and shall
pay the additional fee. The fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee
required by this code or other ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 22-21) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.07 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The term of a license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be one year.
(1986 Code, § 22-22) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.08 STICKERS.
   The City Clerk shall issue suitable tags and stickers for each taxicab
licensed under this subchapter. The tag or sticker shall be displayed in a
prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use, and may be transferred to
any taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from service if owned by
the operator and after notice to the City Clerk and approval of the Chief of
Police as to the condition of the new taxicab.
(1986 Code, § 22-23) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.09 IDENTIFICATION OF MOTOR NUMBER, STATE AND LOCAL LICENSE NUMBERS.
   Each licensee under this subchapter shall notify the City Clerk of the motor
number and state license number of each taxicab operated and of the
corresponding city tag or sticker number.
(1986 Code, § 22-24) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.10 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall be operated in the city unless it bears a license duly
issued by the state.
(1986 Code, § 22-25) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.11 CONDITION OF VEHICLE; INSPECTIONS.
   No taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with proper brakes,
lights, tires, horn, muffler, rearview mirror and windshield wipers in good
condition. It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to inspect every taxicab
so often as it may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this section.
(1986 Code, § 22-26) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.12 COMPANY NAME TO BE AFFIXED TO VEHICLE.
   Each taxicab operated under this chapter shall have on each side in letters
readable from a distance of 20 feet, the name of the company operating it.
(1986 Code, § 22-27) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.13 TAXICAB NUMBERS.
   If more than one taxicab is operated by any person, each cab shall be
designated by a different number and the number shall appear on each side of
each cab.
(1986 Code, § 22-28) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.14 UNLAWFUL USE OF VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
(1986 Code, § 22-29) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.15 NONEXCLUSIVE NATURE OF LICENSES.
   Any license granted to operators or drivers under this chapter shall be
nonexclusive and nothing contained in this chapter shall be deemed to grant any
person, or operator, a franchise or exclusive right to operate a taxicab within
the city.
(1986 Code, § 22-30) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.16 FARES.
   The rates of fares of taxicabs shall be as approved from time to time by the
City Council by resolution, and no fares charged by any operator of a taxicab
shall be more or less than the fare set by the Council.
(1986 Code, § 22-31) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.17 TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Locations in the city streets may be designated as taxicab stands by
the City Council by resolution.
   (B)   Each cab stand shall be appropriately marked by signs erected under
the supervision of the Chief of Police. It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle, other than a licensed taxicab, in any taxicab stand.
   (C)   A licensed taxicab may be parked in any taxicab stand while the
taxicab is in the control of its driver on duty awaiting a fare.
(1986 Code, § 22-32) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
TAXICAB DRIVERS
§ 112.30 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a taxicab in the city without
first obtaining a license therefor from the city.
(1986 Code, § 22-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.31 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Each applicant for a license required by this subchapter or for a renewal
thereof shall make application in writing to the City Clerk, giving his or her
full name, places of residence for five years prior to making application, age,
height, color of eyes and hair, place of birth, citizenship, whether he or she
has ever been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, and whether any license
previously issued to him or her as a driver has been revoked. The application
shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant and filed with the City Clerk.
(1986 Code, § 22-42) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.32 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon approval by the Chief of Police to the City Clerk that the applicant
for a license required by this subchapter is qualified and following payment of
the fee for the license, the City Clerk shall issue a license.
(1986 Code, § 22-43) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.33 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for a license required by this subchapter shall be as
determined by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 22-44) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.34 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Each license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid for a term of
one year following its issuance.
(1986 Code, § 22-45) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.35 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED DRIVERS PROHIBITED.
   No person licensed to operate a taxicab pursuant to this chapter shall
employ, as a driver of the taxicab, any person not licensed according to the
provisions of state law and the provisions of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 22-46) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.36 CONDUCT OF DRIVER.
   It is unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while on duty to drink any
intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, to shout or
call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace in any way.
(1986 Code, § 22-47) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.37 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC RULES, ACCEPTANCE OF PASSENGERS.
   It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic rules
established by this code, other ordinance or state law, to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab, provided the person is
not intoxicated and conducts himself or herself in an orderly manner. No such
person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a passenger without the
consent of the passenger.
(1986 Code, § 22-48) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
§ 112.38 USE OF SHORTEST ROUTE.
   The driver of a taxicab shall take his or her passenger to his or her
destination by the most direct available route from the place where the
passenger enters the taxicab.
(1986 Code, § 22-49) (Ord. 1984-4, passed 7-2-1984)
DELIVERY TRUCKS
§ 112.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to use any vehicle for retail delivery purposes in the
city without having first secured a license therefor.
(1986 Code, § 22-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.51 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license required by this subchapter shall comply with
the provisions relating to licensing procedure.
(1986 Code, § 22-67)
§ 112.52 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by
the Mayor for any violations of any section of this subchapter, and the
revocation shall be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1986 Code, § 22-68)
§ 112.53 LICENSE FEE.
   The fee for a license required by this subchapter shall be as established by
the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 22-69) (Ord. 1982-10, passed 11-15-1982)
§ 112.54 CLEANLINESS OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   All vehicles coming within the terms of this subchapter shall be kept
in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they
are used. It shall be unlawful to permit stale food, decaying matter or any
other waste material or product to accumulate in or on any vehicle while it is
used.
   (B)   If unwrapped foodstuffs or other material subject to delay are
transported in any such vehicle, the goods shall be carried in a portion or
compartment of the vehicle which is screened and protected against dust and
insects.
(1986 Code, § 22-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.55 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or cause to be made any
inspections that may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 22-71)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Video gaming permitted
Raffles Permitted
   
113.11   Definitions
   
113.12   Classification of licenses
   
113.13   License required
   
113.14   Raffle license application
   
113.15   Responsibility for traffic and parking
   
113.16   Licensee qualifications
   
113.17   License issuance
   
113.18   Limitation on Class C licenses
   
113.19   Licensing fees
   
113.20   Conduct of raffles
   
113.21   Raffles manager; fidelity bond
   
113.22   Records to be kept
   
113.23   Indemnification
 
   
113.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult amusements, see
Ch. 114
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
Statutory reference:
   Illinois Video Gaming Act, see ILCS Ch. 20, Act 40, § 1 et seq.
   Power of city to license, tax and regulate amusements generally, see Ill.
Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, §§ 11-42-1 and 11-42-5
   Power of city to tax coin-operated devices, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-55-
1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 VIDEO GAMING PERMITTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 20, Act 40, §§ 1
et seq.), video gaming and the use of video gaming terminals is hereby
permitted within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   License required. The owner of a video gaming terminal shall obtain a
license for each such device issued by the city. The license required by this
section shall be prominently displayed next to the video gaming terminal. It
shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain, or use or permit
the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his or her premises of any
video gaming terminal unless a valid license issued under this section for the
video gaming terminal is in effect. It shall further be unlawful for any person
to deliver a video gaming terminal within the city unless a license has been
issued by the city and the license fee has been paid for the current year.
   (C)   Applications. Applications for the license required by this section
shall be obtained from the city by submitting a written application to the City
Clerk, on a form provided by the City Clerk.
   (D)   Fee. The annual license fee for each video gaming terminal required by
this section is $250. The fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (E)   Revocation. The Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this
section within five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the
provisions of this section or the Illinois Video Gaming Act in connection with
the operation of any video gaming terminal. After a hearing presided over by
the Mayor, the Mayor may order the revocation of the license upon a finding
that the violation has occurred, and the license shall thereupon be terminated.
   (F)   Classes of liquor licenses allowing video gaming. There shall be five
classes of liquor licenses that allow for video gaming as follows:
      (1)   Class B, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, and not for resale in any form.
      (2)   Class C, for the retail sale of beer and wine only for the use and
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form.
      (3)   Class D, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form, by fraternal
groups, veteran's organizations or a club, at one permanent location.
      (4)   Class E, for the sale and offer for sale at retail, only on the
premises specified in the license, alcoholic liquor for use or consumption on
and off the premises, but not resale in any form.
      (5)   Class G, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form, by businesses
deriving more than 50% of their income from video gaming, at one permanent
location. Every Class G licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Video
Gaming Act (ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.), as amended, and all rules,
regulations and restrictions imposed by the State Gaming Board as amended.
(Ord. 2012-14, passed 8-20-2012; Ord. 2022-11, passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 2022-45,
passed 10-3-2022; Ord. 2023-71, passed 12-18-2023)
RAFFLES PERMITTED
§ 113.11 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUSINESS ORGANIZATION. A voluntary organization composed of individuals and
businesses who have joined together to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial and civic interests of a community.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
operated to benefit an indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to
those eligible for benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
   EDUCATIONAL ORGANIZATION OR INSTITUTION. An organization or institution
organized and operated to provide systematic instruction in useful branches of
learning by methods common to schools and institutions of learning which
compare favorably in their scope and intensity with the course of study
presented in tax-supported schools.
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. An organization of persons having a common interest,
the primary interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and
to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the
burdens of government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by
the government.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization composed of workers organized with the
objective of betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and
the development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective
occupations.
   LICENSEE. An organization which has been issued a license to operate a
raffle.
   NET PROCEEDS. The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, license fees as provided in this chapter,
and other reasonable operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a
raffle.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization or institution organized and
conducted on a not-for-profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone
as a result of the operation.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, organization, public, or private corporation,
government, partnership, or unincorporated association.
   PINS. The number of individuals permitted to participate in any raffle
event. For a Class C 54 week raffle license, only individuals who have obtained
a pin may purchase chances for the raffle event. The number of pins for any
given raffle event will be determined on a case-by-case basis by the Raffle
Administrator through a defined process stated herein.
   RAFFLE. A form of lottery, as defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-2(b).
conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
      (1)   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance.
      (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
   RAFFLE ADMINISTRATOR(S). The City Administrator or the City Administrator's
designee.
   RAFFLE EVENT. An event at which at least one raffle is conducted by an
organization that holds a raffle license issued under this Code.
   RAFFLE EVENT LIMITATION. The aggregate retail value of all prizes,
merchandise, or cash payouts that may be awarded by a licensee in connection
with a single raffle event.
   RAFFLE LICENSE APPLICATION. City license application that must be submitted
and approved prior to obtaining a license for a raffle event within city.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, congregation, society, or organization
founded for the purpose of religious worship.
   VETERANS ORGANIZATION. An organization or association comprised of members
of which substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows,
or widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare
of its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as
to confer a public benefit.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.12 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Class A: general raffle license. A Class A raffle license shall permit
an organization the ability to conduct a raffle that may include multiple
drawings to award prizes, but all drawings must occur on the same day and at
the same location and within the confines of the same raffle event. The
following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and chances in
connection with any Class A raffle event conducted within the city:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
      (2)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $25,000 unless special City Council permission
is obtained.
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed $100.
      (4)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 180 consecutive days.
      (5)   No raffle tickets shall be sold on city-owned property without
special City Council approval to do so.
   (B)   Class B: financial hardship raffle license. A Class B raffle license
allows a not-for-profit fundraising organization or group, organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial hardship assistance to an identified
individual or group of individuals suffering severe financial hardship as a
result of an injury, disability, accident, or disaster, to conduct one raffle
event for that purpose. The following limitations shall apply as to prizes,
merchandise and chances in connection with any Class B raffle event conducted
within the city:
      (1)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by
a licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed $50,000.
      (2)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $25,000 unless special City Council permission
is obtained.
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed $100.
      (4)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 180 consecutive days.
      (5)   No raffle tickets shall be sold on city-owned property without
special City Council approval to do so.
   (C)   Class C: 54 week raffle license. A Class C 54 week raffle license
permits an organization to regularly conduct raffles as defined herein within a
maximum of 54 consecutive calendar weeks. Such license shall permit no more
than 54 raffle events, and the raffle event must conclude no later than week
54. The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and chances
in connection with any Class C raffle event conducted within the city:
      (1)   The maximum number of pins permitted for a Class C 54 week raffle
license shall not exceed 5,000.
      (2)   For raffle events with 2,000 pins or less, the aggregate retail
value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a licensee in connection with a
single raffle event shall not exceed $500,000.
      (3)   For raffle events with 2,001 - 5,000 pins, the aggregate retail
value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a licensee in connection with a
single raffle event shall not exceed $1,000,000.
      (4)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold shall not exceed $100.
      (5)   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed 54 consecutive calendar weeks.
      (6)   No raffle tickets shall be sold on city-owned property without
special City Council approval to do so.
      (7)   No raffle tickets shall be sold in any location other than the
location where the drawing(s) for the raffle event(s) or conclusion of the
raffle event(s) will take place according to the raffle license.
      (8)   A Class C 54 week raffle license with 2,000 pins or less shall
require a raffle license application, and may be issued by the Raffle
Administrator.
      (9)   A Class C 54 week raffle license with 2,001 - 5,000 pins shall
require a raffle license application, which must be approved by City Council.
      (10)   The maximum number of pins permitted for a Class C 54 week raffle
license with 2,001 - 5,000 pins will be determined by the Raffle Administrator
and recommended to City Council for approval according to an approved raffle
license application.
      (11)   A determination of how many pins may be permitted by the Raffle
Administrator for any raffle event may be based in part on how many vehicles
can be safely parked at the location of the raffle event, as well as other
health and safety factors to be considered by the Raffle Administrator.
      (12)   No licensee has any property right to any license issued by city,
and all Class C 54 week raffle licenses expire at the end of the raffle event,
or on week 54 of the license, whichever occurs first.
      (13)   There are no automatic Class C 54 week raffle license renewals,
and city reserves the right to refuse to renew a Class C 54 week raffle
license.
      (14)   For Class C 54 week raffle events, "roll-over" proceeds from a
raffle event are permitted according to the rules of licensee's raffle event.
      (15)   A copy of the rules of licensee's raffle event is required to
filed with the 54 week raffle license application.
      (16)   For raffle events with 2,000 pins or less, as long as no
information on the raffle license application changes in any way, and with
consent of the Raffle Administrator:
         (a)   Licensee shall have five days to renew an expired Class C 54
week raffle license. If licensee fails to renew the expired Class C 54 week
raffle license within five days, this division (C)(16) of this section is
inapplicable, and licensee will be required to submit a new raffle license
application for consideration by the Raffle Administrator.
         (b)   During the five day interim between the expiration of licensee's
Class C 54 week raffle license and the anticipated renewal of licensee's Class
C 54 week raffle license, licensee may sell raffle event tickets for the
anticipated next raffle event.
         (c)   Raffle Administrator may refuse to allow renewal of Class C 54
week raffle licenses based on health, safety, economic welfare and/or general
welfare of city.
         (d)   If for any reason licensee's Class C 54 week raffle license is
not renewed, city bears no responsibility for any raffle event proceeds, and it
will be licensee's sole responsibility to return said proceeds as licensee sees
fit.
         (e)   Licensee shall be responsible for showing proof of a fidelity
bond in the amount of $5,000 and paying a license fee to city for each Class C
54 week raffle license obtained.
      (17)   A Class C 54 week raffle license fee shall be $100.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.13 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle, or to
sell, offer for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a chance
on a raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by city and in
accordance with the provisions of this Code. Only city residents, city
businesses, or city organizations located within city limits shall be
considered for any city raffle license. Such license, when issued, is effective
for all areas within the city. Such license is not effective outside the city.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 RAFFLE LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application
therefore with the Raffle Administrator(s) on forms provided by city. Pursuant
to the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, such application shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The name, address, and type of organization;
   (B)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated, the
date and state of incorporation;
   (C)   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
   (D)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle;
   (E)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
   (F)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
   (G)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
   (H)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
   (I)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
   (J)   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
   (K)   A sworn statement attesting to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization, signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
   (L)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct;
   (M)   A fidelity bond in the amount of $5,000;
   (N)   Purpose for which net proceeds will be used of each raffle; and
   (O)   A copy of the rules of licensee's raffle event.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.15 RESPONSIBILITY FOR TRAFFIC AND PARKING.
   (A)   A traffic and parking plan shall be submitted with each raffle license
application. The Raffle Administrator and/or the City Council reserve the right
to deny, revoke or suspend any raffle license in the event that the safe
conditions of city streets, sidewalks, public property and public rights-of-way
is determined to have been compromised.
   (B)   It is the sole responsibility of the licensee to engage the city in
regard to any extra anticipated needs regarding traffic and/or parking issues
due to a raffle event. Regular enforcement of traffic laws and parking
regulations will be strictly enforced, and it is the primary policy of the city
to maintain safe conditions on city streets and sidewalks near and around any
raffle event. Licensees are strongly encouraged to engage the City
Administrator and Chief of Police prior to a raffle event to convey concerns
and/or coordinate any special service needs to maintain public safety. The city
is under no obligation to provide those extra services. The provision of those
extra services may, however, be provided to the licensee or organization at
cost payable by the licensee or organization to the city.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.16 LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS.
   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans' organization that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five years immediately before making application for a license
and which have had, during that entire five-year period, a bona fide membership
engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to a nonprofit fundraising
organization that the City Council determines, in each specific case, is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident, or disaster. The
following are ineligible for any raffle license:
   (A)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (B)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   (C)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (A) or (B) of
this section has a proprietary, equitable, or credit interest or in which such
person is active or employed;
   (D)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (A) or (B) of
this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or not;
and
   (E)   Any organization in which a person defined in division (A) or (B) of
this section is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle as
defined in this section.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.17 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   A raffle license shall contain the following:
      (1)   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      (2)   The period of time during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
      (3)   The date, time, and location on or at which the winning chances
will be determined.
   (B)   Such license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location
of the determination of the winning chances.
   (C)   A license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this Code.
   (D)   The Raffle Administrator shall receive all raffle license
applications.
   (E)   Class A and Class B raffle licenses shall be valid for a period up to
and including 180 days from and after issuance, and may be issued by the Raffle
Administrator.
   (F)   In no event shall a Class C license be authorized for a period longer
than 54 weeks.
   (G)   Raffle Administrator must approve all raffle license applications for
all Class C 54 week raffle licenses with 2,000 or less pins.
   (H)   City Council must approve all raffle license applications for all
Class C 54 week raffle licenses with 2,001 - 5,000 pins within 30 days of being
deemed completed by the Raffle Administrator at a regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.18 LIMITATION ON CLASS C LICENSES.
   It shall be at the discretion of the Raffle Administrator and/or the City
Council to determine the number of Class C 54 week raffle permits issued during
any 54-week period. Under no circumstances shall more than one Class C 54 week
raffle drawing occur on any given calendar day.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.19 LICENSING FEES.
   (A)   Class A: general raffle license. A license fee of $50 shall be payable
to "City of Troy" upon application for a Class A license.
   (B)   Class B: financial hardship raffle license. A license fee of $5 shall
be payable to "City of Troy" upon application for a Class B license.
   (C)   Class C: 54 week raffle license. A license fee of $100 shall be
payable to "City of Troy" upon application for a Class C 54 week raffle
license.
   (D)   When an application for a raffle license is filed, such application
fee is nonrefundable, even if the application is denied or in the event the
raffle is cancelled for any reason. Each raffle license expires when each
raffle event has concluded, and a new license fee will be required for
subsequent raffle event applications.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.20 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate
in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises in which to determine the winning
chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under this
section.
   (E)   A licensee may determine the winning chances in a raffle only at the
location specified on the raffle license.
   (F)   A licensee may not determine the winning chances in a raffle at any
location other than the location that has been approved by the Raffle
Administrator and/or City Council.
   (G)   Class C 54 week raffle license chances may be sold, offered for sale,
conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value only within the area
specified on the license and where the winning chances for the raffle event(s)
or conclusion of the raffle event(s) may be determined.
   (H)   Class C 54 week raffle license chances may not be sold, offered for
sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value at any location
other than the location where the winning chances for the raffle event(s) may
be determined or the conclusion of the raffle event(s) may be determined, and
the location that has been approved by the Raffle Administrator and/or City
Council.
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (J)   Where a Class C 54 week raffle license with 2,000 pins or less has
been issued, the aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single
raffle shall not exceed $500,000 and the retail value of any one prize awarded
in a single raffle shall not exceed $500,000.
   (K)   Where a Class C 54 week raffle license with 2,001 - 5,000 pins has
been issued, the aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single
raffle shall not exceed $1,500 and the retail value of any one prize awarded in
a single raffle shall not exceed $1,500.
   (L)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall
not exceed $100.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.21 RAFFLES MANAGER; FIDELITY BOND.
   The operation and conduct of a raffle shall be under the supervision of at
least one raffle manager designated by the licensee. As a condition of
obtaining a city raffle license, the following shall be required:
   (A)   The manager(s) shall give a fidelity bond in the amount of $5,000 and
the bond shall be conditioned upon honesty in the performance of his or her
duties. The terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the city not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.22 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, a
list of names of prize winners, and net proceeds for each raffle event at which
winning chances are determined. All deductions or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
   (B)   Each licensee shall file its records and report with the City Clerk
within 30 days following the conclusion of the raffle.
   (C)   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
therefore issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois, and
placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its
raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for the
other revenues of the licensee.
   (D)   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the city its gross
receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the raffle and the distribution of
net proceeds itemized as required herein. If a license is valid for more than
30 days, the report shall be made monthly.
   (E)   Raffle records shall be preserved by each licensee for three years,
and organizations shall make their records available relating to the operation
of raffles for public inspection at the reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Licensee shall indemnify and hold harmless city, its agents, officers and
employees against all injuries, deaths, losses, damages, claims, suits,
liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses (including any liabilities,
judgments, costs and expenses and reasonable attorney's fees which may arise
directly or indirectly from licensee's raffle and/or raffle event within city.
Licensee understands and agrees that in no way does a raffle license issued by
city create any liability of any kind for city regarding licensee's raffle and/
or raffle event within city. Licensee shall, at its own cost and expense,
appear, defend and pay all charges of attorneys, costs and other expenses
arising therefrom or incurred in connection therewith with licensee's raffle
and/or raffle event. If any judgment shall be rendered against city, its
agents, officers, officials or employees in any such action, licensee shall, at
its own expense, satisfy and discharge the same.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this Code shall constitute
a violation, and any person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than $100 or more than $750 for each offense. Each day in which a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 6-17-2019)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Adult Entertainment Generally
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Minors
   
114.03   Sexually explicit performances prohibited
Theaters and Mini-Theaters
   
114.15   License required
   
114.16   Application fee
   
114.17   Requirements for license
   
114.18   Fire safety requirements
   
114.19   Restroom-toilet facilities
   
114.20   Presence of employees required
   
114.21   Inspections
   
114.22   Grounds for revocation of license
Adult Bookstores
   
114.35   License required
   
114.36   Application fee
   
114.37   Requirements for license
   
114.38   Inspections
   
114.39   Grounds for revocation of license
Licensing Generally
   
114.50   Community impact statement–required
   
114.51   Same–content
   
114.52   Filing of license application and community impact statement
   
114.53   Review and decision making process
   
114.54   Duration
   
114.55   Changes in use
   
114.56   Nontransferable
   
114.57   Posting
   
114.58   Procedures for revocation
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37
   Massage establishments, see
Ch. 115
Statutory reference:
   Power of city to license, tax and regulate amusements generally, see ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-42-1, 11-42-5
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT GENERALLY
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases are defined for the purpose of their use in
this chapter. These definitions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter unless otherwise specifically stated.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A business which:
      (1)   Has as the principal activity the sale or rental of books,
magazines, newspapers, movies, videotapes, film strips or any combination
thereof which are characterized by an emphasis on portrayals and/or written
descriptions of human genitals and pubic regions or an emphasis on portrayals
and/or written descriptions of acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, analingus, bestiality, cunnilingus, coprophilia, fellatio,
flagellation, frottage, urologina or similar acts; or
      (2)   Such a business which has a principal activity involving the sale
or rental of books, magazines, newspapers, movies, videotapes, film strips or
any combination thereof which are characterized by an emphasis on portrayals
and/or written descriptions of human genitals and pubic regions or an emphasis
on portrayals and/or written descriptions or acts of masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, analingus, bestiality, cunnilingus, coprophilia, fellatio,
flagellation, frottage, urologina or similar acts when that business is
combined with any other adult entertainment business service or activity on the
business premises.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BOOKING AGENCY. A business engaged in for financial
remuneration, either directly or indirectly, wherein the owner, operator or
agent books performances for dancers, comedians, musicians, entertainers or
burlesque performers, taking a fee, commission or percentage of any money from
the patron or performer for services rendered, when the performer performs in
the nude or in a state of partial nudity, or engages in acts of masturbation,
sexual intercourse, sodomy, analingus, bestiality, cunnilingus, coprophilia,
fellatio, flagellation, frottage, urologina, combinations thereof or similar
acts as part of a performance; or a similar operation.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. A business which offers one or more of the
following services or activities: adult bookstore, adult theater, adult mini-
theater, massage parlor, massage school, dating service, escort service, adult
entertainment booking agency or similar operations.
   ADULT MINI-THEATER. A business in which movies, videotapes or film strips
are shown for observation by persons in individual viewing booths, when the
content of the materials present is characterized by an emphasis on portrayals
of masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, analingus, bestiality,
cunnilingus, coprophilia, fellatio, flagellation, frottage, urologina or
similar acts.
   ADULT THEATER. A business in which movies, videotapes, film strips, live
stage shows, dancing, singing or other live performances or combinations
thereof are given, when:
      (1)   The movies, videotapes or film strips shown are characterized by an
emphasis on portrayals of masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, analingus,
bestiality, cunnilingus, coprophilia, fellatio, flagellation, frottage,
urologina, combinations thereof or similar acts; or
      (2)   A live performance contains persons who perform in the nude or in a
state of partial nudity, or which involves portrayals of masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, analingus, bestiality, cunnilingus, coprophilia, fellatio,
flagellation, frottage, urologina, combinations thereof or similar acts.
   ANALINGUS. Erotic stimulation, whether actual or simulated, achieved by
contact between mouth or tongue and the anus.
   AUDIENCE ROOM. The portion of any adult theater in which movies or
videotapes are actually shown, or stage shows, dancing, singing or other
performances or combinations thereof are given.
   BESTIALITY. Sexual contact of any variety, whether actual or simulated,
between a human and an animal.
   COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT. A statement required of any adult entertainment
business required to be submitted in conjunction with an application for a
license to operate any business within the definition of an adult entertainment
business, for consideration by the City Council in determining whether or not
to license the adult entertainment business.
   COPROPHILIA. The use of feces for sexual arousal or gratification, whether
actual or simulated.
   CUNNILINGUS. Erotic stimulation, whether actual or simulated, of the vulva
or clitoris with the lips or tongue.
   DATING SERVICE. A business engaged in for financial remuneration, either
directly or indirectly, where the operator arranges to match a person of the
same or opposite sex to a patron or patrons, for social or entertainment
purposes, either on or off the premises of the dating services; or a similar
operation.
   ESCORT SERVICE. A business engaged in for financial remuneration, either
directly or indirectly, where a person arranges for the companionship of the
same or opposite sex for a patron or patrons for social or entertainment
purposes, either on or off the premises of the escort service; or a similar
operation.
   FELLATIO. The practice of obtaining sexual arousal or gratification, whether
actual or simulated, by stimulation of the penis with the mouth and/or tongue.
   FLAGELLATION. An act or instance of obtaining sexual arousal or
gratification by beating, flogging or scourging another or being the recipient
of the action, whether actual or simulated.
   FROTTAGE. Masturbation by rubbing against another person.
   LICENSE. An official permit from the city to allow an activity or activities
as may be required by this chapter.
   MASSAGE. The performance of manipulative exercises upon the human body of
another by rubbing, kneading, stroking or tapping with the hand or hands, or
with any mechanical or bathing device, with or without supplementary aids.
   MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place or establishment where massage is made available.
   MASSAGE SCHOOL. Any place or establishment or facility which provides
instruction in the theory, method and practice of massage.
   MASTURBATION. Erotic activity, whether actual or simulated, involving the
genital organs commonly resulting in orgasm and achieved by manual or other
bodily contact exclusive of sexual intercourse or by instrumental manipulation,
whether performed by the person receiving sexual arousal or gratification or by
another.
   NUDITY. The practice of going naked, the state of being unclothed, whether
partial or total.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who engages in the practice of or performs a massage.
   PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE. Copulation between a male and female person, either
actual or simulated.
   SODOMY. Penetration, whether actual or simulated, of the male organ or any
instrument into the anus of another person for the purpose of sexual arousal or
gratification.
   UROLOGINA. Any act of sexual arousal or gratification, whether actual or
simulated, associated with urine or urination.
(1986 Code, § 5-36) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.02 MINORS.
   (A)   Employment. No person under the age of 18 shall be employed by an
adult entertainment business, nor shall a person under the age of 18 be
contracted with by an adult entertainment business for the provision of
services to patrons.
   (B)   Sales. No person under the age of 18 shall be sold or provided with
any goods, merchandise or services by any adult entertainment business or by
the employees of any adult entertainment business.
   (C)   On premises. No person under the age of 18 shall be allowed to be on
the premises of any adult entertainment business licensed or required to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (D)   Posting. The prohibitions of this section shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the business premises.
   (E)   Grounds for criminal prosecution, revocation.  A violation of any of
the divisions of this section shall be grounds for criminal prosecution of the
underage person, and of any licensee, owner, operator and employees who
permitted the violation of the section by the underage person. A violation of
this section shall also constitute a grounds for revocation of any license
granted under this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-37) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 SEXUALLY EXPLICIT PERFORMANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any obscene act as
defined by state law or to dance, entertain, display or otherwise engage in any
exhibition or performance in such a manner as to expose to the view of any
person within an adult entertainment business, or in any other commercial
establishment:
      (1)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region;
      (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region; or
      (3)   Any portion of the female breasts at or below the areola thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any of the following
acts at any adult entertainment business or any establishment licensed or
required to be licensed under this subchapter:
      (1)   Analingus;
      (2)   Bestiality;
      (3)   Coprophilia;
      (4)   Cunnilingus;
      (5)   Fellatio;
      (6)   Flagellation;
      (7)   Frottage;
      (8)   Masturbation;
      (9)   Sexual intercourse;
      (10)   Sodomy; or
      (11)   Urologina.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly promote the
commission of any of the unlawful acts listed in divisions (A) and (B) above.
(1986 Code, § 5-38) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
THEATERS AND MINI-THEATERS
§ 114.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult theater, or adult
mini-theater within the city without first obtaining a license from the City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 5-51) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16 APPLICATION FEE.
   The City Council shall charge an application fee for an adult theater or an
adult mini-theater license which shall be nonrefundable, and may in addition
require the license applicant to reimburse the city for the reasonable actual
costs of conducting any inspections or of verifying any of the information
submitted by the applicant which may be required to assure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter as a condition of considering the license
application. The amount of the license application fee shall be set by
resolution of the City Council, and may be changed from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 5-52) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.17 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE.
   The person making application for a license to operate an adult theater or
adult mini-theater shall, prior to being granted the license, obtain and
present for the consideration of the City Council:
   (A)   A community impact statement as described herein;
   (B)   A certificate signed by a city building inspector showing compliance
with all provisions of the zoning ordinance, Building Code, Electrical Code and
Plumbing Code of the city;
   (C)   A certificate from the Fire Marshal showing compliance with fire
safety requirements of this chapter and state law;
   (D)   A certificate from the City Clerk showing compliance with the
provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   The name and residence of each applicant shall be supplied. If the
applicant is a corporation, the names and residences of all the directors,
officers and shareholders owning a 10% interest or more therein, either
directly or beneficially, shall be given. If the applicant is a partnership,
the names and residences of each partner shall be given; and
   (F)   A certificate from the Chief of Police that neither the applicant, the
operator or operators or the employees, have been convicted of any felony, the
offense of prostitution, failure to obey the lawful command of a police
officer, indecent exposure, soliciting for immoral purposes, criminal sexual
conduct, or a violation of any criminal obscenity statute or ordinance within
the eight years prior to the date of the license application.
(1986 Code, § 5-53) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.18 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   Compliance with the following fire safety requirements shall be met and
certified by the Fire Chief prior to any adult theater or adult mini-theater
license being granted under this subchapter.
   (A)   Separate buildings. An adult theater or adult mini-theater shall be
contained in a separate, self-enclosed building unless approved firewalls are
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the City Building Code to
completely insulate all portions of the adult theater or adult mini-theater
building from fire hazards presented by a connecting structure. In no case
shall an adult theater or adult mini-theater be located on the same premises as
any retail or wholesale establishment where books, magazines, newspapers, or
other inflammable materials are stored or exhibited for sale to the public, nor
shall an adult theater, or adult mini-theater be located on the same premises
as any apartment, residence, house, hotel, motel, motor court or other place
used for human habitation, unless the firewalls required by this section are
constructed.
   (B)   Smoking. Smoking shall be prohibited within any adult mini-theater or
within the audience room of any adult theater. The prohibition on smoking shall
be designated by the posting of not less than two signs within the lobby of the
adult theater or adult mini-theater.
   (C)   Exits. Not less than three clearly marked outward-opening exits shall
be provided from an adult theater or adult mini-theater. The exits shall be
designated by an illuminated sign over each exit. The entrance to the adult
theater or adult mini-theater may count as one exit. In any adult theater, two
of the exits shall open directly from the audience room to the outside. All
exits shall be unlocked and openable from the inside during all business hours.
   (D)   Fire extinguishers.  Not less than three fire extinguishers of a type
approved for commercial use within this state shall be required to be on the
premises of an adult theater or adult mini-theater and in operable conditions
at all times. No less than two of the required fire extinguishers shall be
contained within the audience room of any adult theater. No less than one fire
extinguisher shall be stored in the lobby of any adult theater or adult mini-
theater. All fire extinguishers shall be stored at a height and in a manner
which makes them readily accessible for use in the event of fire. The location
of all fire extinguishers shall be designated by means of clearly illuminated
signs. Fire extinguishers shall be maintained in operable condition at all
times, and tags and/or certificates showing that a fire extinguisher has been
tested and is in operable condition shall be attached to each fire extinguisher
at all times. Each fire extinguisher shall be required to be drained and
refilled every six months. Any certificate or tag attached to the fire
extinguisher must designate the date on which the fire extinguisher was last
filled and checked to ensure operability, and shall contain in legible form the
name and address of the person or entity which filled and checked the fire
extinguisher.
   (E)   Requirements of state law, Building Code. Nothing herein shall repeal
any requirement of state law or the City Building Code as they shall relate to
fire safety within structures comparable to an adult theater or adult mini-
theater, and the provisions of state law and the City Building Code shall
prevail over this chapter to the extent that they impose any requirement for
fire safety in the structures more strict or restrictive than those imposed by
this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-54) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.19 RESTROOM-TOILET FACILITIES.
   Separate, approved restroom-toilet facilities shall be provided for men and
women which meet all requirements of the Illinois Plumbing Code and the
barrier-free design code. Each restroom facility shall be marked at all times
by illuminated signs designated “men” and “women.” All restroom-toilet
facilities shall be directly accessible to the adult theater audience room, or
area in an adult mini-theater where movies, videotapes or film strips are
shown, and patrons shall not be required to leave an enclosure and go to the
outside of any building in order to have access to any restroom-toilet
facility.
(1986 Code, § 5-55) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.20 PRESENCE OF EMPLOYEES REQUIRED.
   No adult theater or adult mini-theater shall be operated at any time unless
at least two employees are then present on the premises and working. At least
one of the employees in an adult theater shall be an usher, and shall be
designated as such by uniform or otherwise. No performer, dancer, singer,
entertainer or waitress shall count toward the required total of two employees
under this section.
(1986 Code, § 5-56) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.21 INSPECTIONS.
   Any adult theater or adult mini-theater licensed or required to be licensed
under this subchapter shall be open to inspection by the building inspectors,
Fire Marshal or the Police Department, at any time, to assure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-57) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.22 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted herein may be revoked under §
114.58 for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   A finding that the business, as operated, has an adverse impact upon
the community;
   (B)   A violation of any of the standards or requirements set forth herein;
   (C)   A violation of the city zoning ordinance, Building Code, Plumbing Code
or Electrical Code; or
   (D)   When any owner, operator or employee of an adult theater, or adult
mini-theater is convicted of a violation of this chapter or of the state law
relating to the types of offenses enumerated in this section, or of any other
similar sexual offense occurring while on the business premises.
(1986 Code, § 5-58) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
ADULT BOOKSTORES
§ 114.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult bookstore within the
city without first obtaining a license from the city.
(1986 Code, § 5-81) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.36 APPLICATION FEE.
   The City Council shall charge an application fee for an adult bookstore
license which shall be nonrefundable, and may in addition require an adult
bookstore license applicant to reimburse the city for the reasonable actual
costs of conducting any inspections or verifying any of the information
submitted by the applicant which may be required to assure compliance with the
provisions of this chapter as a condition of considering the application. The
amount of the license application fee shall be set by resolution of the City
Council, and may be changed from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
(1986 Code, § 5-82) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.37 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE.
   A person making application for a license to operate an adult bookstore
shall, prior to being granted the license, obtain and present for the
consideration of the City Council:
   (A)   A community impact statement as described herein;
   (B)   A certificate signed by a city building inspector showing compliance
with all provisions of the zoning ordinance, Building Code, Electrical Code and
Plumbing Code of the city;
   (C)   The name and residence of each applicant. If the applicant is a
corporation, the names and residences of all the directors, officers and
shareholders owning a 10% interest or more therein, either directly or
beneficially, shall be given. If the applicant is a partnership, the names and
residences of each partner shall be given;
   (D)   The name and residence of each employee; and
   (E)   A certificate from the Chief of Police verifying that neither the
applicant, or the employees, have been convicted of any felony, the offense of
prostitution, failure to obey the lawful command of a police officer, indecent
exposure, soliciting for immoral purposes, criminal sexual conduct or a
violation of any criminal obscenity statute or ordinance within the eight years
prior to the date of the license application. If the applicant is a
corporation, the certificates shall be supplied for the directors, officers and
shareholders having a 10% or more interest in the applicant, either directly or
beneficially.
(1986 Code, § 5-83) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.38 INSPECTIONS.
   Any adult bookstore licensed or required to be licensed under this
subchapter shall be open to inspection by the building inspectors, Fire Marshal
or the Police Department at any time to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-84) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.39 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted to an adult bookstore may be revoked under §
114.58 for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   A finding that the business, as operated, has an adverse impact upon
the community;
   (B)   The conviction of the licensee or an employee of a criminal obscenity
charge under the law of the state arising from the sale or possession of
obscene materials through or at the licensed premises;
   (C)   A violation of any of the standards or requirements set forth in this
chapter;
   (D)   A violation of the city zoning ordinance, Building Code, Plumbing Code
or Electrical Code; or
   (E)   When any owner or employee of an adult bookstore is convicted of a
violation of this chapter or of state law relating to the types of offenses
enumerated in § 113.03, or any other similar sexual offense occurring while on
the licensed premises.
(1986 Code, § 5-85) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
LICENSING GENERALLY
§ 114.50 COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT–REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued to any proposed adult entertainment business
until the license applicant has prepared and submitted to the City Council a
community impact statement.
(1986 Code, § 5-96) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.51 SAME—CONTENT.
   A community impact statement shall contain, at a minimum, the following
elements.
   (A)   Description of business. A detailed description of the proposed
business, including the names and addresses of the applicant for the license,
the street address and legal description of the proposed business location, a
description of the building and facilities, a description of the merchandise
and services to be offered to the public, a statement of the proposed hours of
operation, a profile of the expected customers, a projection of the market
area, and a list of similar operations for comparison purposes in the southern
Illinois area.
   (B)   Analysis of existing business community. A detailed analysis of the
existing business community within 500 feet of the proposed location, including
the following information:
      (1)   The name of all other businesses within 500 feet of the proposed
location;
      (2)   A description of the type of business within the limits;
      (3)   A profile of the customers or patrons of the businesses within the
limits;
      (4)   A profile of the market area of the other businesses;
      (5)   A description of the trend of economic growth and/or deterioration
of the existing business community within the limits; and
      (6)   A signed statement from a qualified property appraiser registered
with the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers or the Society of Real
Estate Appraisers as to the projected impact of the adult entertainment
business on commercial property values within 500 feet of the proposed
location.
   (C)   Analysis of existing residential community. A detailed analysis of the
existing residential community within 1,000 feet of the proposed location,
including the following information:
      (1)   A description of the type of residential housing within 1,000 feet
of the proposed location;
      (2)   A demographic analysis of the persons living within 1,000 feet of
the proposed location, including an analysis of the ages, occupations and
attitudes of persons living within the area toward the proposed location of the
adult entertainment business;
      (3)   A statement as to the proximity of schools, churches, public
facilities, rest homes, convalescent homes and licensed foster care facilities,
and an analysis of the impact of the proposed use upon those uses;
      (4)   An analysis of the impact of the proposed business upon the social
environment of the city; and
      (5)   A signed statement from a qualified property appraiser registered
with the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers or the Society of Real
Estate Appraisers as to the projected impact of the adult entertainment
business on residential property values within 1,000 feet of the proposed
location.
   (D)   Zoning analysis. A detailed analysis of the zoning within 500 feet of
the proposed location with an analysis of the impact of the proposed use on
existing and projected principal permitted uses and existing and projected
permitted uses subject to special conditions within those limits, including:
      (1)   A list of alternative locations for the proposed business; and
      (2)   A list of alternative uses at the proposed location.
   (E)   Additional requirements. The community impact statement shall also
contain:
      (1)   A detailed statement setting forth the statistical procedures and
methods used to compile and prepare the community impact statement; and
      (2)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the person or persons
who prepared the community impact statement.
(1986 Code, § 5-97) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.52 FILING OF LICENSE APPLICATION AND COMMUNITY IMPACT STATEMENT.
   A completed adult entertainment license application and a completed
community impact statement shall be filed by the applicant simultaneously at
the office of the City Clerk. Copies of the license application and the
community impact statement shall be distributed by the Clerk to all Council
members, the Mayor, the Director of Public Works, the Fire Marshal, the Chief
of Police and to any other parties requesting the documents. The City Clerk may
assess a charge for the reasonable actual copying cost of any statement issued
to persons requesting the documents.
(1986 Code, § 5-98) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.53 REVIEW AND DECISION MAKING PROCESS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of the date when the community impact statement and
license application is filed with the City Clerk, the City Council shall hold a
public hearing for the purposes of considering the community impact statement.
The public hearing shall be known as a “step one” hearing. The applicant,
members of the public, the Chief of Police or his or her designate, the Fire
Marshal or his or her designate, the building inspectors or other concerned
persons may present evidence or statements to the Council in favor of the
impact of the adult entertainment business on the community, or to indicate
that the adult entertainment business will have a significant adverse impact
upon the community. At the close of the public hearing, the Council shall:
      (1)   Deny the advancement of the application to step two on the grounds
that the proposed adult entertainment business will have a significant adverse
impact upon the community;
      (2)   Deny the advancement of the application to step two on the grounds
that the community impact statement is deficient. If the Council determines
that the community impact statement is deficient, the Council shall indicate
the nature of the deficiencies to the applicant; or
      (3)   Adopt a resolution accepting the community impact statement and
advancing the application to step two of the licensing process.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the date when a community impact statement is
approved, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider the adult
entertainment business license. This public hearing shall be known as a “step
two” hearing. The applicant, members of the public, the Chief of Police or his
or her designate, the Fire Marshal or his or her designate, the building
inspectors or other concerned persons may present evidence or statements to the
Council in favor of the license application or in opposition to the license
application. At the close of the public hearing, the Council shall:
      (1)   Take action to approve the license application; or
      (2)   Take action to deny the license application.
(1986 Code, § 5-99) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.54 DURATION.
   Any license for an adult entertainment business shall be valid for a period
of three years, unless previously revoked by the City Council pursuant to §
114.58 or unless the license is terminated when an ownership interest in the
adult entertainment business is transferred prior to the expiration of the
three-year period. At the end of the three-year period, a licensee who desires
to renew a license shall be required to file a new community impact statement
and license application, and to follow the procedures set forth in this chapter
for action by the City Council on a license application.
(1986 Code, § 5-100) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.55 CHANGES IN USE.
   When a change in an existing licensed adult entertainment business is
proposed by adding or altering adult entertainment business services previously
available to patrons, a new community impact statement and license application
shall be required. Any change in use shall not be made unless and until final
action is taken by the City Council granting the license application for the
changed use.
(1986 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.56 NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Any license granted to an adult entertainment business shall be
nontransferable. The transferee of any ownership interest in an adult
entertainment business shall be required to make a new application for a
license, and shall be required to prepare and submit a new community impact
statement.
(1986 Code, § 5-102) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.57 POSTING.
   Any licenses granted to an adult entertainment business shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the business premises.
(1986 Code, § 5-103) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 114.58 PROCEDURES FOR REVOCATION.
   A license shall not be revoked unless a licensee is given an opportunity for
a public hearing as set forth in this section. The steps to be followed to
determine a license revocation case shall be as follows:
   (A)   Revocation may be requested:
      (1)   By the Fire Marshal, the Chief of Police, or the building
inspectors, on their own initiative; or
      (2)   At the request of any person, when the request is recommended by
the Mayor for the consideration of the City Council.
   (B)   The licensee shall be given notice of the intent to request
revocation, which shall contain an itemized, reasonably detailed statement of
the reasons for which revocation is requested, and shall contain the names of
the person or persons making the complaint request against the licensee and the
name or names of the person or persons requesting revocation.
   (C)   Notice of the revocation request, including notice of a date and time
set for a hearing before the City Council, shall be sent by certified mail to
the licensee at the licensee’s address as recorded in the original of the
license application, on file with the City Clerk. Notice shall also be posted
at the place of business of the licensee within the city.
   (D)   A public hearing shall be held before the City Council, at a regular
or special meeting of the City Council within 20 but not less than ten days of
notice of the revocation proceedings having been served on the licensee. A
licensee shall be given the opportunity to present witnesses, to be presented
by an attorney or other agent, and to otherwise present the licensee’s case
against revocation.
   (E)   Following the public hearing, the City Council shall render its
written decision within three days, granting or denying the revocation request,
and stating the reasons therefor. All decisions of the City Council shall be
final.
   (F)   The institution of a license revocation procedure shall not act as a
bar to any criminal prosecutions for the violation of state law or the
provisions of this chapter or any other code provision, nor shall it bar any
civil actions to enjoin or abate any nuisance under this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-104) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
CHAPTER 115: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Application fee
   
115.03   Requirements for license
   
115.04   Standards for premises
   
115.05   Sanitation standards, employees, operators and patrons
   
115.06   Inspections
   
115.07   Sexual acts prohibited
   
115.08   Grounds for revocation of license
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment, see
Ch. 114
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a massage parlor or
massage school within the city without first filing the community impact
statement required herein and without first obtaining a license from the city.
No person shall act as an operator or instructor in any massage parlor or
massage school unless the place or establishment in which he or she engages in
his or her practice is duly licensed as a massage parlor or massage school
under this article.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A duly licensed medical doctor, osteopath, chiropractor, nurse or
physical therapist;
      (2)   A person engaging in the practice of massage on his or her spouse
or relative within the first degree of consanguity in either of their
residences; or
      (3)   A place or establishment which is a duly licensed hospital,
dispensary, rest home or is a place or establishment where a massage upon the
face and neck only is performed for beautifying or cosmetic purposes.
   (C)   In any prosecution for violation of this section, the exemptions shall
constitute affirmative defenses and it shall be incumbent upon the defendant to
show that he or she or the place involved is not subject to the provisions of
this chapter. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to shift the burden of
proof of the violation to the defendant.
(1986 Code, § 5-66) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FEE.
   The City Council shall charge an application fee for a massage parlor or
massage school license which shall be nonrefundable, and may in addition
require a massage parlor or massage school license applicant to reimburse the
city for the reasonable actual costs of conducting any inspections or verifying
any of the information submitted by the applicant which may be required to
assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter as a condition of
considering the application. The amount of the license application fee shall be
set by resolution of the City Council, and may be changed from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 5-67) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 115.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An application for a license to operate a massage parlor or massage
school shall be made to the City Council.
   (B)   The license shall not be granted until the following requirements are
met:
      (1)   A community impact statement as described in
Chapter 114;
      (2)   The name and residence of each applicant. If the applicant is a
corporation, the names and residences of all the directors, officers and
shareholders owning a 10% interest or more therein, either directly or
indirectly or beneficially, shall be given. If the applicant is a partnership,
the names and residences of each partner shall be given;
      (3)   The name and residence of the operator or operators and of each
employee;
      (4)   Fingerprints of the operator or operators and of each employee
taken by the Police Department, or by the person designated by the Police
Department;
      (5)   Two recent photographs of the operator’s face, head and shoulders,
and of the face, head and shoulders of all employees. The photograph shall be
of a representable size and quality;
      (6)   Medical certificates signed by a physician, licensed to practice in
the state within seven days of the date of the application. The certificate
shall state that the operator or operators and all employees have been examined
by the certifying physician, and that the operator and all employees are free
of communicable diseases;
      (7)   A certificate signed by the Building Inspector showing that the
physical standards for a massage parlor or massage school set forth herein have
been met, and that the zoning ordinance, Building Code, Electrical Code,
Plumbing Code, and any other relevant standards of this chapter have been met;
and
      (8)   A certificate from the Chief of Police that neither the applicant,
the operator or operators or the employees have been convicted of any felony,
the offense of prostitution, failure to obey the lawful command of a police
officer, indecent exposure, soliciting for immoral purposes, criminal sexual
conduct, or a violation of any criminal obscenity statute or ordinance within
the eight years prior to the date of the license application.
(1986 Code, § 5-68) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 115.04 STANDARDS FOR PREMISES.
   Each massage parlor or massage school shall comply with the following
standards.
   (A)   All tables, tubs, shower stalls and floors (except reception and
administrative areas) shall be made of nonporous materials which may be readily
disinfected.
   (B)   Separate, closed containers shall be provided for wet towels and waste
materials.
   (C)   Separate toilet and lavatory facilities shall be supplied for male and
female patrons and personnel of the establishment. Each operating area shall be
equipped with a hand lavatory. No toilet and lavatory facility may be used in
conjunction with any other business, and the toilets and lavatories shall be
located so as to ensure privacy between the massage parlor or massage school
and any other business or use.
   (D)   All equipment, shower stalls, toilets, lavatories and any other such
accoutrements shall be regularly treated by disinfectants and shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times.
   (E)   No part of the quarters shall be used for or connected with any
bedroom or sleeping quarters. No person shall sleep in any massage parlor or
massage school.
(1986 Code, § 5-69) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 115.05 SANITATION STANDARDS, EMPLOYEES, OPERATORS AND PATRONS.
   Each massage parlor or massage school shall comply with the following
standards in providing services to patrons.
   (A)   No person shall be serviced who is infected with any fungus or any
other skin infection, nor shall any service be performed on a patron exhibiting
skin inflamation or eruptions.
   (B)   All personnel shall wash his or her hands in hot water with soap
before giving any service or treatment to each separate patron.
   (C)   All towels, tissues, sheets or other coverings shall be used
singularly for each patron and discarded for laundry or disposal immediately
after use.
   (D)   Nondisposable tools of the trade shall be disinfected after use upon
each patron.
(1986 Code, § 5-70) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 115.06 INSPECTIONS.
   Any massage parlor or massage school licensed under this chapter shall be
open to inspection by the building inspectors, Fire Marshal or the Police
Department, at any time, in order to assure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 5-71) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
§ 115.07 SEXUAL ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, employee or student of a
massage parlor or massage school to promote, offer or engage in any of the
following acts at any establishment licensed or required to be licensed under
this chapter:
   (A)   Nudity;
   (B)   Analingus;
   (C)   Bestiality;
   (D)   Cunnilingus;
   (E)   Coprophilia;
   (F)   Fellatio;
   (G)   Flagellation;
   (H)   Frottage;
   (I)   Masturbation;
   (J)   Sexual intercourse;
   (K)   Sodomy; or
   (L)   Urologina.
(1986 Code, § 5-72) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted herein may be revoked for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   A finding that the business, as operated, has an adverse impact upon
the community;
   (B)   A violation of any of the standards or requirements set forth in this
chapter;
   (C)   A violation of the city zoning ordinance, Building Code, Plumbing Code
or Electrical Code; or
   (D)   When any owner, operator or employee of a massage parlor or massage
school is convicted of a violation of this chapter or of state law relating to
the types of offenses enumerated in §
115.07, or any other similar sexual offense occurring while on the business
premises.
(1986 Code, § 5-73) (Ord. 1985-17, passed 6-17-1985)
CHAPTER 116: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
116.001   Definitions
   
116.002   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
116.003   Right of entry of Commissioner
   
116.004   Peddling alcoholic liquor prohibited
   
116.005   Restrictions on public consumption of alcohol
Licenses
   
116.015   License required
   
116.016   State license eligibility required
   
116.017   Classes of licenses established
   
116.018   (Reserved)
   
116.019   Limitation on number of licenses per person
   
116.020   Application; contents; accompanying documents; renewal, duty to
report changes
   
116.021   Examination of applicant; testimony; subpoenas
   
116.022   Waiting period prior to issuance
   
116.023   Fees
   
116.024   Disposition of fees
   
116.025   Units of local government
   
116.026   Term
   
116.027   Citizenship requirements
   
116.028   Residency requirement for liquor license applicants
   
116.029   General moral character of applicants for licenses and renewals
   
116.030   When applicant is a partnership
   
116.031   When applicant is a limited liability company
   
116.032   When applicant is a corporation
   
116.033   Manager or agent of premises to possess qualifications of licensee
   
116.034   Applicant to own premises or secure lease
   
116.035   Prohibition on city officials holding license
   
116.036   Sales in violation of license prohibited
   
116.037   Renewal
   
116.038   Effect of renewals on limitation on number of licenses
   
116.039   Nontransferability and the like
   
116.040   Change of location
   
116.041   Record of licenses
   
116.042   Location restrictions
   
116.043   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
116.044   Emergency closing
   
116.045   Vicarious liability
   
116.046   Complaint procedures
   
116.047   Hearing procedures
   
116.048   License revocation
   
116.049   Appeal procedures
Operations
   
116.060   Closing hours
   
116.061   Special hours for bowling alleys and commercial athletic facilities
   
116.062   Sanitation generally
   
116.063   Diseased employees
   
116.064   Access from licensed premises to dwelling quarters
   
116.065   View from street; interior lighting
   
116.066   On-premises violations
   
116.067   Civil rights violations
   
116.068   Display of license and warning signs
Minors
   
116.080   Possession; attempted purchases by minors
   
116.081   Attendance in bars, pouring drinks prohibited
   
116.082   Sales to minors and the like prohibited
   
116.083   Permitting minors in establishments prohibited; exceptions
   
116.084   Requirement to demand identification
   
116.085   Posting warning to minors
   
116.086   Parents and guardians not to permit violations
   
116.087   Permitting minor to possess or consume alcoholic beverage at a
private residence
 
   
116.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while intoxicated, see §§
70.15 through
70.22
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms used in this chapter shall
be construed according to the definitions below. Unless the context clearly
requires to the contrary, in the event of a conflict between any definition in
this chapter as compared to a definition in the Liquor Control Act of 1934;
ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-1, as amended, the definition in the Liquor Control
Act of 1934 shall control. This chapter incorporates by reference any
definition which is in the Liquor Control Act of 1934 but which is not defined
in this chapter. The following definitions shall apply.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Any establishment or building, or any part thereof, wherein
the game of bowling, played with composition balls and ten wooden pins, is
played.
   CATERER RETAILER. A person who serves alcoholic liquors for consumption,
either on-site or off-site, whether the location is licensed or unlicensed, as
an incidental part of food service. Prepared meals and alcoholic liquors are
sold at a package price agreed upon under contract.
   CATERING ESTABLISHMENT. Premises (other than a restaurant or club which
already has a local liquor license), which are offered for lease to others for
one or more events, e.g., banquets, wedding receptions or other parties, where
someone other than the owner or lessor of the premises will provide food and
alcoholic liquor for the event.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale of alcoholic liquor, which conforms to the definition of a “club” in the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.24 as presently enacted
or hereafter amended.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where meals are actually and regularly
served and consumed and where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which 25
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of the guests and having
one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to the guests, the
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings in connection therewith, and the building or buildings, structure
or structures, being provided with adequate and sanitary dining room and
kitchen equipment and capacity.
   LICENSEE. Any person holding a license under the provisions of this chapter.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public to be a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, which space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SPECIAL EVENT. An event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political,
civil, religious or nonprofit organization.
(1986 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.002 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized to be the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Liquor Control
Act of 1934 (formerly known as the Dram Shop Act), ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-1,
and of the provisions of this code and other ordinances and resolutions
relating to alcoholic liquor as may be needed.
   (B)   The Mayor may appoint a person or persons to assist the Mayor in the
exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided for the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   Any reference in the chapter to “the Commissioner” shall be to the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the authorized agent of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
(1986 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Cross-reference:
   Assistant appointed, see §
32.039
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2
§ 116.003 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF COMMISSIONER.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner is given the right to enter or to
authorize any law enforcement officers to enter at any time upon any premises
licensed under this chapter to determine whether any violations of the Liquor
Control Act of 1934, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-1 as amended, this code, other
ordinances of the city or any rules or regulations adopted by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner have been or are being violated, and at this time to
examine the premises of the licensee.
(1986 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.004 PEDDLING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(1986 Code, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.005 RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL.
   (A)   Persons may possess or consume alcoholic liquor in or directly from a
paper or plastic container while the person is on a sidewalk, street, public
way or other publicly owned property; provided that the consumption occurs
within the area designated within a Class SE or SU permit; on all other
occasions the possession or consumption is unlawful.
   (B)   A person may possess, consume, sell or distribute alcoholic liquor
within any park in the corporate limits, only within the time and place limits
of a Class SE or SU permit; on all other occasions the possession, consumption
or use shall be unlawful.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic liquor
directly from glass, plastic, paper or metal containers on private property
within the city unless the following applies:
      (1)   The consumer is the owner of the private premises or the guest of
the owner; or
      (2)   The owner has a valid retailer’s on-premises consumption license.
   (D)   On all other occasions, it shall be unlawful for a person to possess
or consume alcoholic liquors in or directly from a glass container while the
person is on a sidewalk, street, public way or other publicly owned property.
(1986 Code, § 4-5) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
116.999
LICENSES
§ 116.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at retail any alcoholic
liquor, or conduct any place for the sale of alcoholic liquor, within the
corporate limits of this city, without first having obtained a valid retailer’s
license issued by the Commissioner for each premises where the retailer is
located to sell the same. It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to sell
or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor in violation of the terms of the
license.
   (B)   A liquor license issued by the Commissioner is required for and with
respect to any building location and premises within the corporate limits of
this city, at or upon which alcoholic liquor is sold or kept or offered for
sale at retail.
   (C)   The issuance or possession of a retail liquor dealer tax stamp to any
person, when issued by the United States government or any of its agencies, for
a then-existing tax period, shall be considered as prima facie evidence that
the person is subject to this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 4-21) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see
116.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4
§ 116.016 STATE LICENSE ELIGIBILITY REQUIRED.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to any person not
eligible for a state retail liquor dealer’s license.
(1986 Code, § 4-22)
§ 116.017 CLASSES OF LICENSES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There shall be ten classes of liquor licenses, as follows.
      (1)   Class A, for the retail sale of package liquor only and not for
consumption on the premises, and not for resale in any form. Video gaming is
not permitted. The fee for a Class A license is $400.
      (2)   Class B, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, and not for resale in any form. Video gaming is
permitted, provided that the licensed premise derives less than 50% of its
income from video gaming. The fee for a Class B license is $400.
      (3)   Class C, for the retail sale of beer and wine only for the use and
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form. Video gaming is
permitted, provided that the licensed premise derives less than 50% of its
income from video gaming. The fee for a Class C license is $400.
      (4)   Class CE, catering establishments, for premises not otherwise
licensed by this code, which are leased or permitted to be used by others, when
the catering establishment or the lessee will engage the services of a person
holding a caterer retailer's license. A caterer shall not sell, serve or
deliver to another on the premises of a catering establishment unless the
caterer holds a local caterer retailer's license. Catering establishments which
permit the lessees, customers or guests of lessees to provide their own
alcoholic liquor ("BYOB") shall be required to have a Class CE license.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no license shall be required for any
person having a social function in his or her own residence, nor shall a
license be required for any person who has one or two catered social functions
at the person's place of business in a calendar year. Further notwithstanding
anything to the contrary, nothing herein shall authorize the prosecution of
individual persons who provide their own alcoholic liquor at a catering
establishment for their own consumption at that function. The fee for a Class
CE license is $400.
      (5)   Class CR, caterer retailer, for the sale and serving of alcoholic
liquors as an incidental part of a food service that serves prepared meals
which excludes the serving of snacks as the primary meal, either on- or off-
site, whether licensed or unlicensed. A person who holds a valid caterer
retailer's license from another Illinois jurisdiction shall be known as a
foreign caterer retailer; the licenses shall be limited to the specific event
in the license. An applicant must also provide proof that it has dramshop
liability insurance in the maximum limits. The fee for a Class CR license is
$400.
      (6)   Class D, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form, by fraternal
groups, veteran's organizations or a club, at one permanent location. Video
gaming is permitted, provided that the licensed premise derives less than 50%
of its income from video gaming. The fee for a Class D license is $400.
      (7)   Class E, for the sale and offer for sale at retail, only on the
premises specified in the license, alcoholic liquor for use or consumption on
and off the premises, but not resale in any form. Video gaming is permitted,
provided that the licensed premise derives less than 50% of its income from
video gaming. The fee for a Class E license is $500.
      (8)   Class G, for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption on the premises, but not for resale in any form, by businesses
deriving more than 50% of their income from video gaming, at one permanent
location. There shall be a limit of five Class G licenses issued. Exception:
any Class G license issued and outstanding as of January 1, 2024 shall be
permitted to continue to sell at retail any alcoholic liquor. However, if the
continuous operations of the licensee's business lapse for more than 30 days
for any reason, the license shall terminate and not be subject to renewal
unless a Class G license is available and the licensee is a qualified
applicant. Every Class G licensee shall comply with the provisions of the Video
Gaming Act, ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq., as amended, and all rules,
regulations and restrictions imposed by the State Gaming Board as amended. The
fee for a Class G license is $750.
      (9)   Class SE, special event, for profit retailer's license, for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor, but not for resale in any form, for use and
consumption at the location and on the specific dates for the special event in
the license. An EVENT is defined as a single theme. This license applies to
fraternal, educational, political, civic, religious and not-for-profit
organizations that maintain the responsibility for serving and selling
alcoholic beverages at special events. The license shall be issued for retail
sales only at the location and on the specific dates designated for the special
event. An applicant must also provide proof that it has dramshop liability
insurance in the maximum limits. The fee for a Class SE license is $25 per
special event.
      (10)   Class SU, special use license, shall allow a person with a retail
sales liquor license or a retailer's on-premises consumption license issued by
the city to sell or offer for sale at retail, but not for resale in any form,
alcoholic liquor. This license is limited to the premises and specific dates
described in the license. This license shall have a limited duration of two
days. The maximum number of SU licenses issued to an applicant is five within
any 12-month period. An applicant must also present proof that it has dramshop
insurance in the maximum limits. The fee for a Class SU license is $25 per
event.
   (B)   Persons who hold a valid retail sale of alcoholic liquor or retailer's
on-premises consumption license as issued by the city, who wish to sell, at
retail, alcoholic liquor on parking lots or sidewalks adjacent to their
licensed premises, shall first obtain a special event or special use license,
as applicable.
(1986 Code, § 4-23) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 6-6-1983; Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-
1994; Ord. 2000-18, passed 9-5-2000; Ord. 2021-18, passed 8-2-2021; Ord. 2023-
72, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-50, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 116.018 (RESERVED).
§ 116.019 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES PER PERSON.
   For Classes A, B, C, D, E or CE, the number of licenses for the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall, in no case, exceed two per person. For purposes of this
section, a PERSON shall include: an individual, a partner of a general
partnership, a general partner of a limited partnership, a limited partner who
owns more than 5% of a limited partnership, a manager of a limited liability
company, a member who owns more than 5% of a limited liability company, an
officer or director of a corporation, or a shareholder of more than 5% of a
corporation.
(1986 Code, § 4-25) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.020 APPLICATION; CONTENTS; ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS; RENEWAL, DUTY TO
REPORT CHANGES.
   (A)   Application for a license required by this chapter shall be made to
the City Clerk. The application shall be made in writing, and shall be signed
by the applicant, if an individual or a partner, or by a qualified individual;
for this purpose a “qualified individual” shall be a duly authorized agent of a
club, limited liability company or corporation. The application shall be made
under oath. The application shall include the following information statements
and exhibits:
      (1)   (a)   The name, age, citizenship, place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization and
address of each of the following individuals:
            1.   The applicant, if an individual;
            2.   Each partner of a general partnership;
            3.   Each general partner and each owner of more than 5% of a
limited partnership;
            4.   Each manager of a limited liability company and each member
who owns more than 5% of a limited liability company; and
            5.   Each director and officer of a corporation and each
shareholder of more than 5% of the voting shares of a corporation.
         (b)   For purposes of this section the term APPLICANT, as used below,
shall refer to each of these individuals and to each partnership, limited
partnership, club, limited liability company or corporation, as applicable.
      (2)   The present nature and character of the business of the applicant,
and in the case of a limited partnership, limited liability company or
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (3)   The length of time that the applicant has been involved in business
of that nature or character, and in the case of a limited partnership, limited
liability company or a corporation, the date on which its character, articles
of organization or articles of incorporation were issued;
      (4)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license;
      (6)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made similar
application for a similar license on premises other than described in this
application, and the disposition of that application;
      (7)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, this code, other ordinances of the city, or laws of
the state or federal government;
      (8)   Any information required by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
which may be necessary or convenient to assist the Commissioner to determine
whether the applicant is qualified to receive a license pursuant to this
chapter;
      (9)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
or other disqualifying crime, and is not disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter, this code, the other
ordinances of this city or the laws of this state;
      (10)   Whether a previous license issued for alcoholic liquors by the
state, any subdivision thereof, or the federal government has ever been revoked
or suspended and the reasons therefor;
      (11)   A statement that the applicant will not violate the ordinances of
the city, or the laws of Illinois or the United States in the conduct of the
place of business; and
      (12)   A fully executed copy or photocopy of a lease on the premises in
which the business is to be located. This lease shall be for the full term of
the license. The lease shall be issued to the applicant.
   (B)   If any question on the application for a license or renewal of license
is unanswered or answered incompletely, the omission shall cause the
application to be voided and shall cause the Commissioner to reject that
application.
   (C)   If, after a liquor license is issued or renewed, it is discovered that
an application question was left unanswered or was incompletely answered, the
Commissioner shall immediately notify the applicant and licensee of the
omission. The applicant and licensee shall have five business days from receipt
of this notice to supplement the application with a written and sworn
affidavit. Failure to supplement the application within the specified period
will result in immediate revocation of the liquor license.
   (D)   The applicant for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor has an
affirmative and continuing requirement to update the original application. As a
result, all applicants must inform the Commissioner of any changes in the
information listed in the application within 30 days. Those changes which must
be reported to the Commissioner, and which require the filing of a supplemental
affidavit or sworn statement include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Any change in copartners, trustees, managers or authorized agents
must be reported to the City Clerk and must include the name, residence
address, sex, date of birth, social security number, position and percentage of
ownership (if any) of any person not previously included in the original
application;
      (2)   All internal changes in a corporation pertaining to change of name,
officers, directors and stockholders directly or beneficially holding in the
aggregate more than 5% of the corporate stock, and must include the name,
residence address, sex, date of birth, social security number, position and
percentage of ownership (if any) of any person not previously included in the
original application;
      (3)   All new copartners, trustees, managers, authorized agents,
officers, directors or stockholders directly or beneficially holding more than
5% of a corporation must satisfy all of the eligibility requirements of a
liquor licensee as provided in this chapter; and
      (4)   Any change in the status of the premises to be licensed, including
but not limited to changes in zoning classification or revocation of special
use permit.
   (E)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section or knowingly
furnishing false information on the liquor license application shall be grounds
for immediate suspension or revocation of any liquor license held by the
applicant or licensee. This is in addition to any other sanction which may be
ordered.
(1986 Code, § 4-26) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.021 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT; TESTIMONY; SUBPOENAS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a license required by this
subchapter or for the renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served as provided by state law or ordinance,
and to examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any applicant
or licensee, to hear testimony and take proofs for his or her information in
the performance of his or her duties, and for that purpose to issue subpoenas
which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the purpose of obtaining
any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under
this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to act on his or her
behalf, as provided by state law or ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 4-27)
§ 116.022 WAITING PERIOD PRIOR TO ISSUANCE.
   (A)   There shall be a 30-day waiting period before the issuance of license
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in order to provide sufficient time for
a background check of the applicant. The 30-day period shall begin to run upon
the receipt of a properly completed application by the Commissioner.
   (B)   The Commissioner may, for good cause shown, waive this requirement,
but in no event shall any waiting period be for less than ten days.
(1986 Code, § 4-28) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.023 FEES.
   (A)   The fees for licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
established by the City Council.
   (B)   The fees for licenses issued for special events, special or foreign
caterer retailers special use permits shall be paid in full at the time of
application.
   (C)   The fees for all other licenses shall be paid annually in a single
installment; the fees shall accompany the application for license or renewal of
license.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid with a certified check, cashiers check
or money order. Personal checks will not be accepted. In the event a liquor
license is denied, the license fees shall be refunded to the applicant.
   (E)   In no case shall there be a pro rata refund on any unused portion of a
liquor license.
(1986 Code, § 4-29) (Ord. 1983-4, passed 6-6-1983; Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-
1994)
§ 116.024 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All license fees required by this subchapter shall be paid to the City Clerk
at the time the application for the license is made and shall be forthwith
turned over to the City Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is
denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. If the license is granted,
then the fee shall be deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in any other
fund as shall have been designated by the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 4-30)
§ 116.025 UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, this section
shall apply to units of local government which have real property or facilities
located within the corporate limits of the city. For the purpose of this
section, units of local government include the county, municipalities,
townships, park districts, fire protection districts, library districts, school
districts or any other unit of local government defined by state law. Also, for
purposes of this section, a UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT shall include facilities
of the state.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by the laws of the state, a unit of local
government may adopt ordinances, rules and regulations governing the use,
possession and consumption of alcohol on the real estate and facilities of the
unit of local government. The unit of local government may permit individuals,
while on the premises of a facility of a unit of local government, to use,
possess or consume alcohol for themselves or members of their immediate party.
   (C)   A unit of local government, or an organization authorized by the unit
of local government, shall obtain from the city an SE or SU license for
festivals or special events where alcohol will be sold or delivered to others.
   (D)   Caterers who sell or deliver alcohol during functions at units of
local government shall obtain from the city a CR, SE or SU license, as
otherwise required by this code. A unit of local government shall not be
required to obtain a CE license.
(1986 Code, § 4-31) (Ord. 1995-06, passed 2-20-1995)
§ 116.026 TERM.
   (A)   Special event, special use permit or foreign caterer retailer's
licenses shall be limited in duration to the special event, special use or
catering function for which they are issued.
   (B)   All other licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for one-
year periods beginning on January 1. Licenses issued for the term of November
1, 2020 to October 31, 2021 will be automatically extended to December 31,
2021.
   (C)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees.
Where the continuous operation of the licensee's business has lapsed for a
period longer than 90 days, the license shall terminate. Also the license shall
not be subject to renewal. However, if the licensee's premises have been
destroyed or damaged either by fire or an act of God, and cannot be rebuilt or
repaired within a 90-day period, then the Commissioner may extend the period of
time for which the liquor license maybe held without being in continuous
operation for an additional 90 days.
(1986 Code, § 4-32) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 2021-18, passed 8-2-
2021)
§ 116.027 CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a person who is
not a citizen of the United States.
(1986 Code, § 4-33)
§ 116.028 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT FOR LIQUOR LICENSE APPLICANTS.
   No license shall be issued to an applicant for a liquor license as a sole
proprietorship unless that applicant shall have been a bona fide resident of
the city for one year prior to the filing of the application for the license.
All other applicants must be a resident of the city or live within 30 minutes
of the licensed premises.
(1986 Code, § 4-34) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-20-1986; Ord. 2013-13, passed 10-7-
2013)
§ 116.029 GENERAL MORAL CHARACTER OF APPLICANTS FOR LICENSES AND RENEWALS.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to any person who:
   (A)   Is not of good character and reputation in the community in which he
or she resides;
   (B)   Has been convicted of a felony under any state or federal law, unless
that person has been declared rehabilitated by the Liquor Control Commission as
provided on the Liquor Control Act of 1934, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-
1 et seq., as amended;
   (C)   Has been convicted of being the keeper of a house of ill fame;
   (D)   Has been convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed
to decency and morality;
   (E)   Has had a license issued under this chapter, or issued under the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, revoked for cause;
   (F)   Has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state law
concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or has
forfeited their bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation;
   (G)   Is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated by the
licensee;
   (H)   Has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(3) through (a)(10) or as proscribed by Ch. 720, Act 5, §
28-3, of the Criminal Code of 1961, as amended, or as proscribed by a statute
replacing any of the aforementioned statutory provisions;
   (I)   Is a copartnership to which a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government for the current tax period, or if any of the partners
have been issued a federal gaming device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the
federal government for the current tax period;
   (J)   Is a corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of the
corporation has been issued a federal wagering stamp for the current tax
period;
   (K)   Proposes to locate on a premises for which a federal wagering stamp
has been issued for the current tax period;
   (L)   Has not at the time of filing an application for a liquor license
produced policies of insurance (dramshop and general liability) in a solvent
and responsible company authorized to do business in the state insuring the
licensee against liability for any injury or death which the licensee may incur
while operating under the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Control Act and
this chapter.
      (1)   The policy of dramshop insurance must be in the maximum amounts
required by law.
      (2)   Each applicant must produce a certificate of insurance indicating
that the insurer is immediately required to notify the Commissioner of any
cancellation of the insurance policy.
      (3)   Such an insurance policy must be kept in full force and effect
during the entire license period.
      (4)   Termination or lapse of the licensee’s insurance coverage shall be
grounds for the revocation of the license.
   (M)   Has not filed an affidavit with the City Clerk disclosing any
outstanding debt owed by the applicant to the city or state. If the applicant
is a copartnership, then this disclosure requirement shall apply to every
person entitled to a share in the profits thereof. If the applicant is a trust,
then this shall apply to the trustee and trust. If the applicant is a
corporation for profit, the disclosure requirements of this division (M) shall
apply to the corporation and all shareholders owning more than 5% of the shares
of the corporation applicant;
   (N)   Is otherwise ineligible to receive a license under this chapter or
pursuant to the Liquor Control Act of 1934, as amended; or
   (O)   At the time of the application for renewal of any license issued
hereunder would not be eligible for the license under a first application.
(1986 Code, § 4-35) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 1995-06, passed 2-20-
1995)
§ 116.030 WHEN APPLICANT IS A PARTNERSHIP.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a general
partnership unless all the members of the partnership shall be qualified to
receive a license. No license shall be issued to a limited partnership unless
each general partner shall be qualified to receive a license; no license shall
be issued to a limited partnership if any limited partner owning more than 5%
of the aggregate limited partnership interest would be ineligible to be a
licensee for a reason other than residency.
(1986 Code, § 4-36) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.031 WHEN APPLICANT IS A LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a limited
liability company unless each manager, or member acting as a manager, shall be
qualified to receive a license; no license shall be issued to a limited
liability company if any member owning more than 5% of the limited liability
company would be ineligible to be a licensee for a reason other than residency.
(1986 Code, § 4-36.1) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.032 WHEN APPLICANT IS A CORPORATION.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a corporation if
any officer, manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of the corporation, would not
be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the city. No license required by this
subchapter shall issue to a corporation unless it is incorporated in this
state, or unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the
Business Corporation Act of 1983, being ILCS Ch. 805, Act 5, §§ 1.01 et seq.,
as amended, to transact business in the state. No license required by this
subchapter shall be issued to a corporation unless the corporation maintains an
individual manager or agent possessing the same qualifications of the licensee.
(1986 Code, § 4-37) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.033 MANAGER OR AGENT OF PREMISES TO POSSESS QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a person whose
place of business is conducted by a manager or agent unless the manager or
agent possesses the same qualifications required of the licensee.
(1986 Code, § 4-38)
§ 116.034 APPLICANT TO OWN PREMISES OR SECURE LEASE.
   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to a person who does
not own the premises for which a license is sought, or does not have a lease
thereon for the full period for which the license is to be issued.
(1986 Code, § 4-39)
§ 116.035 PROHIBITION ON CITY OFFICIALS HOLDING LICENSE.
   (A)   No license required by this subchapter shall be issued to any law
enforcing public official, including members of liquor control commissions, any
mayor, alderman, or member of the City Council or commission, any president of
a village board of trustees, any member of a village board of trustees, or any
member of a county board; except that a person who is disqualified by service
in one of these proscribed provisions for a jurisdiction other than the city,
may have a waiver granted by the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   No person who is proscribed in division (A) above shall be interested
in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-40) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.036 SALES IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale in the city any alcoholic
liquor in violation of the terms of a license issued pursuant to this
subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 4-41) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.037 RENEWAL.
   (A)   Any licensee may renew the license at the expiration thereof, provided
that the licensee is then qualified to receive a license, and that the premises
for which the renewal license is sought are suitable for those purposes; and,
provided further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the City Council
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   To renew a liquor license, an applicant must submit an affidavit to
the City Clerk stating that the information and statements contained in the
original application have not changed. Upon the affidavit being filed, the
license may be renewed without the filing of an application as provided in this
section.
   (C)   If the information and statements contained in the original
application have changed then, the applicant must submit a supplement to the
original application. This supplement shall be in writing, verified by oath or
affidavit, and signed by the applicant if an individual. In the case of a
renewal application on behalf of a copartnership, firm, association, club or
corporation, the application shall be in writing, verified by oath or
affidavit, and signed by at least two members of the copartnership, firm,
association or club; or by the president and secretary of the corporation; or
by the trustee.
   (D)   There shall be a 30-day waiting period before the issuance of a
renewal license for retail sale of alcoholic liquor in order to provide
sufficient time to verify the contents of the renewal application. The 30-day
period shall begin to run upon the receipt of a properly completed renewal
application by the Commissioner.
   (E)   To avoid any possible lapse in the liquor license renewal, all renewal
applications must be received before October 31 of the same year that the
liquor license is to expire. If the licensee fails to renew the city liquor
license on or before October 31 of the year prior to the expiration of the
license, the licensee may not engage in any activities for which a liquor
license is required until the licensee applies for a renewal license and remits
all applicable fees, including late fees.
   (F)   No retailer’s license shall be renewed, if the retailer is delinquent
in filing any required tax returns or paying any amounts owed to the city,
until the applicant is issued a certificate by the City Treasurer stating that
all delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid by cashier’s check,
certified check, money order or cash.
   (G)   No retailer’s license shall be renewed, if the State Department of
Revenue has reported to the State Liquor Control Commissioner or the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner that the retailer is delinquent in filing any
required tax returns or paying any amounts owed to the state, until the
applicant is issued a certificate by the Department of Revenue stating that all
delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid by guaranteed remittance or a
payment agreement to pay all amounts owed has been accepted by this same
Department.
   (H)   Failure to supplement the renewal application when required, or
violation of any provision of this chapter may result in immediate suspension
or revocation of the liquor license.
   (I)   Failure to comply with the requirements of this section, or knowingly
furnishing false information on the liquor license application shall be grounds
for immediate suspension or revocation of any liquor license held by the
applicant or licensee.
(1986 Code, § 4-42) (Ord. 1994-28 passed 9-19-1994)
§ 116.038 EFFECT OF RENEWALS ON LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   No currently held liquor license will be refused renewal because of any
limitations on the number of licenses to be issued.
(1986 Code, § 4-43) (Ord. 1981-1, passed 1-19-1981)
§ 116.039 NONTRANSFERABILITY AND THE LIKE.
   A license shall be a purely personal privilege and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to being transferred, encumbered or
hypothecated. The license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution and shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that the
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, when the
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court,
and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of the descendant, or the insolvency or bankruptcy,
until the expiration of the license, but not longer than six months after the
death, bankruptcy or insolvency of the licensee. A refund shall be made of that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under the license in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
(1986 Code, § 4-44)
§ 116.040 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in
the premises described in the application and license. The location may be
changed only upon a written permit to make the change issued by the Mayor. No
change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a
proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under state law, this code
and other ordinances of the city.
(1986 Code, § 4-45)
§ 116.041 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all these licenses issued by him or her.
(1986 Code, § 4-46)
§ 116.042 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or naval
station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to clubs, or
restaurants, food shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is
not the principal business carried on, if the place of business not exempted
shall have been established for that purpose prior to the taking effect of this
chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor on
premises within 100 feet of any church where the church has been established
within the 100 feet since the issuance of the original license.
(1986 Code, § 4-47)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-11
§ 116.043 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for the
minors.
(1986 Code, § 4-48)
§ 116.044 EMERGENCY CLOSING.
   (A)   In all cases where, in the opinion of the Commissioner, the public
peace or the welfare of the community, is likely to be threatened or endangered
by the keeping open of places where intoxicating liquor is sold at retail or
dispensed, it shall be lawful for the Commissioner, without notice or hearing,
to close the premises upon the issuance of a written order which shall state
the reasons for the closing, commanding and enjoining any or all persons so
licensed by the city and their servants and agents from selling, giving away or
permitting any alcoholic liquors to be imbibed in or about their premises
during the time mentioned in the order.
   (B)   In any event, no emergency order shall be valid beyond seven days,
giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period. If the
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business(es) on the
licensed premises, the order shall not be applicable to the other business(es).
   (C)   The Chief of Police may order, at his or her discretion, a licensed
premises to be closed without hearing for a period of 24 hours, if the premises
constitutes a crime scene, and the closing could prevent the loss or
destruction of evidence and facilitate a police investigation, or if the
premises was the scene of a violent
disturbance involving injury or threat to citizens or the use of firearms. The
closing, and the reasons thereof, will be documented by the Chief of Police and
a report submitted to the Commissioner.
(1986 Code, § 4-49) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5
§ 116.045 VICARIOUS LIABILITY.
   (A)    If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the
licensee derives the right to possession of the premises, or the agent of the
owner or person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use the licensed
premises in violation of the terms of this chapter, the owner, agent or other
person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent
as the licensee and be subject to the same punishment.
   (B)   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, by any officer, director, manager or
other agent or employee of any licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act
of the employer or licensee, and the employer or licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if the act or omission had been done or omitted by the
licensee personally.
(1986 Code, § 4-50) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 10-2 and 10-3
§ 116.046 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following parties shall have the right to file a complaint with
the Commissioner stating that a liquor licensee has been or is violating any
rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission, any state statute
regarding alcoholic liquor, or any provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The City Attorney;
      (2)   The Chief of Police;
      (3)   Any law enforcement official; or
      (4)   Any resident of this city.
   (B)   The complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the person making the
complaint. The complaint shall state the provisions believed to have been
violated and the facts in detail upon which this belief is based.
   (C)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that the alleged facts provide reasonable cause for
that belief, then the Commissioner shall set the matter for hearing and shall
serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of the hearing, and of the
particular charge(s) in the complaint.
   (D)   A presumption of a violation of the provisions of this chapter is
created where evidence that the licensee has been found guilty of violating any
of the following is presented:
      (1)   A state law in the conduct of a licensed business;
      (2)   A state law upon the premises; or
      (3)   Any provision of this chapter.
   (E)   Prima facie evidence of a violation of the provisions of this chapter
is provided by evidence that any person other than the licensee has been found
guilty of violating any of the following:
      (1)   A state law upon the premises; or
      (2)   Any provision of this chapter.
   (F)   Proof of a violation of any provision of this chapter by a clear
preponderance of the evidence shall be sufficient cause for suspension or
revocation of any license issued under this chapter, irrespective of whether or
not a conviction has been obtained in any court.
   (G)   In all prosecutions under this chapter, it shall be sufficient to
state that the act complained of took place in a territory where the sales were
prohibited. It shall not be necessary to state or set forth facts alleging any
of the following:
      (1)   The name(s) of any person to whom alcoholic liquor was sold;
      (2)   The kind of alcoholic liquor sold;
      (3)   A description of the premises where sold; or
      (4)   Knowledge of the principal (licensee) of acts committed by any
agent or employee.
(1986 Code, § 4-51) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.H.A. ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 10-2 and 10-3
§ 116.047 HEARING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Commissioner may revoke or suspend any liquor license issued by
this city or fine the licensee, if he or she determines that the licensee has
violated any of the provisions of this chapter, any applicable rule or
regulations established by the State Liquor Control Commissioner, any state law
regarding alcoholic liquor or any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any continuing
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community he or she may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for the conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven days, giving the licensee an
opportunity to be heard during that period; except that if the licensee shall
also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, then the order shall not be applicable to the other business
or businesses not involving alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   In situations in which the welfare of the city or its citizens is not
immediately threatened, the Commissioner shall give a licensee three-days’
written notice at which time a hearing will be held to determine whether the
city liquor license should be revoked or suspended. The licensee shall have the
right to appear at the hearing and defend himself or herself.
   (D)   The Commissioner shall conduct the hearing, and the City Attorney or
his or her designee shall be allowed to present evidence against the licensee.
   (E)   The hearing shall be open to the public, and an official record of the
hearing shall be maintained and preserved either through tape recordings or by
the efforts of a certified shorthand reporter or stenographer. All written
evidence shall be preserved.
   (F)   The Commissioner shall within five days after the hearing, if he or
she determines that the license should be revoked or suspended, state the
reason(s) for that determination, the period of suspension or revocation or the
amount of fine levied in a written order. The licensee shall be served a copy
of the written order within five days of the issuance of the order.
(1986 Code, § 4-52) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 7-5 and 7-7
§ 116.048 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   When any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall have been
revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period
of one year thereafter for conducting the business of selling alcoholic liquor
in the premises described in the revoked license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this
chapter for a licensee to continue to operate under its license after the
license has been revoked by the Commissioner.
(1986 Code, § 4-53) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
116.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 4-4 and 7-5
§ 116.049 APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   Whenever any order or action of the Commissioner, levying or refusing to
levy a fine on a licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or
suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend a license, or refusing for more
than 30 days to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license
is appealed to the State Commission, the appeal shall be limited to a review of
the official record of the proceedings of the Local Liquor Control Commission.
(1986 Code, § 4-54) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9
OPERATIONS
§ 116.060 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee under this subchapter to keep
open or permit to be open any place where alcoholic liquor is sold between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. of any day, including Sundays. All patrons
must be out of establishments by 1:30 a.m., including Sundays. Subject to these
limitations, the sale of alcoholic liquor by licensees is permitted.
   (B)   The intent of division (A) of this section is not to close entire
businesses or events, but only those portions or areas of businesses devoted to
the sale of alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-66) (Ord. 1980-11, passed 9-2-1980; Ord. 1993-07, passed 4-5-
1993; Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 2000-30, passed 12-4-2000; Ord.
2001-22, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 2002-30, passed 12-2-2002; Ord. 2003-26, passed
12-15-2003; Ord. 2004-35, passed 12-6-2004; Ord. 2005-38, passed 12-5-2005;
Ord. 2006-32, passed 12-18–2006; Ord. 2007-24, passed 12-17-2007) Penalty, see
§
116.999
§ 116.061 SPECIAL HOURS FOR BOWLING ALLEYS AND COMMERCIAL ATHLETIC FACILITIES.
   No person shall keep open, operate or use any bowling alley or commercial
athletic facility selling alcoholic beverages between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. on all days except Sundays, and on Sundays between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
(1986 Code, § 4-67) Penalty, see §
116.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-2
§ 116.062 SANITATION GENERALLY.
   All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage of
the liquor for sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall
be kept in full compliance with the provisions of this code and other
ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption.
(1986 Code, § 4-69) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.063 DISEASED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to employ in any premises used for
the sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal diseases.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person afflicted with or who is a carrier
of any such disease to work in or about any premises used for the sale of
alcoholic liquor or to engage in work in or about the premises or to engage in
any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-70) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.064 ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES TO DWELLING QUARTERS.
   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at
retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from the premises to
any other portion of the same building or structure used for dwelling or
lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use
by the public. This provision shall not prevent any connection between the
premises and any other portion of the building or structure which is used only
by the licensee, his or her family or personal guests.
(1986 Code, § 4-71)
§ 116.065 VIEW FROM STREET; INTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   In premises in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed, other than in a restaurant, hotel or bowling alley
not situated on the front or ground floor, or club, no screen, blind, curtain,
partition, article or thing shall be permitted in windows or upon the doors of
the licensed premises nor inside the premises, which shall prevent a clear view
into the interior of the licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at
all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of the premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of the
premises, and the entire space used by the public must be so located that there
shall be a full view of the same from the street, road or sidewalk.
   (B)   All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the
premises shall be continually lighted during business hours by natural or
artificial white lights so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible.
   (C)   In case the view into any part of the licensed premises shall be
wilfully obscured by the licensee, the license may be revoked.
   (D)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him or her
of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above
required.
(1986 Code, § 4-72)
§ 116.066 ON-PREMISES VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail
under this chapter to do any of the following.
   (A)   Permit any employee, agent, entertainer or patron to perform any lewd
or lascivious act, including but not limited to any demonstration, dance,
performance or exhibition on the licensed premises where the person engages in
any of the following conduct:
      (1)   Exposure of the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic region;
      (2)   Exposure of any device, costume or covering which gives the
appearance of or simulates the genitalia, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
or pubic region;
      (3)   Exposure of any portion of the female breast at or below the areola
thereof;
      (4)   Performance or simulated performance of acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any other
sexual acts; or
      (5)   Display of moving pictures, photographic slide presentations, video
presentations or video projection presentations depicting acts or simulated
acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,
flagellation or any other sexual acts.
   (B)   Employ or use the services of any person in the sale or service of
alcoholic liquor in or upon the licensed premises while the person is unclothed
or in attire, costume or clothing so as to result in conduct prohibited in
division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device or instrument in
or upon the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic liquor is sold
or given away, except as explicitly permitted under state statutes.
      (1)   Accept, receive or borrow money, or anything else of value directly
or indirectly from any person connected with or in any way representing any
manufacturer or distributor of any coin-operated or amusement licensed
premises.
      (2)   However, the provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to
commissions or rental fees arising out of the use of the coin-operated or
amusement device on the licensed premises.
   (D)   Suffer any drunkenness, fighting, unlawful games, riotous or
disorderly conduct whatsoever, in any premises kept or occupied for the purpose
of sale at retail of alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-73) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.067 CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.
   No person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor at retail under this chapter
shall violate any patron’s civil rights by personally or vicariously committing
any of the following acts:
   (A)   Permitting an officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations,
advantages, facilities and privileges of any premises in which alcoholic
liquors are authorized to be sold, subject only to the conditions and
limitations established by law and applicable alike to all citizens;
   (B)   Refusing to serve alcoholic liquor to a person who presents
identification that he or she is 21 years of age or more provided that unless
the licensee, officer, associate, member, representative, agent or employee
reasonably doubts the authenticity of the offered identification; or
   (C)   Refusing to serve alcoholic liquor to a person who presents
identification that he or she is 21 years of age or more when the refusal of
service by the licensee, officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee is based in any part on the person’s race, color, creed, religion,
national origin or sex.
(1986 Code, § 4-74) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994) Penalty, see §
116.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-17
§ 116.068 DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND WARNING SIGNS.
   All persons licensed to sell alcoholic liquor must post, in a conspicuous
place, the following documents:
   (A)   The city certificate of license;
   (B)   A sign which clearly reads:
      GOVERNMENT WARNING:
      According to the Surgeon General, women should not drink alcoholic
beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of birth defects.
   (C)   A sign which clearly reads:
      WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE:
      You are subject to a fine of up to $500.00 under the City of Troy Liquor
Code if you purchase, receive, accept or acquire alcoholic or nonalcoholic
liquor or if you misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing,
receiving, accepting or acquiring alcoholic or nonalcoholic liquor.
   (D)   Any other signs or warnings which are required by state or federal law
to be publicly displayed in establishments that sell alcoholic liquor at
retail.
(1986 Code, § 4-75) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
MINORS
§ 116.080 POSSESSION; ATTEMPTED PURCHASES BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall have any alcoholic beverage
in his or her possession.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase or attempt to
purchase any alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   No person under the age of 21 years shall present or offer to any
licensee, his or her agent or employee, any written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or
her own for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase, or
otherwise procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic
beverage; nor shall any person under the age of 21 years carry, use or have in
his or her possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic
evidence of age and identity. No person shall transfer, alter or deface an
identification card or obtain an identification card by means of false
information.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the city where alcoholic
liquor is sold.
   (E)   For the purpose of preventing the violation of this section, any
licensee, or his or her agent or employee, may refuse to sell or serve
alcoholic beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written
evidence of identity of the fact that he or she is over the age of 21 years.
   (F)   This section does not apply to possession by a person under the age of
21 years making a delivery of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order
of his or her parent or in pursuance of his or her employment.
(1986 Code, § 4-86) (Ord. 1981-16, passed 8-17-1981) Penalty, see §
116.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16
§ 116.081 ATTENDANCE IN BARS, POURING DRINKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years and not in the
company of his or her parent or guardian to attend any bar. It shall be
unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises.
(1986 Code, § 4-87) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.082 SALES TO MINORS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person
under the age of 21 years, except in the performance of a religious ceremony or
service.
(1986 Code, § 4-88) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.083 PERMITTING MINORS IN ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license or his or her agent or employee to permit any minor to remain in any
room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place
where the licensed premises are located.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply to any
minor who is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or to any licensed
premises which derives its principal business from the sale or services of
other commodities than alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-89) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.084 REQUIREMENT TO DEMAND IDENTIFICATION.
   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believes or has reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making the sale
or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties.
(1986 Code, § 4-90)
§ 116.085 POSTING WARNING TO MINORS.
   In every tavern or other place in the city where alcoholic liquor is sold
there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which
shall be supplied by the City Clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
      You are subject to a fine up to $500.00 under the ordinances of the City
of Troy if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
(1986 Code, § 4-91)
§ 116.086 PARENTS AND GUARDIANS NOT TO PERMIT VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor child of
which he or she may be the parent or guardian to violate any of the provisions
of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 4-92) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.087 PERMITTING MINOR TO POSSESS OR CONSUME ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE AT A
PRIVATE RESIDENCE.
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a civil offense where he or she
knowingly permits a gathering at a residence, which he or she occupies, of two
or more persons where any one or more of the persons is under 18 years of age
and the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any person under the
age of 18 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 18
is not otherwise permitted by this code or by the laws of the state; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 18 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, if the residence has an owner and a
tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(1986 Code, § 4-93) Penalty, see §
116.999
§ 116.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the Commissioner finds any licensee or holder
of a retail liquor license, or his or her agent or employee, guilty of
violating any provision of this chapter, the Commissioner may order one or more
of the following:
         (a)   A fine not to exceed $1,000 per violation, nor more than $10,000
maximum in total fines, against any licensee during the period of the license;
         (b)   Reasonable attorney fees incurred by the Commissioner;
         (c)   Reasonable hearing costs, including court reporter fees incurred
at the hearing;
         (d)   Suspension of the licensee’s liquor license for a period not to
exceed 30 days; or
         (e)   Revocation of the licensee’s liquor license.
      (2)   In the event that the Commissioner finds any underaged person or
patron of a licensed premises guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter, the patron may be fined an amount up to $500 for each violation
charged.
      (3)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, or any of the
regulations promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to an offense for each and
every day on which the violation continues, and each day that the offense
continues shall be regarded as constituting a separate offense.
      (4)   The aforesaid remedies shall be in addition to all other remedies
and penalties available to the city or to the Commissioner, both at law or in
equity and not in lieu thereof. Any penalties, costs or fees assessed under
this chapter shall be payable upon the order of the Commissioner unless notice
of appeal has been filed by the licensee, in which case payment is stayed until
the final decision of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1986 Code, § 4-55) (Ord. 1994-28, passed 9-19-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 3-12, 4-1, 4-4, 7-5 and 7-9
CHAPTER 117: ROOFING CONTRACTORS
Section
   
117.01   Bond and proof of insurance requirements
   
117.02   Building code requirements
   
117.03   Registration required
   
117.04   Registration requirements
   
117.05   No cost of registration
   
117.06   Application
   
117.07   Proof of registration
   
117.08   Violation
   
117.09   List of registered contractors
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 BOND AND PROOF OF INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   No registration shall be issued to any roofing contractor unless a
certificate or other proof is filed with the Building and Zoning Department
evidencing that the roofing contractor carries valid statutory Illinois
worker's compensation insurance, as well as general liability insurance with
limits of at least $500,000 (property damage) and $500,000 (per person)/
$1,000,000 (aggregate) for accident and/or bodily injury liability.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.02 BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The International Building Code, 2012 edition, including Appendix chapters,
as published by the International Code Council serves as the Building Code of
the city. See §§
151.020, et seq. All roofing contractors are subject to same, including the
penalties for violations of the Code (see §
151.199).
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to perform any roofing work, for profit, within the
city, unless registered to do so by the city.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.04 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No registration shall be issued by the city unless the roofing contractor is
properly licensed through the State of Illinois. The roofing contractor is
required to provide its State of Illinois License Number to the city. All
roofing contractors must register in person with the Building and Zoning
Department and possess a valid photo identification. All roofing contractors
must have the names of their company properly identified on all of their
vehicles. Any advertisement or contract must contain the roofing contractor's
state roofing license number. Registrations are good for one year and must be
renewed annually with the Building and Zoning Department.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.05 NO COST OF REGISTRATION.
   The city shall require no processing fee to be paid at the time of
application.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.06 APPLICATION.
   The roofing contractor shall be required to fill out and submit an
application on a form provided by the city.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.07 PROOF OF REGISTRATION.
   All roofing contractors shall exhibit their city registration at a prominent
location when performing roofing work, and the registration shall be available
at all times for inspection upon demand by local law or code enforcement
officials.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.08 VIOLATION.
   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this chapter if upon
request, a roofing contractor cannot produce a current, valid registration from
the city upon demand by local law or code enforcement officials.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.09 LIST OF REGISTERED CONTRACTORS.
   The city shall maintain a list of all roofing contractors with valid city
registrations available for inspection at the Building and Zoning Department,
as well as on its website.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $100 to $500 for
each violation. Each day of violation is considered a separate offense. Local
law or code enforcement officials are authorized to stop all work being
performed by an unregistered roofing contractor.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-6-2017)
CHAPTER 118: REGULATION OF USE OF CANNABIS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Registration
   
118.03   Regulations and restrictions
   
118.04   Violations
   
118.05   Municipal cannabis retailer’ occupation tax
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever reference is made in this chapter to the "Illinois Cannabis Act" or
the "Cannabis Act" it shall mean the Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act of
Illinois approved June 25, 2019, in force January 1, 2020. All other words and
phrases used herein shall have the same meaning as the same or similar words or
phrases defined by and used in said Cannabis Regulations and Tax Act, including
the following:
   ACT. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act of Illinois approved June 25, 2019
as Public Act 101-0027.
   ADVERTISE. To engage in promotional activities including, but not limited
to: newspaper, radio, internet and electronic media, and television
advertising; the distribution of fliers and circulars; and the display of
window and interior signs.
   CANNABIS. Marijuana, hashish, and other substances that are identified as
including any parts of the plant cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant,
its seeds, or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
naturally produced cannabinol derivatives, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction; however, "cannabis" does not include the mature
stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the
seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin extracted from it),
fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of
germination. CANNABIS does not include industrial hemp as defined and
authorized under the Industrial Hemp Act. CANNABIS also means concentrate and
cannabis-infused products.
   DISPENSARY. A facility operated by a dispensing organization at which
activities licensed by the Act may occur.
   DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an organization or business
that is licensed by the Department of Financial and Professional Regulation to
acquire cannabis from a cultivation center, craft grower, processing
organization, or another dispensary for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia, or related
supplies under this Act to purchasers or to qualified registered medical
cannabis patients and caregivers.
   PERSON. A natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian, or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 118.02 REGISTRATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a dispensary within the
boundaries of the city without having first registered with the City Clerk and
submitting the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of all persons owning 50% or more of the dispensing
organization;
   (B)   Location of operation;
   (C)   Hours of operation; and,
   (D)   A copy of the license issued by the Illinois Department of Financial
and Professional Registration.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 118.03 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a dispensary between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   No dispensary nor any other person or entity shall place or maintain,
or cause to be placed or maintained, an advertisement of cannabis or a
cannabis-infused product in any form or through any medium that:
      (1)   Is false or misleading;
      (2)   Promotes overconsumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (3)   Depicts the actual consumption of cannabis or cannabis products;
      (4)   Depicts a person under 21 years of age consuming cannabis;
      (5)   Makes any health, medicinal, or therapeutic claims about cannabis
or cannabis-infused products;
      (6)   Includes the image of a cannabis leaf or bud; or
      (7)   Includes any image designed or likely to appeal to minors,
including cartoons, toys, animals, or children, or any other likeness to
images, characters, or phrases that is designed in any manner to be appealing
to or encourage consumption of persons under 21 years of age.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to advertise cannabis or a cannabis-infused
product in any form or through any medium:
      (1)   Within 1,000 feet of the perimeter of school grounds, a playground,
a recreation center or facility, a child-care center, a public park or public
library, or a game arcade where admission is not restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older;
      (2)   In or on a public transit vehicle or public transit shelter; or,
      (3)   On publicly owned or public operated property.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis on a school bus,
grounds of a preschool, primary or secondary school, unless used by a
qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use or Medical
Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to possess or use cannabis in a private residence
used at any time to provide licensed childcare;
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to use cannabis in any motor vehicle, in any
public place or in any place where smoking is prohibited under the Smoke Free
Illinois Act;
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to facilitate the use of cannabis by a person not
allowed to use cannabis under the Act;
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly use cannabis in close proximity to
anyone under the age of 21 who is not a registered medical cannabis patient
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to grow cannabis unless authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for a person who is 21 years or older and a
resident of Illinois to possess more than:
      (1)   Thirty grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Five hundred milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or,
      (3)   Five grams of cannabis concentrate;
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for a non-resident of Illinois to possess more
than:
      (1)   Fifteen grams of cannabis flower;
      (2)   Two hundred fifty grams of THC contained in a cannabis-infused
product; or,
      (3)   Two and one-half grams of cannabis concentrate;
   (L)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian to knowingly permit the
consumption of cannabis by a person under the age of 21 in his or her
residence, or any other private property under his or her control, or in any
vehicle under his or her control;
   (M)   It shall be unlawful for a dispensary or any other person or entity to
encourage the sale of cannabis or cannabis products by giving away cannabis or
cannabis products, by conducting games or competitions related to the
consumption of cannabis or cannabis products, or by providing promotional
materials or activities of a manner or type that would be appealing to
children.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 118.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to comply with this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 118.05 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed - rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City of Troy, Illinois at
the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Section 8-11-23 of the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-23).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax imposed by this section shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue ("Department"). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect.
      (2)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be
assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 2-18-2020)
CHAPTER 119: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
119.01   Definition
   
119.02   Permit required; procedures; fee
   
119.03   Permit approval
§ 119.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different name.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any outdoor or seasonal event such as a tent sale, warehouse
sale, sidewalk sale, craft fair, carnival, picnic, contest, game, sporting
event, rodeo, 5K run, farmers’ market, Christmas tree sales lot, or similar
promotion event. A SPECIAL EVENT may not exceed six months in duration per
calendar year. Parades within city limits are not considered SPECIAL EVENTS and
will be processed by the City Clerk/Deputy Clerk for IDOT clearance and Troy
Police Department coordination.
(Ord. 2024-57, passed 10-7-2024; Ord. 2024-58, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 119.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; PROCEDURES; FEE.
   (A)   Special events as defined in §
11.01 of this chapter require a special events permit.
   (B)   An application for a special events permit must be filed with the City
Administrator not less than four weeks prior to the first day of the special
event. The City Administrator will coordinate the review of the permit with
affected city departments. The cost for permit issuance is $50 for “for-profit”
applicants. There will be no permit charge for non-profit organizations. Proof
shall be provided of non-profit status.
   (C)   With each special events permit application, the applicant must also
provide the following related information (if applicable):
      (1)   Traffic and parking plan (parking area; street closing or one-way
restrictions; traffic control points where police assistance may be needed;
overflow parking areas); anticipated crowds; estimated attendance;
      (2)   Contingency plans for rain (relocation or rescheduling of events;
alternative parking areas; method of notifying the public of changes);
      (3)   Proof of liability insurance; and if the event is held on city
property, the city should be named as an additional insured in the amount of
$2,000,000;
      (4)   Damage bond or cash deposit to protect city facilities (this would
be mainly for out-of-town sponsors) in the amount of $500,000;
      (5)   Health permits for all food concessions;
      (6)   Liquor license information for beer sales (including hours of
sale);
      (7)   Plans for toilet facilities;
      (8)   A list of for-profit vendors and sales tax numbers (to verify that
sales tax is collected and remitted) to be provided prior to the event;
      (9)   A security plan;
      (10)   ADA compliance;
      (11)   The name and phone number of the person in charge of the event and
a secondary contact; and
      (12)   Special consideration requests, i.e., city-provided assistance
requested (Street Department, IDOT) (for street closings, signalization, and
detour routes), Police Department, Fire Department), being as specific as
possible (fees maybe charged for these services).
   (D)   Temporary signs for the special event shall be permitted as provided
for in
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations of the Code of Ordinances or as otherwise approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2024-57, passed 10-7-2024; Ord. 2024-58, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 119.03 PERMIT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval by City Administrator. The City Administrator shall review
and may approve certain special events; provided, they meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   The event is requested by an existing registered business within
the city or by a non-profit organization with the approval of an existing
registered business within the city and is located on its business property or
is held on city property and does not require the closure of public streets;
      (2)   The duration of the event will not exceed three days;
      (3)   The event will not require the issuance of a liquor permit;
      (4)   A special event has not or will not be held more than four previous
times during any calendar year at the same location;
      (5)   Event requires no more than an incidental amount of city services,
as determined by the City Administrator; and
      (6)   No off-premises signage or ribbons are requested, other than
temporary noncommercial signs authorized without a permit under §
155.04.
   (B)   Approval by City Administrator for reoccurring special events. In
addition to the requirements of division (A) of this section, the City
Administrator shall review and may approve certain special events provided they
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The event has been requested and approved by the City Council for
at least the two years immediately preceding the request;
      (2)   The request is substantially similar to the previously approved
event;
      (3)   The event has not been objected to by any of the following: the
Police Chief, the City Administrator, the Mayor, or a positive vote of any
committee; and
      (4)   If these conditions are not met, the special event permit request
shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration.
   (C)   Approval by City Council. All other requests for special permits not
approved by the City Administrator shall go before the City Council for
approval.
(Ord. 2024-57, passed 10-7-2024; Ord. 2024-58, passed 11-4-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY, PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Barbed wire and electrically charged fences
   
130.02   Prohibited cemeteries, burials
   
130.03   Obstructing exits or stairways
   
130.04   Gas leaks
Weapons
   
130.20   BB guns, missiles and the like prohibited
   
130.21   Discharge of firearms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRICALLY CHARGED FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire or with any similar materials designed to cause injury
to person or with any wire charged with electrical current except to protect
industrial property, in which case the barbed wire must be at least six feet
above the sidewalk and extend inward toward the property it is designed to
protect.
(1986 Code, § 15-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 PROHIBITED CEMETERIES, BURIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish a cemetery or to bury any
person within the city or within one mile thereof, except in an established
cemetery.
(1986 Code, § 15-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 OBSTRUCTING EXITS OR STAIRWAYS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used by two
or more tenants or families in such manner that it interferes with the free use
of the stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(1986 Code, § 15-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 GAS LEAKS.
   Any person maintaining any gas pipe in the city shall, in the absence of a
provision in a franchise concerning the subject, keep the pipes free from
leaks.
(1986 Code, § 15-9)
WEAPONS
§ 130.20 BB GUNS, MISSILES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to shoot any BB gun, pellet gun, slingshot or to cast,
throw or propel any missile of any kind at any place in the city.
(1986 Code, § 15-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or airgun in the city. This
section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law from
discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duties or to any citizen
when lawfully defending his or her person or property.
(1986 Code, § 15-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-1
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY, PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Injuring public property
   
131.02   Depositing glass, nails and the like on streets, sidewalks and alleys
   
131.03   Noise
   
131.04   Violation of emergency executive orders
Nuisances
   
131.15   Defined; prohibited; authority to abate
   
131.16   Nonsummary abatement
   
131.17   Summary abatement
   
131.18   Special assessment
Lot Maintenance
   
131.30   Maintaining unsightly premises
   
131.31   Keeping junk or debris
   
131.32   Littering
   
131.33   Trash pickup
   
131.34   Camping on public property
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Abandoned vehicles, see §§
70.40 through
70.44
   Dangerous buildings, see §§
151.055,
151.056
   Garbage and trash, see
Ch. 50
   Noxious growth, see §§
91.15 through
91.20
   Nuisances, see also
Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 INJURING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, interfere with or
assert control over any property owned or controlled by the city without proper
authority from the Mayor and City Council.
(1986 Code, § 15-1) (Ord. 1979-9, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DEPOSITING GLASS, NAILS AND THE LIKE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, nails, tacks or other
similar articles, on any street, sidewalk or alley in the city.
(1986 Code, § 15-6) Penalty, see §
131.99
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see § 92.001
§ 131.03 NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make or cause to be made any noise or sounds
of a volume or of such a nature as to cause annoyance to residents of the city
or to offend any person of reasonable sensibilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to disturb the peace by the making of any
unnecessary noise.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any pneumatic hammer, grinding or
crushing machinery, mixing or leading machine, or any other machinery,
equipment or device in the city which makes or causes a noise in violation of
any of the provisions of this section.
(1986 Code, § 15-15) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 VIOLATION OF EMERGENCY EXECUTIVE ORDERS.
   (A)   Purposes of this section. Executive orders in furtherance of the
public health, safety, and welfare lawfully issued by the Governor of the State
of Illinois by the powers vested in Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and
Sections 7(1), 7(2), 7(8), 7(10), and 7(12) of the Illinois Emergency
Management Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, and consistent with the powers in
public health laws, shall be observed and obeyed by the citizens of the City of
Troy. Violations of these lawful executive orders are hereby declared a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Violation of an executive order. It shall be unlawful for any person,
partnership, joint adventure, association, society, club, trustee or
corporation or any officer, agent, employee, factor or any kind of personal
representative to violate any executive order of the Governor of the State of
Illinois pursuant to the Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois
Constitution and Sections 7(1), 7(2), 7(8), 7(10), and 7(12) of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person or entity having been found guilty of violating any
Executive Order of the Governor of the State of Illinois pursuant to the
Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution and Sections 7
(1), 7(2), 7(8), 7(10), and 7(12) of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Act, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $750 per
day that such offense continues; and
      (2)   Any person or entity having been found guilty of violating division
(B) of this section shall be liable for a fine on a continuing basis and shall
be subject to a $750 fine for each day that said violation continues.
(Ord. 2020-10, passed 4-6-2020)
NUISANCES
§ 131.15 DEFINED; PROHIBITED; AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
   The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined
to be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
person within the territorial limits of the city, are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited.
   (A)   Generally. Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the state or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the
ordinances of the city. In addition, the officials of the city shall be
authorized to abate any nuisance which while not specifically defined within
Ordinance 1986-1 shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable or unlawful
use by a person of property, real or personal, or from his or her own improper,
indecent or unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a
right of another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance,
inconvenience, discomfort or hurt that the law will presume an actionable
nuisance. Nuisances may be abated which are public or which are both public and
private in nature.
   (B)   Dead animals, filth and the like. To cause or suffer the carcass of
any animal or any offal, filth or noisome substance to be collected, deposited
or to remain in any place under his or her ownership or control to the
prejudice of others or to throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter
or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well
or common sewer, street or public highway.
   (C)   Pollution of water.  To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Encroachments. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private
ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying places.
   (E)   Noxious occupations.  To erect, continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public.
   (F)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on or affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building
exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public or private property, or
on rocks or other natural objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities.
   (G)   Interfering with real estate sales. To harass, intimidate or threaten
any person who is about to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or
other real property or is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a
residence or other real property, when the harassment, intimidation or threat
relates to a person’s attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence or other real
property, or refers to a person's sale, purchase or lease of a residence or
other real property.
   (H)   Dumping, burning trash. To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn
upon any public property or right-of-way, highway, park, street or parkway
anywhere in the city, any trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor
vehicles or parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste.
   (I)   Keeping junk, junked vehicles. To store, keep or maintain outside of a
closed building, any junk, parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable
condition, or any motor vehicle not in an operable condition, where the
inoperable motor vehicle is an actual danger or detriment to life, safety,
health or peaceful enjoyment of the property of surrounding landowners;
provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to a properly licensed
junkyard or other permitted outdoor storage use which is in full compliance
with all of the provisions of this code and other ordinances of the city
governing the same.
   (J)   Dangerous, uninhabitable buildings. To own, maintain or keep a
dwelling unit unfit for human habitation, or dangerous or detrimental to life,
safety or health because of lack of repair, defects in the plumbing system,
lighting or ventilation, the existence of contagious diseases or unsanitary
conditions likely to cause sickness among persons residing in the premises or
residing in proximity thereof.
   (K)   Harboring rats. To store or place any materials in a manner which may
harbor rats.
   (L)   Offensive noises. To produce or permit to be produced, whether on
public or private property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace
or quiet of any person residing in the vicinity.
   (M)   Watercourses. It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm
or corporation to obstruct any watercourse or source of water supply in the
city.
   (N)   Premises.  It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure or
place to remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in
any way. Any such structure, building or place is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1986 Code, § 15-26) (Ord. 1986-1, passed 1-20-1986) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Except where otherwise provided by this code or other
ordinances of the city, any officer of the city possessing police powers may
serve or cause to be served a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent,
occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot, building or
premises or item of personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring
them, or either or both of them, to abate the same within a specified
reasonable time, in such manner as the notice shall direct.
   (B)   Abatement; notice; contents.  The notice to abate shall contain:
      (1)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance or other condition;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance or condition;
      (3)   A reasonable time within which to complete the abatement;
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance or condition is not abated as
directed and no request for hearing is made within the time prescribed, the
city may abate it and assess the costs against the person; and
      (5)   A statement that if the aforesaid costs are assessed against the
person, the city may place a lien against the person's real estate upon which
the nuisance or condition was abated and/or may dispose of any personal
property which constituted the nuisance in a commercially reasonable fashion in
order to pay the aforesaid costs as assessed.
   (C)   Failure to comply with notice. If a person served and notified in
accordance with division (A) of this section does not abate the nuisance within
the specified reasonable time, the city may proceed to abate the nuisance in
any or all manner allowable by law including, without limiting the generality
thereof, the following:
      (1)   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as provided in §
131.99 by instituting an ordinance enforcement action;
      (2)   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction; and
      (3)   Performing or contracting for the performance of the physical
actions necessary to abate the nuisance; and keeping an accurate account of the
expenses incurred. The itemized expense account shall be filed with the City
Clerk who shall pay the expenses on behalf of the municipality.
   (D)   Abatement; hearing; appeal. Any person ordered to abate a nuisance may
have a hearing with the City Land Use Committee as to whether a nuisance
exists. A request for a hearing must be made in writing and delivered to the
City Clerk within the time stated in the notice or it will be conclusively
presumed that a nuisance exists and it must be abated as ordered. If a hearing
is requested in writing, the Land Use Committee shall schedule the same no
sooner than within three days nor later than 14 days after the request. The
person requesting the hearing may be represented by an attorney. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Land Use Committee shall render a written
decision as to whether a nuisance exists. If it finds that a nuisance exists,
it shall order it abated within an additional time which must be reasonable
under the circumstances.
   (E)   Payment of abatement costs. In instances where the city performs or
contracts for the performance of the physical actions necessary to abate a
nuisance, the city shall assess the expense of the abatement actions against
the relevant property owner. The city may place a lien on the real estate on
which the nuisance existed and/or may dispose of any personal property
constituting the nuisance in a commercially reasonable manner and keep any
proceeds to cover the aforesaid expense of abatement. If the disposal of the
personal property generates money in excess of the costs of abatement, the
excess money shall be returned to the property owner. In all these instances,
the city shall provide the property owner 48-hours’ advance written notice of
the intended physical actions to abate or remove a nuisance. This notice is
adequate if posted on the relevant real property. The city must provide an
accounting to the property owner, setting forth all relevant costs and
receipts. In addition to the remedies described herein, the city may pursue any
other remedy allowed by law against the property owner to recover the expenses
of the abatement.
(1986 Code, § 15-27) (Ord. 1992-02, passed 1-20-1992)
§ 131.17 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Action by city.  Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the city
possessing police powers, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates
an imminent threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to person or
real property, or if the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only
minor damage to the items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the
continuation of the nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or
property or a substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life
normally present in the community, the officer shall proceed to abate the
nuisance.
   (B)   Absentee owners. Whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in
possession, charge or control of the real or personal property which has become
a nuisance is unknown or cannot readily be found, the city officer with police
power may proceed to abate the nuisance without notice.
   (C)   Continuing nuisances. Where the abatement of the nuisance requires
continuing acts by the city beyond the initial summary abatement and any other
additional emergency abatements, it shall seek abatement of the nuisance on a
permanent basis through judicial process as soon as reasonably possible.
(1986 Code, § 15-28)
§ 131.18 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any other method authorized by law, if a property owner
is cited with a code violation under this article, requiring the removal of
garbage and debris, inoperable motor vehicles, or rodent and vermin abatement;
noncompliance is found upon reinspection of the property after the due date for
compliance with an order to correct the code violation or with an order for
abatement; costs for services rendered by the municipality to correct the code
violation remain unpaid; and a lien has been filed of record by the
municipality in the office of the Recorder, then those costs may be collected
as a special assessment on the property pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 9-2-
4.5.
   (B)   Upon payment of the costs by the owner of record or persons interested
in the property, the lien shall be released by the municipality and the release
shall be filed of record in the same manner as the filing of notice of the
lien.
(1986 Code, § 15-29) (Ord. 2007-17, passed 10-15-2007)
LOT MAINTENANCE
§ 131.30 MAINTAINING UNSIGHTLY PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain, or to permit to be maintained, an
unsightly yard or premises where there is an accumulation or deposit of any
wrecked or disabled vehicles, junk or waste of any nature.
(1986 Code, § 15-101) (Ord. 1985-26, passed 11-4-1985) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.31 KEEPING JUNK OR DEBRIS.
   It shall be unlawful to cause or to permit junk or debris of any nature to
be collected, deposited or kept upon any premises in such quantities and in
such condition as to foster the breeding, growth or spread of rodents or other
vermin.
(1986 Code, § 15-102) (Ord. 1985-26, passed 11-4-1985) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.32 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful to leave or scatter wastepaper, paper containers for
foodstuffs, bills, posters, lithographs, advertising matter, refuse, sweepings
or similar materials on the sidewalks, streets, alleys or public grounds of the
city.
(1986 Code, § 15-103) (Ord. 1985-26, passed 11-4-1985) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.33 TRASH PICKUP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, haul and/or remove household
or commercial refuse within the city limits between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
(1986 Code, § 15-16) (Ord. 1991-05, passed 3-4-1991) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.34 CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BEDDING. A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding
purposes.
      CAMPSITE. Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
      EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY. Items which would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this section, but which (i) have no apparent
utility or monetary value; (ii) personal property which is unsanitary to store
or otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
person and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt
personal property.
      PUBLIC CAMPING. To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the
act of remaining in or at, a campsite.
   (B)   Public camping prohibited.
      (1)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
      (2)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
      (3)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the city.
      (4)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the city for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in the vehicle.
      (5)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a vehicle on
any property under the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of public
camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the City Council,
Mayor or Police Chief, between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., shall be
considered a violation of this section.
   (C)   Exceptions to prohibition.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to
engage in public camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by
this code; (ii) after a formal declaration of the city in emergency
circumstances; or, (iii) upon resolution of the City Council, the same may
exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if the City
Council, Mayor or Police Chief finds such exemption to be in the public
interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the city, and with
such conditions imposed as the City Council deems necessary.
      (2)   Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the
applicant provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to
indemnify the city for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the city as
a result of the activities of the applicant. Any findings by the City Council
shall specify the exact dates and location covered by the exemption.
   (D)   Removal of campsite. Removal of a campsite in violation of this
section may occur under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Prior to removing a campsite, the city Police Department shall
cause the posting of a notice, 24-hours in advance of the removal, unless
immediate removal of the campsite is deemed to be necessary for one of the
reasons in divisions (D)(1)(a) through (d) below. If such immediate removal is
undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of such campsite should
be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
         (a)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain
access to a property;
         (b)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
         (c)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
         (d)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite poses a risk to the health and safety of the city and its residents.
      (2)   Upon any action pursuant to division (D)(1) above, the person
causing such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering
social services to homeless individuals in the city, of the location of the
campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this section, so the
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
      (3)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period
has passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal property thereon, shall
be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the city.
      (4)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any
person found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal
property from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes
exempt personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement
officer, exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that
the exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or
otherwise appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person
cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained
and stored as evidence.
   (E)   Disposition and release of personal property.
      (1)   All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the Troy Police Department, for a minimum
of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably available for and released
to an individual confirming ownership.
      (2)   All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the Troy Police Department.
   (F)   Penalty; mitigation.
      (1)   The penalty for any person's first violation of this section within
a rolling 24-month period shall be $75.
      (2)   The penalty for any person's second violation of this section
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $150.
      (3)   The penalty for any person's third violation of this section within
a rolling 24-month period shall be $350.
      (4)   The penalty for any person's fourth violation of this section
within a rolling 24-month period shall be $500.
      (5)   The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this section within
a rolling 24-month period shall be $750.
      (6)   The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
section within a rolling 24-month period may be a monetary penalty of $750 or
incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9.
      (7)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
divisions (F)(1) through (6) above, and if consented to by the city, the
penalty assessed to any person found in violation of this section may be that
the person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and
other public facilities of the city for an amount of time that, if the person
found to have violated this section was being paid the minimum wage under
Illinois law, the amount paid for that person's labors would have been equal to
the monetary penalty assessed under this section.
      (8)   The city is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this section, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of the person
for a period of time that conforms with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-9.
      (9)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the
penalty shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this section.
      (10)   A separate offense of this section shall be deemed committed on
each day on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (11)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this section,
any person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from
the premises where the campsite is located.
(Ord. 2024-47, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
131.30 through
131.32 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during or on
which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(1986 Code, § 15-104) (Ord. 1985-26, passed 11-4-1985)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Disorderly conduct
   
132.02   Disturbing assemblages
   
132.03   Mob action
Public Gatherings
   
132.15   Compliance
   
132.16   Notice to city; inspection of premises
   
132.17   Exits
   
132.18   Seats
   
132.19   Overcrowding
Loitering and Trespass
   
132.35   Loitering prohibited; acts enumerated
   
132.36   Ordering offending person to leave place of offense; failure to comply
with order
   
132.37   Prohibited acts of trespass
Cross-reference:
   Resisting or obstructing peace officer, see §
35.001
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit disorderly conduct in
the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a person commits disorderly conduct
when he or she knowingly does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to
alarm or disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace.
(1986 Code, § 15-12) (Ord. 1981-17, passed 8-17-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the city.
(1986 Code, § 15-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 MOB ACTION.
   (A)   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      (1)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
      (2)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      (3)   The assembly of two or more persons, without authority of law, for
the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of any one supposed to
have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in mob action as defined
in division (A) above.
(1986 Code, § 15-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1
PUBLIC GATHERINGS
§ 132.15 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to hold, manage or conduct any gathering or
entertainment of any kind in the city, except in compliance with the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any permit issued for any entertainment or gathering held pursuant to
this subchapter shall be subject to the condition that this subchapter be fully
complied with, whether or not the condition is embodied in the permit.
(1986 Code, § 15-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.16 NOTICE TO CITY; INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting, calling for or managing any
gathering or performance in any premises other than a theater, lodge room or
auditorium building constructed as provided in this subchapter, to notify the
City Clerk of the date of the intended gathering or performance at least ten
days before the meeting is to take place. The Chief of Police or the Building
Inspector shall inspect the premises no earlier than three days prior to the
date of the entertainment or gathering to determine whether or not it complies
with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1986 Code, § 15-42)
§ 132.17 EXITS.
   (A)   Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided in all premises used for
gatherings and entertainment to permit rapid egress of all persons attending.
There shall be at least two separate exits located at least 30 feet from each
other. There shall be two lineal feet of doorway or exit space for each 100
people accommodated.
   (B)   All doors or gates on exits from premises used for gatherings or
entertainment shall open outward, and no exit shall be so constructed or locked
so that egress from inside the premises is blocked.
(1986 Code, § 15-43)
§ 132.18 SEATS.
   Any stands or rows of seats in a premises used for gatherings or
entertainment shall be so constructed as to be safe for the use designed, and
shall be sufficiently strong to carry the weight and stress required for the
construction of the auditorium floors of theater buildings and in no case shall
they be less than 100 pounds per square foot.
(1986 Code, § 15-44)
§ 132.19 OVERCROWDING.
   It shall be unlawful to admit to any premises regulated by this subchapter a
number of persons exceeding the actual number of seats maintained for their
accommodation.
(1986 Code, § 15-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
LOITERING AND TRESPASS
§ 132.35 LOITERING PROHIBITED; ACTS ENUMERATED.
   No person shall loiter in a public place, whether public or private
property, in such a manner as to:
   (A)   Create or cause to be created a danger of a breach of peace;
   (B)   Create or cause to be created any disturbance or annoyance to the
comfort and repose of any person of reasonable sensibilities;
   (C)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles; or
   (D)   Obstruct, molest or interfere with any person lawfully in a public
place, including the making of unsolicited remarks of an offensive, disgusting,
obscene or insulting nature or which are calculated to annoy or disturb a
person of reasonable sensibilities.
(1986 Code, § 15-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.36 ORDERING OFFENDING PERSON TO LEAVE PLACE OF OFFENSE; FAILURE TO COMPLY
WITH ORDER.
   Whenever the presence of any person in any public place is causing or is
likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated in §
132.35, any police officer may order that person to leave that place. Any
person who shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by a police
officer shall be guilty of an offense.
(1986 Code, § 15-62)
§ 132.37 PROHIBITED ACTS OF TRESPASS.
   The following acts or conduct of any person in a public place, whether
public or privately owned, are hereby declared to be unlawful, and any person
found guilty of any of these acts shall be guilty of an offense:
   (A)   Entering property with any motor vehicle and parking the vehicle and
leaving the premises without the express consent of the owner or operator of
the property. Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be
subject to a parking citation or may be impounded subject to the impounding
charges established by the city;
   (B)   Entering property of another, in or upon a motor vehicle and using the
property for cruising, racing, as a shortcut to another street, or to annoy or
endanger any person or other vehicle lawfully or unlawfully on the property;
   (C)   For any person in the presence or hearing of another, to curse or
abuse the person or use any violently abusive language under circumstances
reasonably calculated to provoke a breach of the peace; and
   (D)   For three or more persons to congregate in a public place and loiter
therein as defined in §
132.35.
(1986 Code, § 15-63) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
Obscenity
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Sale, distribution and exhibition of sexually obscene material
   
133.03   Gross public display of sexually obscene material
   
133.04   Removal of sexually obscene material
   
133.05   Obscene live performances or exhibitions
   
133.06   Minors–purpose
   
133.07   Minors–definitions
   
133.08   Minors–selling or renting obscene material to
   
133.09   Minors–admission to shows
Controlled Substances
   
133.20   Cannabis defined
   
133.21   Possession of cannabis
   
133.22   Manufacture and delivery of cannabis
Drug Paraphernalia
   
133.35   Definition
   
133.36   Evidentiary factors in determining whether object constitutes drug
paraphernalia
   
133.37   Possession
   
133.38   Manufacture or delivery
   
133.39   Advertisement
   
133.40   Forfeiture
MDPV (Bath Salts)
   
133.50   Purpose
   
133.51   Definitions
   
133.52   General prohibitions
Mitragynine and 7-hydromitragynine (Kratom)
   
133.60   Purpose
   
133.61   Definitions
   
133.62   Controlled substances
   
133.63   Offenses and penalties
 
   
133.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Cannabis Control Act, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550 §§ 1 et seq.
   Controlled Substances Act, see Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 56-1/2, §§ 1106 et seq.
OBSCENITY
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meaning given in this section. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is
always mandatory and not merely directory.
   DISSEMINATED. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   GROSS PUBLIC DISPLAY. Exhibiting material that is visible on a billboard,
viewing screen, theater marquee, newsstand, display rack, window, showcase,
display case or other similar display area that is visible or audible, or both,
from a public street, sidewalk, park or other public place or from the property
of others.
   KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of or having reason to know or a belief
or reasonable grounds for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry
or both of the character and content of any material described herein which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material, or any device, picture, drawing, photograph, phonograph recording,
motion picture or other pictorial or sound representation, or combination
thereof.
   OBSCENE or SEXUALLY OBSCENE. Means that:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in
sex;
      (2)   The work depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, actual
or simulated acts of human sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals or sex organs; and
      (3)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PERSON.  Any individual, natural person, firm, partnership, co-partnership,
association, corporation or legal entity organization of any kind.
(1986 Code, § 15-110) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 133.02 SALE, DISTRIBUTION AND EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly send or cause to be sent, bring
or cause to be brought into the city, for sale or distribution, or in this city
to prepare, manufacture, sell, publish, print, exhibit, distribute or offer to
distribute or cause the same, or have in his or her possession with intent to
sell, distribute or have in his or her possession with intent to sell,
distribute or to exhibit or offer to distribute, or advertise, give notice,
supply information where, how, of whom or by what means possession, control or
use can be obtained or effectuated of any sexually obscene material.
(1986 Code, § 15-111) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.03 GROSS PUBLIC DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to prohibit the gross public display of
obscene material.
(1986 Code, § 15-112) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 133.04 REMOVAL OF SEXUALLY OBSCENE MATERIAL.
   No person shall knowingly fail to take prompt action to remove or abate any
gross public display of material which is sexually obscene, from property in
his or her possession or under his or her control.
(1986 Code, § 15-113) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.05 OBSCENE LIVE PERFORMANCES OR EXHIBITIONS.
   No person shall knowingly produce, manufacture or assist in any way to
produce or manufacture a sexually obscene live performance, stage play,
theatrical performance or exhibition, or engage another to do so; or to so
participate as a director, player, performer, actor, artist or otherwise in any
sexually obscene live performance, stage play, theatrical performance or
exhibition; nor shall any person knowingly present, exhibit, disseminate, show
or otherwise display or knowingly assist or engage others in any sexually
obscene live performance, stage play, theatrical performance or exhibition.
(1986 Code, § 15-114) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.06 MINORS–PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of §§
133.06 through
133.09 to regulate the direct distribution of materials which are sexually
obscene for young persons in order to aid parents in supervising and
controlling the access of children to the material.
(1986 Code, § 15-115) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 133.07 MINORS–DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
133.06 through
133.09, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS. The quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic
abuse, when it:
      (1)   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest
of minors, in sex; and
      (2)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors.
   KNOWINGLY. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
      (1)   The character and content of any material described herein which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      (2)   The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake
shall constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of the minor.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY.  The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a full opaque covering or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in
undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered,
bound or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one so clothed.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.  Acts of masturbation, homosexuality (including lesbianism),
sexual intercourse or physical contact with a person's clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or, if the person be a female, breast.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(1986 Code, § 15-116) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987)
§ 133.08 MINORS–SELLING OR RENTING OBSCENE MATERIAL TO.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or loan for monetary
consideration to a minor:
   (A)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film or
similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human
body, which depicts nudity, sado-masochistic abuse, sexual conduct or sexual
excitement and which is harmful to minors; or
   (B)   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in §
133.07, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of
sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and which, taken as
a whole, is harmful to minors.
(1986 Code, § 15-117) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.09 MINORS–ADMISSION TO SHOWS.
   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit for a monetary
consideration to a minor, or knowingly to sell to a minor an admission ticket
or pass, or knowingly to admit a minor for a monetary consideration to premises
whereon there is exhibited a motion picture, show, live exhibition or other
presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct or
sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors.
(1986 Code, § 15-118) (Ord. 1987-21, passed 9-8-1987) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
§ 133.20 CANNABIS DEFINED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the term CANNABIS includes marihuana,
hashish and other substances which are identified as including any parts of the
plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of the plant
which is incapable of germination.
(1986 Code, § 15-76) (Ord. 1980-16, passed 12-15-1980)
Statutory reference:
   Similar definitions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, § 3
§ 133.21 POSSESSION OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
and the Industrial Hemp Act, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
possess cannabis as defined in §
133.20.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to knowingly
possess cannabis as defined in §
133.20.
(1986 Code, § 15-77) (Ord. 1980-16, passed 12-15-1980; Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-
18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.22 MANUFACTURE AND DELIVERY OF CANNABIS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
and the Industrial Hemp Act, it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture,
cannabis as defined in §
133.20.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 to knowingly
manufacture, deliver, or possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture,
cannabis as defined in §
133.20.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-18-2020)
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 133.35 DEFINITION.
   (A)   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA is defined under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600, § 2(d).
(1986 Code, § 15-91) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 133.36 EVIDENTIARY FACTORS IN DETERMINING WHETHER OBJECT CONSTITUTES DRUG
PARAPHERNALIA.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   (C)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct violation
of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100; the
innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to direct
violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq. and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, §
100, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use or
designed for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   (G)   Instructions, oral or written provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (H)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   (L)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the objects
to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   (M)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
   (N)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(1986 Code, § 15-92)
§ 133.37 POSSESSION.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Industrial Hemp Act, it is unlawful for any person to use or to possess with
intent to use drug paraphernalia, or to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq., ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100, and ILCS Ch.
720, Act 600.
(1986 Code, § 15-93) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.38 MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Industrial Hemp Act, it is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with
intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under circumstances where
one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate,
cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest,
inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 550, §§ 1 et seq., ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 100,
and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 600.
(1986 Code, § 15-94) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.39 ADVERTISEMENT.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act and the
Industrial Hemp Act, it is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper,
magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement, knowing or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the purpose of the
advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects designed
or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(1986 Code, § 15-95) (Ord. 2020-05, passed 2-18-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.40 FORFEITURE.
   All drug paraphernalia shall be subject to forfeiture as provided in ILCS
Ch. 720, Act 550, § 12 and ILCS Ch. 720, Act 570, § 505.
(1986 Code, § 15-96)
MDPV (BATH SALTS)
§ 133.50 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the use,
possession, distribution or delivery or any substance containing MDPV as
hereinafter defined, it being the specific finding of the city that those
substances have a dangerous effect upon anyone using and/or ingesting the
substances and have no medicinal or beneficial purposes.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 133.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DELIVER. The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer from one person to
another of MDPV, whether or not there is an agency relationship and includes a
sale.
   DISTRIBUTE. To deliver other than by administering or dispensing MDPV.
   MDPV. Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing any
quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central
nervous system, including their salts, and salts of isomers of 3.4
Methylenedioxyprovalerone, Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-Methoxymethcathinone, 4-
Fluormethcathinine, and 3-Fluoromethcathinone.
   POSSESS. With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he or she has the substance on his or her person or within
easy reach and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual
possession, has the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or
control over the substance either directly or through another person or persons
is in constructive possession of it.
   USE. The partaking, inhaling, smoking, consumption, ingestion or injection
of MDPV.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 5-2-2011)
§ 133.52 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, distribute or deliver
any substance containing MDPV as defined in §
133.51 above.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 5-2-2011) Penalty, see §
133.99
MITRAGYNINE AND 7-HYDROMITRAGYNINE (KRATOM)
§ 133.60 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city by prohibiting the use,
possession, distribution or delivery or any substance containing mitragynine
and 7-hydroxymitragynine, also known as "Kratom".
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 133.61 DEFINITIONS.
   KRATOM: also known as MITRAGYNINE OR 7-HYDROXYMITRAGYNINE is a stimulant
generally produced from a tropical evergreen tree known as mitragyna speciosa.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 133.62 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   Krantom, mitragynine, and 7-hydroxymitragynine, are each hereby declared and
defined as a "controlled substance", as the term is used in this chapter and
this subchapter. Possession, use, or delivery of any of these controlled
substances, is hereby declared illegal and a violation of city ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 133.63 OFFENSES AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Possession of Kratom, mitgragynine, or 7-hydroxymitgagynine. It is
unlawful for any person to use, or to possess, manufacture, compound, convert,
produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain,
conceal, or inject any of said controlled substances in violation of this
subchapter. Any person who violates this section is guilty of an ordinance
violation and upon conviction may be fined not more than $750 nor less than
$25.
   (B)   Manufacture or deliver of Kratom, mitragynine, or 7-
hydroxymitragynine. It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, refine,
distill, purify, deliver, or possess with intent to deliver, any of said
controlled substances and is a violation of this subchapter to do so. Any
person who violates this section is guilty of an ordinance violation and upon
conviction may be fined not more than $750 nor less than $25.
   (C)   Delivery of Kratom, mitragynine, or 7-hydroxymitragynine to a minor.
Any person 18 years of age or over who violates division (B) of this section by
delivering any of said controlled substances to a person under 18 years of ages
is guilty of special offense and upon conviction may be fined not more than
$750 nor less than $25.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or entity violating §
133.52 shall be issued a citation and shall be subject to a fine of $750 plus
court costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees expended by the city to enforce this
provision. Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-05, passed 5-2-2011)
 CHAPTER 134: MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Abandonment of refrigerators or iceboxes in places accessible to
children
   
134.02   Curfew for minors
Use, Possession and Sale of Tobacco to Minors
   
134.15   Purpose and intent
   
134.16   Definitions
   
134.17   Unlawful acts
   
134.18   Use of tobacco and related products by minors prohibited
   
134.19   Possession of tobacco and related products by minors prohibited
   
134.20   Distribution of tobacco to minors prohibited
   
134.21   Distribution of tobacco accessories and smoking herbs to minors
prohibited
   
134.22   Unlawful distribution of tobacco by vending machines
   
134.23   Unlawful distribution of cigarette paper by vending machines
   
134.24   Unlawful use of identification cards
   
134.25   Warning signs
Regulation of Residences of Registered Sex Offenders
   
134.40   Definitions
   
134.41   Residential restrictions
   
134.42   Loitering restrictions and regulation of conduct
   
134.43   Lease of residential property
   
134.44   Measurement of distances
   
134.45   Exceptions
 
   
134.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
    Adult oriented businesses, see
Ch. 114
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 116
   Amusements, see
Ch. 113
   Obscene materials, see
Ch. 133
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01 ABANDONMENT OF REFRIGERATORS OR ICEBOXES IN PLACES ACCESSIBLE TO
CHILDREN.
   Whoever abandons or discards in any place accessible to children any
refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of one and one-half cubic feet
or more, which has an attached lid or door which may be opened or fastened shut
by means of an attached latch or who, being the owner, lessee or manager of the
place, knowingly permits the abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice
chest to remain there in that condition, shall be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor.
(1986 Code, § 15-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 430, Act 150, § 1
§ 134.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person less than 17 years of age to be present
at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway within the
city at the following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent,
legal guardian or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age approved
by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or occupation
which state law authorizes a person less than 17 years of age to perform:
      (1)   Between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between the hours of 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday,
inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on the following day.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit any person in his or her custody or control to violate the
provisions of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   The minimum fines for violations occurring within any 12-month period,
of either division (A) or (B) of this section, shall be as follows: for a first
offense, $50; for a second offense, $150; for a third or subsequent offense,
$500.
(1986 Code, § 15-11) (Ord. 1981-20, passed 9-8-1981; Ord. 1989-01, passed 1-3-
1989)
USE, POSSESSION AND SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS
§ 134.15 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   When interpreting the purpose, terms or intent of this subchapter,
consideration shall be given to other laws which have been adopted regulating
tobacco and related products.
   (B)   These laws include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Critical Health Problems and Comprehensive Health Education Act,
ILCS Ch. 105, Act 110, § 1;
      (2)   Illinois School Code, ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, §§ 10-20.5b and 34-
18.11;
      (3)   Child Care Act of 1969, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 10, § 5.5;
      (4)   Illinois Clean Indoor Act;
      (5)   Smokeless Tobacco Outdoor Advertising Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 75, §
0.01;
      (6)   Cigarette Health Warning Act, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 85, § 1;
      (7)   Sale of Tobacco to Minors Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 675, § 0.01;
      (8)   Smokeless Tobacco Limitation Act, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 680, § 1;
Editor’s note:
   ILCS Ch. 720, Act 680, § 1 was repealed by P.A. 101-2, eff. 7-1-2019
      (9)   Tobacco Accessories and Smoking Herbs Control Act, ILCS Ch. 720,
Act 685, § 1; and
      (10)   Illinois Municipal Code, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-20-3 and 11-20-
5.
(1986 Code, § 15-120) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 134.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGARETTE PAPER. Shall not include any paper that is incorporated into a
product to which a tax stamp must be affixed under the Cigarette Tax Act, being
ILCS Ch. 35, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq., or the Cigarette Use Tax Act, being ILCS Ch.
35, Act 135, §§ 1 et seq.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical device used or intended to be used
for retail sales of cigarettes or other tobacco products, the operation of
which is governed or controlled by the deposit of currency in coin, or a token.
   DISTRIBUTION. Shall include sale, buy for, distribute or furnish, whether
for charge, without charge or at a nominal cost; the term DISTRIBUTION shall
also include sell, barter, exchange, deliver or give away or cause or permit or
procure to be sold, bartered, exchanged, delivered or given away.
   SMOKELESS TOBACCO. Any finely cut, ground, powdered or leaf tobacco that is
intended to be placed in the oral cavity; it also means any tobacco products
that are suitable for dipping or chewing; it also means any loose, cut,
shredded, ground, powdered, compressed or leaf tobacco that is intended to be
placed in the mouth without being smoked.
   SMOKING HERBS. All substances of plant origin and their derivatives,
including but not limited to broom calea, California poppy, damiana, hops,
ginseng, lobelia, jimson weed and other members of the Datura genus, passion
flower and wild lettuce, which are processed or sold primarily for use as
smoking materials.
   TOBACCO ACCESSORIES. Cigarette papers, pipes, holders of smoking materials
of all types, cigarette rolling machines and other items, designed primarily
for the smoking or ingestion of tobacco products or of substances made illegal
under any statute or of substances whose sale, gift, barter or exchange is made
unlawful.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Cigarettes, cigars, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of
its forms.
(1986 Code, § 15-121) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 134.17 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   The actions described in §§
134.18 through
134.24 are unlawful.
(1986 Code, § 15-122) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.18 USE OF TOBACCO AND RELATED PRODUCTS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No minor under 18 years of age shall use, in any form or in any manner, any
tobacco, tobacco products or smoking herbs at any time within the corporate
limits of the city.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.1) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 134.19 POSSESSION OF TOBACCO AND RELATED PRODUCTS BY MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No minor under 18 years of age shall possess, in any form or in any manner,
any tobacco, tobacco products or smoking herbs within the corporate limits of
the city.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.2) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 134.20 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly distribute any tobacco or tobacco products to a
minor under 18 years of age.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.3) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.21 DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO ACCESSORIES AND SMOKING HERBS TO MINORS
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall knowingly distribute any tobacco accessories or smoking
herbs to a minor under 18 years of age.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.4) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.22 UNLAWFUL DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO BY VENDING MACHINES.
   No person may sell or permit the sale of tobacco products through a vending
machine, except where the vending machine is placed in the following locations:
   (A)   Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs and other places not
open to the general public;
   (B)   Places to which minors under 18 years of age are not permitted access;
   (C)   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises;
   (D)   Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision of
the owner of the establishment or an employee over 18 years of age. The sale of
tobacco products from a vending machine under direct supervision of the owner
or an employee of the establishment is considered a sale of tobacco products by
that person. As used in this section, DIRECT SUPERVISION means that the owner
or employee has an unimpeded line of sight to the vending machine; or
   (E)   Places where the vending machine can only be operated by the owner or
an employee over age 18 either directly or through a remote control device if
the device is inaccessible to all customers.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.5) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996)
§ 134.23 UNLAWFUL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTE PAPER BY VENDING MACHINES.
   No person shall distribute cigarette paper by use of a vending or coin-
operated machine or device.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.6) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.24 UNLAWFUL USE OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   No person in the furtherance or facilitation of obtaining tobacco, tobacco
products, smoking accessories, tobacco accessories or smoking herbs shall
display or use a false or forged identification card; nor shall any person
transfer, alter or deface an identification card for these purposes.
(1986 Code, § 15-122.7) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.25 WARNING SIGNS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person not to post, display and maintain the
warning signs required by the Cigarette Warning Act, being ILCS Ch. 410, Act
85, §§ 1 et seq., or the Tobacco Accessories and Smoking Herbs Control Act,
being ILCS Ch. 720, Act 685, §§ 1 et seq.
   (B)   The text size and display requirements for these signs are set forth
in the state laws described above. The Cigarette Health Warning Act generally
contains a warning of the health consequences of smoking and requires that
those signs be placed either on vending machines or within the retail
establishment. The Tobacco Accessories and Smoking Herbs Control Act requires
signs warning minors that sale of these products to minors is prohibited.
(1986 Code, § 15-123) (Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
REGULATION OF RESIDENCES OF REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS
§ 134.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD SEX OFFENDER. Includes any person defined as a child sex offender or
sexual predator and child sex offender under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 134.41 RESIDENTIAL RESTRICTIONS.
   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to reside within the limits
prescribed under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 and/or ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.42 LOITERING RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATION OF CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any child sex offender to be present at or to loiter on
any property prohibited under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 and/or ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150,
or to participate in or conduct any activity prohibited under ILCS Ch. 720, Act
5 and/or ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.43 LEASE OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, business, partnership, trust,
manager or other entity, to knowingly enter into a lease agreement or to
knowingly renew any lease agreement, letting residential real estate to a child
sex offender, where the lot line of the residential property is within an area
prohibited under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 and/or ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.44 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCES.
   All distances designated in this subchapter shall be measured in the manners
prescribed under ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 and/or ILCS Ch. 730, Act 150.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010; Ord. 2019-11, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 134.45 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter prohibits a child sex offender from residing
within 1,500 feet of any property, if that residence is owned or leased by the
child sex offender before the effective date of this subchapter. This
subchapter is intended to apply to and prevent such ownership of residences,
new residential lease agreements and renewals of expired residential leases,
entered into after the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010)
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §§
134.15 through
134.25 shall be fined not less than $50 for each offense, with the maximum fine
to be determined by law.
(1986 Code, § 15-124)
   (C)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
134.41,
134.42 or
134.43 shall be subject to a fine of between $100 and $750, with each day a
violation continues constituting a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person, corporation, business, partnership, trust, manager or
other entity guilty of violating §
134.43 shall be subject to a fine of between $100 and $750, revocation of
business license, or both. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense. Any person, corporation, business, partnership, trust,
manager or other entity violating §
134.43 shall be presumed to have had knowledge of the tenant's status as a
child sex offender, where that tenant's name, photo or other identifying
information appears on the Illinois State Police statewide sex offender
database, as published on the internet on the Illinois State Police World Wide
Web home page, per the Sex Offender and Child Murderer Community Notification
Law, ILCS Ch. 730, Act 152, §§ 101 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
(Ord. 1996-36, passed 11-4-1996; Ord. 2010-04, passed 1-19-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   PLANNING IN GENERAL
      
151.   BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
153.   SUBDIVISION CODE
      
154.   ZONING ORDINANCE
      
155.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
156.   STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION, SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
      
157.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: PLANNING IN GENERAL
Section
Plans Adopted
   
150.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted
   
150.02   Town Center Business District Plan adopted
   
150.03   Town Center Business District established
   
150.04   Dorothy Drive Business District Plan adopted
   
150.05   Dorothy Drive Business District established
   
150.06   Troy Business District III Plan approved and established
   
150.07   Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan adopted
General Regulations
   
150.20   Annexation plat required with petition for annexation
Cross-reference:
   Historic Preservation, see §§
33.80 through
33.90
   Planning Commission, see
Ch. 33
Statutory reference:
   Business District Act, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.3-1 et seq.
PLANS ADOPTED
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The Comprehensive Plan, together with all maps and exhibits attached to
Ordinance 2019-03 as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted as the official Comprehensive
Plan for the city.
(Ord. 2009-22, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 2019-03, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 2024-64,
passed 12-16-2024)
§ 150.02 TOWN CENTER BUSINESS DISTRICT PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds and determines as follows:
      (1)   The Business District Plan constitutes a specific plan for the
Business District;
      (2)   The designation of the Business District identified in the Business
District Plan, being legally described on Exhibit A and depicted on Exhibit B,
which exhibits are attached to Ordinance 2005-03 and incorporated by reference
in this section, as a Business District assures opportunities for development
and redevelopment and attracting sound and stable commercial growth;
      (3)   The Business District Plan conforms to the city’s Comprehensive
Plan;
      (4)   The real property comprising the Business District is contiguous
and includes only those parcels directly and substantially benefitted by the
Business District Plan;
      (5)   Upon consideration of the blight analysis, as it applies to the
Business District, and the Business District Plan, the Business District is a
“blighted area” in accordance with the Business District Act, being ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, that, by reason of the predominance of defective or
inadequate street layout, unsanitary or unsafe conditions, deterioration of
site improvements, improper subdivision or obsolete platting, or the existence
of conditions which endanger life or property by fire or other causes, or any
combination of these factors, constitutes an economic and social liability and
a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare of the city;
      (6)   The Business District on the whole has not been subject to growth
and development through investment by private enterprises or would not have
reasonably been anticipated to be developed or redeveloped without the adoption
of the Business District Plan;
      (7)   The Business District Plan includes the following elements required
by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-5(4) of the Business District Act being, ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3:
         (a)   A specific description of the proposed boundaries of the
Business District, including a map illustrating the boundaries, which is
attached to Ordinance 2005-03 as Exhibit B;
         (b)   A general description of each project proposed to be undertaken
with the Business District;
         (c)   The name of the Business District;
         (d)   The estimated project costs for the Business District
Redevelopment Project;
         (e)   The anticipated source of funds to pay the anticipated project
costs;
         (f)   The anticipated type and term of any obligations to be issued;
and
         (g)   The rate of any tax to be imposed and the period of time for
which the tax shall be imposed.
      (8)   The city’s exercise of the powers provided in the Business District
Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, is dedicated to the promotion of the
public interest and to the enhancement of the tax base of the Business
District, and the city’s use of the powers for the development and
redevelopment of the Business District as provided in the Business District
Plan is a public use essential to the public interest.
   (B)   The Business District Plan, attached to Ordinance 2005-03 as Exhibit C
and incorporated by reference in this section, is hereby adopted as the city’s
specific plan for the Business District.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 2-7-2005)
§ 150.03 TOWN CENTER BUSINESS DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The City Council hereby finds and determines as follows:
      (1)   The designation of the Business District identified in the Business
District Plan, being legally described on Exhibit A and depicted on Exhibit B,
which exhibits are attached to and incorporated by reference in Ordinance 2005-
02 and amended by Ordinance 2005-18, as a business district assures
opportunities for development and redevelopment and attracting sound and stable
commercial growth;
      (2)   The real property comprising the Business District is contiguous
and includes only those parcels directly and substantially benefitted by the
Business District Plan;
      (3)   Upon consideration of the blight analysis, as it applies to the
Business District, and the Business District Plan, the Business District is a
“blighted area” in accordance with the Business District Act, being ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, that, by reason of the predominance of defective or
inadequate street layout, unsanitary or unsafe conditions, deterioration of
site improvements, improper subdivision or obsolete platting, or the existence
of conditions which endanger life or property by fire or other causes, or any
combination of these factors, constitutes an economic and social liability and
a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare of the city;
      (4)   The Business District on the whole has not been subject to growth
and development through investment by private enterprises or would not have
reasonably been anticipated to be developed or redeveloped without the adoption
of the Business District Plan; and
      (5)   The city’s exercise of the powers provided in the Business District
Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, is dedicated to the promotion of the
public interest and to the enhancement of the tax base of the Business
District, and the city’s use of those powers for the development and
redevelopment of the Business District as provided in the Business District
Plan is a public use essential to the public interest.
   (B)   The Business District is hereby designated as a “business district” in
accordance with the Business District Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3.
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-7-2005; Ord. 2005-18, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 150.04 DOROTHY DRIVE BUSINESS DISTRICT PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   Findings. The corporate authorities hereby make the following
findings.
      (1)   The boundaries of the proposed Dorothy Drive Business District are
set forth in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2005-23 and incorporated herein as
if set out in full by this reference. The map of the proposed Dorothy Drive
Business District is depicted on Exhibit B attached to Ordinance 2005-23 and
incorporated herein as if set out in full by this reference.
      (2)   By reason of the predominance of defective or inadequate street
layout, unsanitary or unsafe conditions, deterioration of site improvements,
improper subdivision or obsolete platting, or the existence of conditions which
endanger life or property by fire or other cause, or any combination of these
factors, the proposed Dorothy Drive Business District is “blighted” under the
Business District Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3, and retards the
provision of housing accommodations, and constitutes an economic and a social
liability and a menace to the public health, safety, morals and welfare in its
present condition and use.
      (3)   The proposed Dorothy Drive Business District on the whole has not
been subject to growth and development through investment by private
enterprises, and would not reasonably be anticipated to be developed or
redeveloped without the adoption of the Dorothy Drive Business District Plan.
      (4)   The Dorothy Drive Business District Plan conforms to the
Comprehensive Plan for the development of the city as a whole.
      (5)   As set forth in the Dorothy Drive Business District Plan and in the
testimony at the hearings, the estimated date of the retirement of all
obligations incurred to finance Business District project costs as defined in
the Dorothy Drive Business District Plan is not later than September 19, 2028,
being the date which is 23 years after the date on which this section is
adopted.
      (6)   The parcels of real property in the proposed Dorothy Drive Business
District are contiguous, and only those contiguous parcels of real property and
improvements thereon which will be directly and substantially benefitted by the
proposed Dorothy Drive Business District Plan are included in the proposed
Dorothy Drive Business District.
   (B)   Plan approved; exhibits incorporated by reference.  The Dorothy Drive
Business District Plan which was the subject matter of the hearings is hereby
adopted and approved. A copy of the Dorothy Drive Business District Plan is set
forth in Exhibit C attached to Ordinance 2005-23 and incorporated herein as if
set out in full by this reference.
   (C)   Other actions. The Mayor, the City Clerk and the proper officers,
officials, agents and employees of the city are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
and certificates as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of and to further the purposes and intent of this section, including
the preamble to Ordinance 2005-23.
(Ord. 2005-23, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 150.05 DOROTHY DRIVE BUSINESS DISTRICT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   District established. The Dorothy Drive Business District, as
described in Exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2005-24 and incorporated herein as
if set out in full by this reference, is hereby established as a business
district pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-5 of the Business District
Act, being ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3. The map of the Dorothy Drive Business
District is depicted on Exhibit B attached to Ordinance 2005-24 and
incorporated herein as if set out in full by this reference.
   (B)   Other actions. The Mayor, the City Clerk and the proper officers,
officials, agents and employees of the city are hereby authorized, empowered
and directed to do all such acts and things and to execute all such documents
and certificates as may be necessary to carry out and comply with the
provisions of and to further the purposes and intent of this section, including
the preamble to Ordinance 2005-24.
(Ord. 2005-24, passed 9-19-2005)
§ 150.06 TROY BUSINESS DISTRICT III PLAN APPROVED AND ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city hereby makes the following findings as supported by the
Business District Plan:
      (1)   The Business District, on the whole, has not been subject to growth
and development through investment by private enterprise or would not
reasonably be anticipated to be developed without the adoption of the Business
District Development Plan;
      (2)   The Business District Plan conforms to the comprehensive plan for
the development of the city as a whole; and
      (3)   The Business District is a blighted area due to the presence,
individually and in combination, of several conditions representative of those
outlined in the Act. These include:
         (a)   Defective, non-existent, or inadequate street layout.
         (b)   Existence of conditions which endanger property
         (c)   Deterioration of site improvements.
         (d)   Improper subdivision or obsolete platting.
      (4)   Thus, the District is found to be eligible, as it represents a
blighted portion of the City of Troy by reason of the existence of defective,
non-existent, or inadequate street layout, the existence of conditions which
endanger property, the deterioration of site improvements, and the improper
subdivision or obsolete platting. These factors, in combination, contribute to
the economic underutilization of the area, as well as cause the area to be an
economic liability to the city. Additionally, the property in the District
would not be reasonably anticipated to be developed or without the
establishment of the Troy Business District III and adoption of the Troy
Business District III Plan.
   (B)   Approval of the District Plan. The Business District Plan, a copy of
which is attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by this reference, is hereby approved.
   (C)   Establishment of the Business District. The Business District is
hereby established pursuant to the Business District Plan and the Business
District Law. The boundaries of the Business District are legally described in
Appendix A of the Business District Plan and depicted in Exhibit A of the
Business District Plan, which legal description and depiction are incorporated
herein by this reference. The Business District includes two parcels of real
property which are directly and substantially benefitted by the Business
District Plan. The City Council shall have and possess, without limitation,
such powers with respect to the Business District as authorized under the
Business District Law and the Business District Plan.
   (D)   Imposition of Business District taxes.
      (1)   A Business District retailers’ occupation tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property,
other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an
agency of the State of Illinois, at retail within the Business District at the
rate of 1.00% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business; and a Business District service occupation tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged, in the Business District, in the business of making sales
of service, at the rate of 1.00% of the selling price of all tangible personal
property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service.
This “Business District retailers’ occupation tax” and this “Business District
service occupation tax” shall not be applicable to the sale of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics, for human use.
      (2)   An occupation tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel, as defined in the
Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, at a rate of 1.00% of the gross rental
receipts from the renting, leasing, or letting of hotel rooms within the
Business District, excluding, however, from gross rental receipts the proceeds
of renting, leasing, or letting to permanent residents of a hotel, as defined
in the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, and proceeds from the tax imposed
under subsection (c) of Section 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition
Authority Act.
      (3)   The taxes imposed pursuant to divisions (D)(1) and (2) of this
section shall be for the planning, execution and implementation of the Business
District Plan and to pay for business district project costs as set forth in
the Business District Plan, including payment of bonds, notes or other
obligations (the “obligations”) issued to finance such business district
project costs. These taxes shall be in full force and effect until the earlier
of (i) payment of all obligations in accordance with the Business District
Plan, or (ii) the dissolution date (as such term is defined in the Business
District Law) of the Business District.
      (4)   The imposition of these Business District taxes is in accordance
with the provisions of subsections (b), (c) and (d), respectively, of § 11-
74.3-6 of the Business District Law (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6(b), (c),
and (d)).
      (5)   The taxes imposed pursuant to division (D)(1) of this section and
all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be
collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois.
The Department of Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce such
provisions of this section. The taxes imposed pursuant to division (D)(2) of
this section and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the city. The city shall have full
power to administer and enforce such provisions of this section.
   (E)   Business District Tax Allocation Fund. The city hereby establishes the
Troy Business District III Tax Allocation Fund in the custody of the City
Treasurer and each distribution of taxes imposed by this section to the city
from the Department of Revenue shall be deposited in such fund for the purpose
of paying or reimbursing business district project costs and obligations
incurred in the payment of the costs.
(Ord. 2017-22, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 150.07 BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN MASTER PLAN ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the Bicycle and Pedestrian Plan, dated June 2022, to
improve and enhance the City of Troy's pedestrian and bike trail network.
(Res. 2022-28, passed 6-20-2022)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.20 ANNEXATION PLAT REQUIRED WITH PETITION FOR ANNEXATION.
   Before the city will take final action to adopt an ordinance which annexes
any tract of land to the city, the persons who have petitioned the city to
annex that tract of land must submit to the city an annexation plat of the
tract of land which has been prepared by a land surveyor who is registered in
the state.
(1986 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 1988-36, passed 12-19-1988)
Cross-reference:
   Mandatory completion of subdivision components, see §
151.024
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Adoption of Building Codes; conflicting provisions; saving clause
   
151.002   Enforcement generally
   
151.003   Tracts of land to be staked
   
151.004   Maintenance of construction sites
   
151.005   Landscaping of commercial and multi-family buildings
   
151.006   Construction and excavation near high pressure petroleum pipelines
   
151.007   Successor of utility service; notification to city
Building Code
   
151.020   Adoption of International Building Code; penalties
   
151.021   Amendments to Building Code
   
151.022   Fees
   
151.023   Mobile home initial location, building permit required
   
151.024   Mandatory completion of subdivision improvements; effect on building
permits
   
151.025   Streets to be completed prior to issuance of permit; exception
   
151.026   Refunds
Electricity
   
151.040   Electrical facilities
   
151.041   200 amps required
International Residential Code
   
151.055   Adopted
   
151.056   Amendments
International Property Maintenance Code
   
151.070   Adopted
   
151.071   Amendments
International Fire Code
   
151.085   Adoption
   
151.086   Amendments
International Fuel Gas Code
   
151.100   Adoption
   
151.101   Amendments
International Mechanical Code
   
151.115   Adoption
   
151.116   Amendments
Plumbing
   
151.130   Certification that plumbing work conforms to the Illinois Plumbing
Code
Construction of Post-Frame Buildings
   
151.145   Definitions
   
151.146   Minimum specifications for construction of a post-frame building
   
151.147   Foundation
   
151.148   Framing for both post-frame buildings for use for human occupancy and
post-frame buildings for storage only
   
151.149   Siding, roofing and trim
   
151.150   Entrance doors
   
151.151   Windows
   
151.152   Insulation
   
151.153   Permitted zoning use
   
151.154   Repeal of Building Code provisions
Swimming Pool and Spa Code
   
151.165   Adoption
   
151.166   Amendments
Rental Housing Registration
   
151.170   Introduction; purpose
   
151.171   Definitions
   
151.172   Registration of rental housing required
   
151.173   Updating registration at changes in ownership
   
151.174   Initial occupancy permit
   
151.175   Occupancy permit application and fees
   
151.176   Violation of registration provisions
   
151.177   Complaints
   
151.178   Exemptions
   
151.179   Inspection
   
151.180   Remedial action
   
151.181   Temporary occupancy permit
   
151.182   Occupancy permit; issuance
   
151.183   Occupancy permit; revocation
   
151.184   Effective date
 
   
151.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
Statutory reference:
   Building regulations, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-4
   Electricity, see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-37
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODES; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; SAVING CLAUSE.
   (A)   The Building Codes of the City of Troy, Illinois shall consist of the
following which are incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as though
fully set out herein, and are hereby adopted (collectively, the “City Codes”):
      (1)   The 2012 International Building Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.020 through
151.026, is hereby adopted as the “Building Code of the City of Troy, Illinois”
(the “Building Code”);
      (2)   The 2005 National Electrical Code, published by the National Fire
Protection Association, Inc., including the amendments prescribed in §§
151.040 and
151.041, is hereby adopted as the “Electrical Code of the City of Troy,
Illinois” (the “Building Code”);
      (3)   The 2012 International Residential Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.055 and
151.056, is hereby adopted as the “Residential Code of the City of Troy,
Illinois” (the “Residential Code”);
      (4)   The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.070 and
151.071 is hereby adopted as the “Property Maintenance Code of the City of
Troy, Illinois” (the “Property Maintenance Code”);
      (5)   The 2012 International Fire Code, published by the International
Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in §§
151.085 and
151.086, is hereby adopted as the “Fire Code of the City of Troy, Illinois”
(the “Fire Code”);
      (6)   The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.100 and
151.101, is hereby adopted as the “Fuel Gas Code of the City of Troy, Illinois”
(the “Fuel Gas Code”);
      (7)   The 2012 International Mechanical Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.115 and
151.116, is hereby adopted as the “Mechanical Code of the City of Troy,
Illinois” (the “Mechanical Code”); and
      (8)   The 2012 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, published by the
International Code Council, Inc. et al., including the amendments prescribed in
§§
151.165 and
151.166, is hereby adopted as the “Swimming Pool and Spa Code of the City of
Troy, Illinois” (the “Swimming Pool and Spa Code”).
   (B)   In the event of a conflict between the requirements set forth in
Ordinance 2013-09 and the 2012 International Codes, the provisions of Ordinance
2013-09 shall be deemed to control and the Building Inspector shall have the
authority to interpret provisions of the International Codes to coordinate with
the requirements set forth in Ordinance 2013-09. In the event of an
irreconcilable conflict between the provisions of Ordinance 2013-09 and the
2012 International Codes, the Building Inspector shall have the authority to
approve the equivalent construction or alternative methods of construction in
the manner provided for in the 2012 International Codes.
   (C)   Saving clause: nothing in this section or in the International Codes
hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in
any court, or any rights acquired or liability incurred, or any cause or causes
of action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed by
this section; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this section.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.002 ENFORCEMENT GENERALLY.
   The Building Inspector of the city shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and is hereby designated as the “Code Official” as referenced in the
city codes.
(1986 Code, § 7-1) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-
2001; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 151.003 TRACTS OF LAND TO BE STAKED.
   Survey stakes shall be placed marking the boundaries of any tracts of land
on which construction is being engaged for which building permits have been
issued within the city so as to enable the building inspectors to determine
compliance with setback lines.
(1986 Code, § 7-2) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.004 MAINTENANCE OF CONSTRUCTION SITES.
   (A)   Dumpsters.
      (1)   Each building construction site shall have on-site a construction
dumpster of sufficient capacity to contain the construction debris generated by
the construction activity on the site. However, up to three residential
construction sites may share one construction dumpster of sufficient capacity
if all three sites are adjacent.
      (2)   All construction debris from each building construction site shall
be placed in the construction site dumpster(s) by the end of each work day.
      (3)   Each construction site dumpster, having been filled, shall be
removed from the construction site and where appropriate, replaced with another
empty dumpster until such time as construction debris is no longer generated on
the site.
   (B)   Rocked driveways.
      (1)   Each commercial construction site or subdivision construction site
entrance shall have its driveway or roadway (as delineated on the building
permit application site plan) rocked with CA3 (three-inch minimum) to a minimum
depth of six inches. This division may not be required if the permanent paved
driveway or entry road is in place and can be used by all construction
equipment or delivery vehicles.
      (2)   Each residential building construction site shall have its driveway
(as delineated on the building permit application site plan) rocked with CA6 to
a minimum depth of three inches.
      (3)   Rock drives or roadways must be constructed and maintained on
stable soil in order to maintain the desired intent or the rock shall be
replaced and/or soil stabilization may be required, as directed by the Code
Official.
      (4)   All deliveries of building materials, of all kinds, shall be made
using the rocked road or driveway, without exception.
   (C)   Sanitary facilities. Each building construction site shall provide
sanitary facilities (including toileting and hand washing facilities) for the
convenience of all workers and shall be discharged into a sanitary sewer or if
the facility is portable, it shall be an enclosed, chemically-treated tank
tight unit. All non-sewered units shall be pumped regularly to assure adequate
working and sanitary facilities.
   (D)   Responsibility.  It shall be the responsibility of the permit holder
and any individual or company acting under the direction of the permit holder
to ensure compliance with all provisions of this section.
(1986 Code, § 7-3) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-
2006)
§ 151.005 LANDSCAPING OF COMMERCIAL AND MULTI-FAMILY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a building permit for the construction of a
commercial or multi-family building, the person applying for the permit shall
submit landscaping plans for the land upon which the building is to be located.
   (B)   The plans required by division (A) of this section shall provide for a
minimum of 20% of the gross off-street parking and vehicular use areas to be
landscaped, it being the intent of the city that the implementation of the plan
will protect and preserve the appearance, character and value of surrounding
properties.
   (C)   The plan submitted pursuant to this section shall be approved or
disapproved by the Director of Public Works. If it is disapproved, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7-4) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 1995-16, passed 5-16-
1995; Ord. 2012-10, passed 8-6-2012)
§ 151.006 CONSTRUCTION AND EXCAVATION NEAR HIGH PRESSURE PETROLEUM PIPELINES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any building or other
structures (including a street) any part of which is within the right-of-way of
any underground high pressure petroleum pipeline.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any excavation, regardless
of the size thereof, within the right-of-way of any underground high pressure
petroleum pipeline without having first obtained permission/approval from the
owner of the pipeline.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a street over, or
within the right-of-way of, any underground high pressure petroleum pipeline
without first having obtained approval from the owner to construct that street.
Before any person constructs a street over an underground high pressure
petroleum pipeline, he or she shall cause that portion of the pipeline which
will be below the street to be improved/upgraded per the specifications
required by the owner of the high pressure petroleum pipeline.
(1986 Code, § 7-6) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-
2001) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007 SUCCESSOR OF UTILITY SERVICE; NOTIFICATION TO CITY.
   (A)   For any month when there is a change of user of residential (rate 001)
or non-residential (rate 043) electric service within the city, Ameren Illinois
Company shall notify the Building and Zoning Department of the changes,
indicating the address and apartment or unit number in whose name the service
is connected or billed.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty provided in
this code.
   (C)   Ameren Illinois shall submit annually to the city an invoice for its
costs associated with this section. The initial cost of this service will be
$150 payable to Ameren Illinois and shall not exceed $150. Future price
increases, if any, will only reflect the actual costs incurred by Ameren
Illinois to provide this service. The city shall pay Ameren Illinois the amount
of the invoice within 30 days of receipt.
   (D)   The ordinance codified herein shall be in full force and effect from
and after is passage, approval, and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-4-2011) Penalty, see §
151.999
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.020 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of
the Building and Zoning Department, being marked and designated as the
International Building Code, 2012 edition, including Appendix chapters, as
published by the International Code Council be and is hereby adopted as the
Building Code of the city, for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures; by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use; the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for
human occupancy and use and the demolition of such structures as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate a provision of this Building Code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of any approved
plan or directive of the Building Official, or of a permit or certificate
issued under the provisions of the Building Code, shall be guilty of a civil
offense punishable by a fine as set forth in §
151.999.
   (C)   Any person who shall continue any work in or about a structure after
having been served with a stop work order under this Building Code, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
conditions, shall be liable to a fine as set forth in §
151.999.
   (D)   The provisions for fines as described above are cumulative to any
other remedies available by law or equity.
(1986 Code, § 7-26) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 1993-28, passed 10-4-
1993; Ord. 1997-08, passed 3-17-1997; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5- 21-2001; Ord.
2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013–09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021 AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The following sections of the 2012 International Building Code are
revised and amended as follows:
      Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy, Illinois”
for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence, “The term
“jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of Troy,
Illinois.
   (B)   The following sections of the 2012 International Building Code are
hereby deleted:
      (1)   Section 113 Means of Appeal is deleted in its entirety.
      (2)   Subsection 1809.12 Timber Footings; Subsection 1810.3.2.4 Timber;
and Subsection 1810.3.2.4.1 Preservative Treatment are deleted in their
entirety.
      (3)   Table 1810.3.2.6 Item #6 Timber is deleted in its entirety.
      (4)   Appendix H is deleted in its entirety.
(1986 Code, § 7-26.1) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 1991-14, passed 7-
15-1991; Ord. 1991-18, passed 9-16-1991; Ord. 1992-09, passed 3-16-1992; Ord.
1992-29, passed 9-8-1992; Ord. 1993-28, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 1997-08, passed
3-17-1997; Ord. 1998-32, passed 12-7-1998; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-2001; Ord.
2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.022 FEES.
   The fees for services in connection with the Building Code adopted by §
151.020 shall be as established by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7-28) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.023 MOBILE HOME INITIAL LOCATION, BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Requirement that the owner of a mobile home obtain a building permit before
initially locating, or relocating, the mobile home within the city.
   (A)   The term MOBILE HOME, as used in this section, has the meaning defined
for it in §
152.001.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of this code, or of the BOCA
National Building Code, to the contrary, the owner of a mobile home shall apply
for and obtain a building permit from the city before initially locating, or
relocating, that mobile home within the city.
      (2)   This requirement shall apply regardless of whether the mobile home
is to be placed upon a permanent foundation.
   (C)   The basic fee for a building permit for the initial locating, or for
the relocating, of a mobile home within the city, shall be $75, regardless of
whether the mobile home is to be placed upon a permanent foundation. The basic
fee shall be considered to be for the city’s cost of inspecting the mobile
home’s plumbing, plumbing hookups, electrical hookup, tie-downs and skirting.
   (D)   If the mobile home is placed on a foundation which must be inspected
or, if the mobile home or the land on which it is located contains any
improvements, accessories, garages or outbuildings which require inspections
beyond those covered by the basic fee of $75, additional fees for those
inspections shall be charged in accordance with the schedule of fees set forth
in the city’s Ordinance 1987-17, adopted in
Chapter 37 Appendix, and in any amendatory or successor ordinances thereto. In
no event, however, shall the total fee, including the basic fee of $75 and all
fees for additional required inspections charged, or a building permit for a
mobile home, exceed what the total fee would have been if the mobile home were
a conventionally constructed building having a size, improvements, accessories,
garages and outbuildings comparable to those of the mobile home.
(1986 Code, § 7-28.1) (Ord. 1991-1, passed 1-21-1991)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see § 152.005
§ 151.024 MANDATORY COMPLETION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS; EFFECT ON BUILDING
PERMITS.
   (A)   All developers of land who submit subdivision plats to the city and
secure the city’s approval thereof, within four years from the date of the
approval and before building permits are issued for construction on the last
three of the platted lots to be improved, whichever event first occurs, shall
cause a completion of all platted improvements, to meet the specifications of
the city subdivision regulation ordinance in effect at the time of the
approval, and to provide all the services depicted on the plat.
   (B)   All developers shall be personally responsible for the completion of
the improvements, and all persons who sign the plat as developer shall be
personally responsible for the completion of the improvements.
   (C)   In the event the improvements are not completed within the alternative
periods established in division (A) of this section, the city, after 30-days’
notice by first class mail to the developer’s last known address, may cause a
completion of the subdivision to meet the requirements of this section and
thereafter charge the developer and the signing agents of the developer
personally with the cost thereof, together with interest at the then generally
effective prime rate of interest, and together with all court costs and
attorney fees incurred by the city in any enforcement proceedings.
   (D)   The city, upon its expenditure pursuant to division (C) of this
section, may refuse to issue any additional building permits in the subdivision
until the costs of the improvements, the interest thereon, and any attorney
fees have been paid, or may in the alternative refuse to issue building permits
until the developer completes the improvements.
   (E)   The securing of the city’s approval on any subdivision plat will
constitute an acceptance of the terms of this section and this section shall
not be subject to repudiation or denial.
(1986 Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
Cross-reference:
   Annexation plat required with petition for annexation, see §
150.20
§ 151.025 STREETS TO BE COMPLETED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any unsubdivided property or
for any lot in any subdivided property or for any lot in a subdivision until
all of the streets in the unsubdivided area or in the subdivision are
completed.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) of this section shall not apply if the
developer posts a bond in favor of the city in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of completing the streets. The bond shall be underwritten by a surety
authorized to do business in the state.
(1986 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.026 REFUNDS.
   No portion of any fee shall be returned to a permit holder in the case of a
revocation of a building permit or a suspension, discontinuance or abandonment
of work.
(1986 Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-
2006)
ELECTRICITY
§ 151.040 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   The construction, installation, replacement and maintenance of electric
facilities shall be governed by:
   (A)   The other national codes which have previously been adopted by the
city; and
   (B)   Any other federal or state laws which may be applicable.
(1986 Code, § 7-46) (Ord. 1993-25, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 151.041 200 AMPS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Effective May 1, 1997, in order to provide adequate electric service,
each structure with electric service shall have a minimum service of 200 amps.
This shall apply to:
      (1)   All new construction; and
      (2)   All structures where the size of an addition is at least 25% of the
existing floor space.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall inform other building permit applicants
of this section even though the project may be exempt from its coverage.
(1986 Code, § 7-47) (Ord. 1997-12, passed 4-7-1997)
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
§ 151.055 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Residential Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the International Residential Code of the city for
regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement,
replacement, repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached
one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses)
not more than three stories in height with separate means of egress as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Residential Code are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
(1986 Code, § 7-86) (Ord. 1993-26, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 1997-10, passed 3-18-
1997; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-
09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.056 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The following sections of the 2012 International Residential Code are
revised and amended as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.
      (2)   Section R309.5 Fire Sprinklers is deleted in its entirety and
inserted in its place is the following: “R309.5 Separation required. The garage
shall be separated from the residence and its attic area by not less than 1/2-
inch (12.7 mm) gypsum board applied to the garage side. Garages beneath
habitable rooms shall be separated from all habitable rooms above by not less
than 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) Type X gypsum board or equivalent. Where the separation
is a floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the separation shall also
be protected by not less than 1/2-inch (12.7 mm) gypsum board or equivalent.”
      (3)   Section E3902.12 Arc-Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection is
amended to read as follows: “All branch circuits that supply 125 volt, single
phase, 15 or 20 ampere outlets installed in dwelling unit bedrooms shall be
protected by an arc-fault circuit interrupter to provide protection of the
entire branch circuit.”
   (B)   The following sections of the 2012 International Residential Code are
hereby deleted:
      (1)   Section 113 Means of Appeal is deleted in its entirety.
      (2)   Section R313 Automatic Fire Sprinkler Systems is deleted in its
entirety.
      (3)   Sections R402.1 through R402.1.2 Wood Foundations are deleted in
their entirety.
      (4)   Figures R403.i(2) and 11403.1(3) Permanent Wood Foundations are
deleted in their entirety.
      (5)   Section R405.2 Wood Foundation is deleted in its entirely.
      (6)   Section R501.3 Fire Protection of Floors is deleted in its
entirety.
      (7)   Chapter 25 Plumbing Administration, Chapter 26 General Plumbing
Requirements, Chapter 27 Plumbing Fixtures, Chapter 28 Water Heaters, Chapter
29 Water Supply and Distribution, Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage, Chapter 31
Plumbing Vents, and Chapter 32 Plumbing Traps are deleted in their entirety.
      (8)   Appendix P Sizing of Water Piping System is deleted in its
entirety.
   (C)   The 2012 International Residential Code shall be administered by the
Building Inspector.
   (D)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in §
151.999.
   (E)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7-87) (Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-
2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.070 ADOPTED.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Property Maintenance Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the city
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
(1986 Code, § 7-127) (Ord. 1993-27, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 1997-09, passed 3-
17-1997; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord.
2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.071 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The following sections of the 2012 International Property Maintenance
Code are revised and amended in the following respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.
      (2)   Section 111 Means of Appeal is deleted in its entirety.
      (3)   Section 304-14 Insect Screens is amended by inserting the dates
January 1 through December 31.
      (4)   Section 602.3 Heat Supply is amended by inserting the dates October
1 through April 30.
      (5)   Section 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces is amended by inserting the
dates October 1 through April 30.
   (B)   The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code shall be administered
by the Community Service Officer and/or Building Inspector.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in §
151.999.
   (D)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(1986 Code, § 7-128) (Ord. 1993-27, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 1997-09, passed 3-
17-1997; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-21-2001; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord.
2013-09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 151.085 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Fire Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be and
is hereby adopted as the Fire Code of the city for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of the Fire Code, are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.086 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The following sections of the 2012 International Fire Code are amended
and revised in the following respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.”
      (2)   Section 103 Department of Fire Prevention is deleted in its
entirety.
      (3)   Section 104.1 General is hereby amended by adding the following
text, “The Code Official shall not exercise any authority over fire service
features regarding fire scenes or any other sections of this code that pertain
to the operation of and/or duties performed by the Troy Volunteer Fire
Department. Those duties and authority remain with the Troy Fire Chief or his
or her designee.”
      (4)   Section 108 Board of appeal is deleted in its entirety.
      (5)   Section 903.3.1.3 NFPA 13D sprinkler systems is amended to read as
follows: “Automatic sprinkler systems installed in Group R-3 and R-4 congregate
living facilities shall be permitted to be installed throughout in accordance
with NFPA 13D.”
   (B)   The 2012 International Fire Code shall be administered by the Building
Inspector.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in §
151.999.
   (D)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
§ 151.100 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Fuel Gas Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be
and is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the city for regulating and
governing fuel gas systems and gas-fired appliances as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
the Fuel Gas Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.101 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The following sections of the 2012 International Fuel Gas Code are
amended and revised in the following respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.”
      (2)   Section 109 Means of Appeal of the 2012 International Fuel Gas Code
is deleted in its entirety.
   (B)   The 2012 International Fuel Gas Code shall be administered by the
Building Inspector.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in § 151.999.
   (D)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
§ 151.115 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Mechanical Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of the city for regulating and
governing the design, construction, quality of materials, erection,
installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition
to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Mechanical
Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out
in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this code.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.116 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The 2012 International Mechanical Code is amended and revised in the
following respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.”
      (2)   Section 109 Means of Appeal on page 6 of the 2012 International
Mechanical Code is deleted in its entirety.
   (B)   The 2012 International Mechanical Code shall be administered by the
Building Inspector.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in §
151.999.
   (D)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-2006; Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
PLUMBING
§ 151.130 CERTIFICATION THAT PLUMBING WORK CONFORMS TO THE ILLINOIS PLUMBING
CODE.
   (A)   The owner or owners of property on which any work is done on any
plumbing system shall provide documentation to the City Building and Zoning
Department that the work conforms to the requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code.
   (B)   The documentation may be accomplished by either:
      (1)   Certification by the City Plumbing Inspector; or
      (2)   Notarized certificate of compliance to Illinois Plumbing Code by a
state certified plumber.
(1986 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
CONSTRUCTION OF POST-FRAME BUILDINGS
§ 151.145 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CCA. Chromated copper arsenate.
   FOR USE FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY. As applied to post-frame buildings, designates
a post-frame building which is not intended to be used for storage only, but
which is intended to be occupied by people.
   FOR USE FOR STORAGE ONLY. As applied to post-frame buildings, designates a
post-frame building which is intended to be used for storage only.
   POST-FRAME BUILDING. A post-frame building covering an area in excess of 100
square feet.
   SPF. Structural pine frame.
   SYP. Structural yellow pine lumber.
(1986 Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.146 MINIMUM SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A POST-FRAME BUILDING.
   The following specifications set forth the minimum acceptable design for the
construction of the following portions of post-frame buildings within the city:
   (A)   Foundation;
   (B)   Framing;
   (C)   Siding, roofing and trim;
   (D)   Entrance doors;
   (E)   Windows;
   (F)   Overhead doors;
   (G)   Insulation; and
   (H)   Miscellaneous accessories.
(1986 Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.147 FOUNDATION.
   (A)   Post-frame buildings for use for human occupancy.
      (1)   All concrete foundations and frost walls must meet or exceed the
requirements set forth in the most recent edition of the International Building
Code for size, strength, depth and anchor bolts.
      (2)   Termite shield and sill sealer must be installed between foundation
and foundation plate.
      (3)   Foundation plate must be a four-inch by six-inch timber and of
adequate strength to resist twisting between the vertical columns.
      (4)   Eleven gauge galvanized steel T-plate or equal shall be used to tie
vertical columns to foundation plate.
   (B)   Post-frame for storage only.
      (1)   The hole for every post must be at least 14 inches in diameter and
must extend to a depth of at least four feet, five inches (or to undisturbed
earth, if undisturbed earth is only to be found at a greater depth).
      (2)   A precast concrete pad of at least 12 inches in diameter and five
inches thick (or an amount of concrete mix poured in the hole, having the
equivalent or greater dimensions) must be placed at the base of every hole.
      (3)   Dirt must be backfilled into each hole around the post or column
set therein and must be compacted.
(1986 Code, § 7-103) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-
21-2001)
§ 151.148 FRAMING FOR BOTH POST-FRAME BUILDINGS FOR USE FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY AND
POST-FRAME BUILDINGS FOR STORAGE ONLY.
   (A)   The post used for framing a post-frame building shall be of SYP; shall
be treated with CCA or some equivalent or better treatment; shall be at least
six inches by six inches in dimension; shall be spaced at seven feet six inches
on center at sidewalls (those walls supporting roof system) and shall be spaced
at no more than ten feet zero inches on center on end walls.
   (B)   One row of two-inch by eight-inch center match SYP splash boards,
which have been treated with CCA or some equivalent or better treatment, shall
be fastened around the entire base of the building with 16d galvanized ring-
shank nails.
   (C)   Construction-grade girt boards made of two-inch by six-inch SPF No. 2,
or of lumber having equivalent or greater strength, shall be spaced to obtain a
20 pound per square foot wind load in conjunction with other bracing and
siding.
   (D)   Continuous two-inch by six-inch SPF No. 2 construction-grade lumber,
or lumber having equivalent or greater strength, shall serve as truss-support
boards in conjunction with two-inch by six-inch SPF truss-block system. Truss-
support boards shall be fastened to columns with 60d oil-quenched, hardened
steel, ring-shank nails.
   (E)   Preengineered trusses shall be spaced seven feet, six inches on
center. The minimum load-bearing capacity for preengineered trusses shall be 30
pounds per square foot live load on the top chord, five pounds per square foot
dead load on the top chord, and six pounds per square foot dead load on the
bottom chord. All building permit applications must be accompanied by drawings
sealed by an architect registered in the state and must show no less than these
loads and spacings. Trusses shall be fastened at each column with 60d ring-
shank nails and with a minimum of one-half-inch diameter bolt at each end.
   (F)   Load-bearing capacity.
      (1)   Post-frame buildings for use for human occupancy. All trusses at
the ends of post-frame buildings shall be braced with two-inch by six-inch SPF
corner bracing diagonally. At other than the ends of post-frame buildings, all
trusses shall be braced with two-inch by four-inch SPF per truss engineer’s
specifications. Additional bracing must be used where necessary to maintain a
load-bearing capacity of 40 pounds per square foot live load and 30 pounds per
square foot dead load on the roof and sides of a post-frame building.
      (2)   Post-frame buildings for storage only. All trusses at the ends of
post-frame buildings shall be braced with two-inch by six-inch SPF corner
bracing diagonally. At other than the ends of post-frame buildings, all trusses
shall be braced with two-inch by four-inch SPF per truss engineer’s
specifications. Additional bracing must be used where necessary to maintain a
load-bearing capacity of 30 pounds per square foot live load and 20 pounds per
square foot dead load on the roof and sides of a post-frame building.
   (G)   Purlins shall consist of-two inch by four-inch SPF No. 2 construction-
grade lumber, or lumber of equivalent or greater strength, and shall be spaced
on center two feet, zero inches. Each purlin shall be fastened to the trusses
with 60d oil-quenched, hardened ring-shank nails. The end of each purlin shall
lap the end of the next purlin, and the ends of those overlapping purlins shall
be tied together with two 16d galvanized ring-shank nails.
   (H)   All interior walls and the ceilings shall be striped with two-inch by
four-inch SPF No. 2 construction-grade lumber, or lumber of equivalent or
greater strength, and shall be spaced two feet zero inches on center for
application of the interior finish. The two-inch by four-inch timbers used in
the ceiling must be set in approved metal joist hangers.
(1986 Code, § 7-104) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.149 SIDING, ROOFING AND TRIM.
   (A)   Standard siding, roofing and trim shall be used on all post-frame
buildings. This standard siding, roofing and trim shall be made from 29-gauge
steel, having a yield-strength of 80,000 pounds per square inch, coated on both
sides with at least a G60 galvanized coating, and having at least a 20-year
warranty on the finish.
   (B)   Trims must be made of same gauge and grade of steel as the roofing and
siding on post-frame buildings. Post-frame buildings shall incorporate a base
trim on all sidewalls. Eave trim shall be installed at the top of the sidewall
steel on eave sides. Outside corner trim, having dimensions of five inches by
five inches, shall be installed on all corners. Flashing trims shall be
installed at all windows and service door openings. Jamb trims at sliding and
overhead doors shall wrap the wooden jambs. Door stop flashings shall seal
around overhead doors. A form-fitted or straight-design ridge cap with foam
fitted closure strips shall be used.
   (C)   Sidewall sheet steel shall be nailed to posts, purlins and trusses
with galvanized ring-shank nails with neoprene washers. Roof sheet steel shall
be fastened to wood purlins by self-drilling screws with neoprene washers.
(1986 Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.150 ENTRANCE DOORS.
   The frame for each entrance door shall be a standard heavy metal frame
having a gauge of at least 16. All door panels for an entrance door shall
consist of 24-gauge steel. Each entrance door shall be hung with three hinges.
Each entrance door shall have an insulated core rather than hollow core. Each
entrance door shall be equipped with a standard key-in-knob lock set.
(1986 Code, § 7-106) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.151 WINDOWS.
   All windows used in post-frame buildings shall be one of the following
designs: standard aluminum; thermal-break frame; insulated glass; horizontal
sliders, single-hung; or fixed picture.
(1986 Code, § 7-107) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.152 INSULATION.
   (A)   Insulation board must be fire-rated at one hour.
   (B)   Fiberglass-type insulation shall meet the requirements of the most
recent edition of the International Building Code.
(1986 Code, § 7-108) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-
21-2001)
§ 151.153 PERMITTED ZONING USE.
   The construction or erection of post-frame buildings shall be permitted only
in the following zoning districts of the city: A-R, I-1 and I-2. The
construction or erection of post-frame buildings, as defined by this
subchapter, is prohibited in all other zoning districts of the city.
(1986 Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 151.154 REPEAL OF BUILDING CODE PROVISIONS.
   All of § 1007.0 timber footings and wood foundations, of the International
Building Code, as previously adopted by the city, is hereby repealed.
(1986 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5-
21-2001)
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
§ 151.165 ADOPTION.
   A certain document, two copies of which are on file in the office of the
Building and Zoning Department being marked and designated as the International
Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2012 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Pool and Spa Code of the city
regulating and governing the design, construction, alteration, movement,
renovation, replacement, repair and maintenance of swimming pools, spas, hot
tubs, aquatic facilities and related equipment as herein provided; providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and each and all
of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Pool
and Spa Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this code.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 151.166 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The 2012 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code is amended and
revised in the following respects:
      (1)   Section 101.1 is hereby amended by substituting “City of Troy,
Illinois” for the words “[NAME OF JURISDICTION]” and by adding the sentence,
“The term “jurisdiction” wherever appearing in this code shall mean the City of
Troy, Illinois.”
      (2)   Section 108 Means of Appeal is deleted in its entirety.
   (B)   The 2012 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code shall be
administered by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   The penalties for violations of this code shall be those which are
described in §
151.999.
   (D)   The fees for applications, permits and inspections shall be prescribed
by the City Council.
(Ord. 2013-09, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
151.999
RENTAL HOUSING REGISTRATION
§ 151.170 INTRODUCTION; PURPOSE.
   It is the intention of the city to take steps that will improve the
livability and valuation of the city’s housing stock and to promote
revitalization of the city’s neighborhoods. Studies have shown that rental
housing tends to generate a disproportionately high level of Building Code
violations and code enforcement problems. Inspecting rental housing on a
systematic basis and requiring compliance with the minimum level of housing
standards contained in the International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted
by the city, and all other codes referenced therein, shall eventually help
reduce housing deterioration in the city’s neighborhoods and will promote
revitalization. With this in mind, this subchapter sets forth a rental housing
registration and systematic inspection program.
(1986 Code, § 7-143) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.171 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General guidelines. The International Property Maintenance Code, as
adopted in §
151.070, shall be the source of definitions affecting the provisions of this
subchapter unless specifically provided hereinafter in this section. When
conflicts occur, definitions provided in the International Property Maintenance
Code shall apply.
   (B)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The City Code Official or his or her assigns.
      DWELLING. See International Property Maintenance Code.
      OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A written document, signed by the Code Official,
certifying that a dwelling conforms to the city’s approved International
Property Maintenance Code and compliance with code requirements.
      OWNER.  Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of
the county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person and the executor or administrator of the estate of the person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court having jurisdiction.
      OWNERSHIP; CHANGE IN. Change of owners as described herein, in addition
to any sale by contract whether recorded or not, and any transfer of property
title or rights to property whether or not remuneration is provided.
      RENTAL DWELLING.  A dwelling unit offered for remuneration whether for
cash or any other form of payment.
(1986 Code, § 7-144) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.172 REGISTRATION OF RENTAL HOUSING REQUIRED.
   All owners of rental dwelling(s) shall be required to register each unit of
the dwelling(s) within 60 days after the effective date hereof. Owners of
hotels or other dwellings who rent units on a monthly basis shall also be
required to register the units within this 60-day period. After the effective
date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person or entity to rent a dwelling
within the corporate limits of the city unless the person or entity complies
with the requirements of this subchapter. Failure to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter shall subject the person or entity to the
penalties set forth herein. Owners shall complete a registration application
for each unit of their dwelling(s) on forms provided by the Code Official.
(1986 Code, § 7-145) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.173 UPDATING REGISTRATION AT CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP.
   A new owner of any rental dwelling(s) shall be required to update the unit
(s) registration within 60 days of a change in ownership and/or at the time of
any change in tenancy of any unit(s).
(1986 Code, § 7-146) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.174 INITIAL OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   All owners of any rental dwelling unit(s) shall obtain an occupancy permit
prior to a new tenant moving into any rental unit after the effective date
hereof, or, in the event that a rental unit is currently occupied on the
effective date hereof, the owner of the rental unit shall obtain an occupancy
permit within two years after the effective date hereof. The owner, or his or
her agent, shall obtain an occupancy permit for the unit of each such dwelling
and pay an inspection fee as provided herein per unit in the office of the Code
Official.
(1986 Code, § 7-147) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.175 OCCUPANCY PERMIT APPLICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   Upon any change in tenancy of a specific rental unit, the owner shall
be required to submit the required application for occupancy permit.
   (B)   The owner shall make an appointment for an inspection of the property
and affected unit to determine compliance with the Property Maintenance Code.
   (C)   The owner shall pay a fee of $25 for the first inspection, report and
a subsequent followup inspection, if necessary. An occupancy permit shall not
be issued until all fees are paid.
   (D)   The owner shall pay a fee of $25 for each inspection necessary under §
151.179.
(1986 Code, § 7-148) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.176 VIOLATION OF REGISTRATION PROVISIONS.
   Any owner found to be in violation of the registration requirements of this
subchapter shall be required to pay an involuntary registration fee of $150 per
rental dwelling unit.
(1986 Code, § 7-149) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.177 COMPLAINTS.
   No provision of this subchapter shall prohibit the Code Official from
scheduling an inspection or reinspection based upon a complaint.
(1986 Code, § 7-151) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.178 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following rental dwellings are required to register, but shall be exempt
from the inspection for occupancy permit compliance requirements provided
herein. They shall however, be subject to normal inspections under the
International Property Maintenance Code if complaints are received from
occupants, tenants or owners:
   (A)   Dwellings that have received a certificate of occupancy as part of an
International Building Code permit process. In the event, however, there is a
change in tenancy of a rental dwelling unit, the owner shall be required to
submit an application for an occupancy permit; and
   (B)   Dwellings that contain 20 or more contiguous rental dwellings within
one property that are annually inspected through programs administered by the
State Department of Public Health or the State Housing Development Authority.
(1986 Code, § 7-152) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.179 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The scope of an inspection performed pursuant to this subchapter shall
be limited to the minimum housing standards set forth in the International
Property Maintenance Code, as adopted by the city. The International Property
Maintenance Code, as adopted by the city, shall act as a guideline for the Code
Official in determining whether code violations exist.
   (B)   Upon completion of an inspection performed pursuant to this
subchapter, the Code Official shall prepare a written inspection report. This
report shall include but not necessarily be limited to the following
information:
      (1)   Address of the rental dwelling inspected;
      (2)   Name of the owner of the dwelling;
      (3)   Date of the inspection;
      (4)   List of all code violations;
      (5)   Name of the person responsible for removing the code violations;
and
      (6)   A deadline for removing each of the code violations.
(1986 Code, § 7-153) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.180 REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The Code Official shall provide a copy of the violation notice to the
owner by mailing the notice via first class mail to the address provided on the
registration form. Notice shall be delivered within five business days of the
inspection.
   (B)   All violations shall be removed within 30 days from the date of
inspection. If the person responsible for removing the code violations is
unable to remove them within the time specified in the violation notice, he or
she must contact the Code Official to request an extension of time to remove
the violations. The Code Official may grant an extension of time, for good
cause shown, provided that all violations are removed within 60 days from the
date of the inspection.
   (C)   If, after 30 days of the first inspection, the Code Official
determines the code violations have not been corrected, additional inspections
may be required. Those inspections shall be subject to fees outlined in §
151.175.
(1986 Code, § 7-154) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.181 TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Code Official may allow occupancy of a dwelling as efforts proceed
to remedy code violations. This may be accomplished by issuing a temporary
occupancy permit for a period not to exceed 30 days from the date of the notice
of violation. A temporary occupancy permit shall only be allowed when, in the
judgment of the Code Official, practical difficulties exist that inhibit the
owner’s ability to complete all necessary repairs in a timely manner. A
temporary occupancy permit may be reissued for additional period(s) of 30 days,
at the discretion of Code Official, if the Code Official has judged that the
owner is making a good faith effort to remedy the code violation(s).
   (B)   However, no temporary occupancy permit shall be issued when, in the
opinion of the Code Official, there is a condition on the premises which
represents an imminent threat to the health or safety of an occupant. A
temporary occupancy permit may be terminated at any time by the Code Official
if, in the opinion of the Code Official, the owner is not making a good faith
effort to remedy the code violations according to the approved schedule. In
this circumstance the Code Official shall have the authority to seek an order
to have the rental unit or dwelling vacated of all occupants.
(1986 Code, § 7-155) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.182 OCCUPANCY PERMIT; ISSUANCE.
   If the property is found to be in compliance with the code, the occupancy
permit will be presented to the resident with a copy to the owner. Once the
violations identified in the inspection report have been remedied, or a
schedule acceptable to the Code Official has been approved to remove the
violations, an occupancy permit shall be issued by the Code Official. The
permit shall be valid until a change in tenancy of the subject rental unit
occurs.
(1986 Code, § 7-156) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.183 OCCUPANCY PERMIT; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Code Official may revoke a previously issued occupancy permit
under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   A code violation which could be detrimental to the health, safety
or welfare of the occupants has not been removed within the time frame set out
in the violation notice;
      (2)   A reinspection performed pursuant to this subchapter reveals
violations which could be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of the
occupants of the dwelling unit; or
      (3)   Failure to give written notice to the city of any additional or
different individuals moving into the unit after issuance of the original
permit.
   (B)   If a condition described above exists which would warrant the
termination of an occupancy permit, the Code Official may fine the owner under
the penalties set forth in §
151.999 or seek an order to have the rental dwelling vacated of all occupants.
(1986 Code, § 7-157) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.184 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be January 1, 2008.
(1986 Code, § 7-159) (Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of the Building Code, as set forth in §
151.020(B), shall be guilty of a civil offense punishable by a fine of not less
than $100 and not more than $750, which shall be imposed whether a judgment or
order of supervision is entered. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Persons who continue work after a stop work order, as set forth in
§
151.020(C), shall be liable to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$750, which shall be imposed whether a judgment or order of supervision is
entered. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(1986 Code, § 7-26)
   (C)   A violation of §§
151.145 through
151.154 shall be punishable by a fine of at least $25 and not more than $500.
Each day that a violation continues shall be considered as a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 7-111)
   (D)   Penalties sought in relationship to the provisions of §§
151.170 through
151.184 shall be in accordance with the penalty section of the International
Property Maintenance Code adopted in §
151.070. In addition, any violation of this subchapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than $75 and not more than $750 per offense. Each day of
noncompliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(1986 Code, § 7-158)
(Ord. 1990-08A, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 1993-28, passed 10-4-1993; Ord. 1997-08,
passed 3-17-1997; Ord. 2001-12, passed 5- 21-2001; Ord. 2006-05, passed 3-6-
2006; Ord. 2007-20, passed 11-19-2007)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Definitions
   
152.002   Placement of mobile homes
   
152.003   Furnishing electrical service to units not in park
   
152.004   Certificate of use and occupancy required
   
152.005   Minimum standards
Licensing
   
152.015   License and permit required
   
152.016   Permit and license applications
   
152.017   Permit and license fee
   
152.018   Permit or license issuance or denial generally; inspection of
facilities
   
152.019   Transfer of license
   
152.020   Permit or license display
   
152.021   Changes to sanitary water or waste facilities or plat plan; permit
   
152.022   License fee
   
152.023   License suspension or revocation; abatement of violations
Facilities
   
152.035   Attendant required; duties generally
   
152.036   Minimum space or site for each mobile home; location of mobile homes;
access
   
152.037   Maximum homes on lot
   
152.038   Location of unit to property line
   
152.039   Lot markers and number
   
152.040   Tenant storage facilities
   
152.041   Office structures
   
152.042   Additions to mobile homes
   
152.043   Base enclosure
   
152.044   Fuel storage facilities
   
152.045   Parking spaces
Utilities
   
152.055   Water supply generally
   
152.056   Sewage disposal
   
152.057   Laundry facilities
   
152.058   Electric lighting and outlets
   
152.059   Playgrounds
   
152.060   Service buildings
   
152.061   Permitted obstructions
Mobile Home Stands
   
152.075   Generally
   
152.076   Size
   
152.077   Location
   
152.078   Construction
   
152.079   Gradient
   
152.080   Distance from certain property
Patios
   
152.095   Required
   
152.096   Construction generally
   
152.097   Location
   
152.098   Elevation
Streets and Walks
   
152.115   Compliance with subdivision ordinance
   
152.116   Obstructions
   
152.117   Walks required
   
152.118   Construction specifications
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and building regulations, see §§
151.020 through
151.026
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
   Mobile home initial location, building permit required, inspections, see §
151.023
   Streets and sidewalks, see
Ch. 92
Statutory reference:
   Mobile homes parks generally, ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.
   Power of city to regulate mobile home parks, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-8
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit which possesses all of
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is designed for long-term occupancy, and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
      (2)   It is designed to be transported after fabrication on its own
wheels, or on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels; and
      (3)   It arrives at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete, including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of the mobile home.
(1986 Code, § 13-1)
§ 152.002 PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Except as provided in the zoning ordinance of the city, it shall be unlawful
for any property owner, tenant, lessee or administrator of any real estate in
the city to rent, lease or to allow any mobile home that is to be used as a
dwelling or living quarters to be parked on the land under his or her
supervision, unless it is in a legal mobile home park licensed by the city and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.003 FURNISHING ELECTRICAL SERVICE TO UNITS NOT IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any electric company to furnish electricity to any
mobile home that is to be used as a dwelling or living quarters in the city
unless it is parked in a mobile home park licensed by the city or a district
permitted by the zoning ordinance of the city.
(1986 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.004 CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   No mobile home park shall be occupied until a certificate of use and
occupancy shall have been issued by the building inspectors to the effect that
the mobile home park or the portion thereof for which the certificate is
requested is in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(1986 Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.005 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The minimum standards for plumbing, heating and electrical systems
shall be as set forth in this code and state law, and mobile homes occupied as
a dwelling unit shall comply with the same.
   (B)   Mobile homes that display the official seal and register number of the
Mobile Home Manufacturing Association and the Trailer Coach Association will be
considered to comply with the minimum standards for plumbing, heating and
electrical systems.
   (C)   Mobile homes that do not meet these minimum standards for plumbing,
heating and electrical systems will not be issued a certificate of use and
occupancy permit by the building inspectors.
(1986 Code, § 13-5)
LICENSING
§ 152.015 LICENSE AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct or alter a mobile home park without a permit to do
so, or operate a mobile home park without a license therefor.
(1986 Code, § 13-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.016 PERMIT AND LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct, or an original license to
operate, a mobile home park a person shall file with the City Clerk a written
application setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant, or the names and
addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the present or
last occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application;
      (2)   The location and legal description of the tract of land upon which
it is proposed to operate and maintain the mobile home park;
      (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, fire protection and for a
community building which shall include a description of toilets, urinals,
sinks, wash basins, slop sinks, showers, drains and laundry facilities, the
proposed alterations therein and the maintenance thereof;
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (5)   The site plans of the mobile home park, the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities as may be required by the rules and regulations of the city
under the provisions of this chapter; and
      (6)   A statement of the firefighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park.
   (B)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters contained
in the application shall be attached thereto. Where a permit to construct as
well as an original license to operate is sought by the applicant, a request
therefor shall be made in the same application.
(1986 Code, § 13-7)
§ 152.017 PERMIT AND LICENSE FEE.
   Each application for a permit to construct a mobile home park or a license
to operate and maintain same shall be accompanied by an application fee
established by the City Council. Each application fee shall be paid to the city
by a separate certified check or U.S. money order in amount of the application
fee only, and the application fee once paid to the city shall not be refunded.
(1986 Code, § 13-8)
§ 152.018 PERMIT OR LICENSE ISSUANCE OR DENIAL GENERALLY; INSPECTION OF
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a mobile home
park, or an application for a license to operate and maintain the same, the
building inspectors shall, if the park is or the proposed park will be in
conformity with this chapter, issue a permit to construct or an original
license, as the case may be. If the application for a permit to construct or an
original license is declined, the building inspectors shall give the reasons
therefor in writing to the applicant, and if the objection can be corrected,
the applicant may amend his application and resubmit it for approval.
   (B)   If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been issued, the
holder thereof upon completion thereof shall notify the building inspectors.
The building inspectors shall then inspect the mobile home park and if
completed in accordance with the accepted license application, the building
inspectors shall then issue the license.
(1986 Code, § 13-9)
§ 152.019 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable only upon the written consent of the city; provided, however, that
the city may not withhold consent where the provisions of this chapter have
been complied with in all other respects.
(1986 Code, § 13-10)
§ 152.020 PERMIT OR LICENSE DISPLAY.
   All permits to construct, all licenses to operate, and all permits to make
alterations therein shall be prominently displayed in the office of the mobile
home park.
(1986 Code, § 13-11)
§ 152.021 CHANGES TO SANITARY WATER OR WASTE FACILITIES OR PLAT PLAN; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall make changes in any sanitary facilities, methods of
water supply, sewer, drainage, garbage or waste disposal, and no change in the
plat plan submitted to the city shall be made without first making a written
application to the city and receiving a written permit therefrom. The
application shall be made in the way and manner hereinbefore set forth; such
change or changes shall comply with the safety and sanitary code, codes, rules
and regulations as are applicable thereto.
   (B)   Such a permit shall not relieve the applicant from securing building
permits or from complying with any other ordinances applicable thereto.
(1986 Code, § 13-12)
§ 152.022 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   In addition to the required license application fee provided for by §
152.017, a person holding a license under the provisions of this chapter shall
pay to the City Clerk on or before January 1 of each year an annual license fee
established by the City Council.
   (B)   Each such license fee shall be paid to the city by a separate
certified check or U.S. money order in the amount of the license fee only and
any license fee or any part thereof, once paid to and accepted by the city
shall not be refunded.
(1986 Code, § 13-13)
§ 152.023 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   Any license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to revocation
or suspension by the city; however, the City Clerk shall first serve or cause
to be served upon the licensee a written notice in which shall be specified the
way in which the licensee has failed to comply with this chapter, or any rules
or regulations promulgated by the city pertaining thereto. The notice shall
require the licensee to remove or abate the nuisance, insanitary or
objectionable condition specified in the notice within ten days or within a
longer period of time as may be allowed by the City Clerk. If the licensee
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of the notice, within the time
specified or the extended period of time, the City Clerk may revoke or suspend
the license.
(1986 Code, § 13-14)
FACILITIES
§ 152.035 ATTENDANT REQUIRED; DUTIES GENERALLY.
   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed under the provisions of
this chapter shall provide a responsible attendant, caretaker or agent whose
duty it shall be to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in a clean,
orderly and sanitary condition.
(1986 Code, § 13-15)
§ 152.036 MINIMUM SPACE OR SITE FOR EACH MOBILE HOME; LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES;
ACCESS.
   (A)   Each space or site on which each mobile home is accommodated shall
have a minimum area of 2,100 square feet.
   (B)   No mobile home shall be parked closer than five feet to the side lot
lines of a park, or closer than ten feet to a public street, alley or building.
Each individual site shall abut or face on a private or public driveway or
roadway of not less than 24 feet in width, which driveway or roadway shall have
unobstructed access to a public highway or alley. There shall be an open space
of at least ten feet adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and at least
five feet adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
(1986 Code, § 13-16)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, § 9.3
§ 152.037 MAXIMUM HOMES ON LOT.
   No person shall place more than one mobile home upon any lot in a mobile
home park.
(1986 Code, § 13-17)
§ 152.038 LOCATION OF UNIT TO PROPERTY LINE.
   No mobile home shall be placed a lesser distance from the mobile home park
boundary than the side yard width required in the zoning district in which the
property is located, but in no case shall any mobile home be placed less than
15 feet from the mobile home park boundary.
(1986 Code, § 13-18)
§ 152.039 LOT MARKERS AND NUMBER.
   Every mobile home lot shall be clearly defined on the ground by permanent
markers. There shall be posted and maintained in a conspicuous place on each
lot a number corresponding to the number of each lot as shown on the plot plan
submitted as required in §
152.016 so that each lot may be easily identified.
(1986 Code, § 13-19)
§ 152.040 TENANT STORAGE FACILITIES.
   All tenant storage shall provide storage facilities on or conveniently near
each mobile home lot for the active storage of outdoor equipment, furniture or
tools, and for the inactive storage of such other materials as are used only
seasonally or infrequently by the typical tenant and cannot be conveniently
stored in the typical mobile home. Such storage facilities shall be furnished
by the tenant, but the operator of a mobile home park may require of tenants
who choose to purchase storage facilities that all storage facilities in the
mobile home park be uniform.
(1986 Code, § 13-20)
§ 152.041 OFFICE STRUCTURES.
   If an office structure is provided as an accessory structure in a mobile
home park, its construction shall comply with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
(1986 Code, § 13-21)
§ 152.042 ADDITIONS TO MOBILE HOMES.
   No permanent or semipermanent structure shall be affixed to any mobile home
as an addition to the mobile home, nor shall any accessory structure be
permitted on any mobile home lot or in any mobile home park except those
accessory structures required by this chapter and a structure to house an
office. The prohibition herein against any addition or accessory to a mobile
home shall not apply to a canopy or awning designed for use with a mobile home,
or to any expansion unit or accessory structure specifically manufactured for
mobile homes.
(1986 Code, § 13-22)
§ 152.043 BASE ENCLOSURE.
   All mobile homes which are placed on foundations or piers shall have the
entire perimeter enclosed. The enclosure shall be of a material approved by the
building inspectors. The metal panels manufactured for mobile home enclosures
shall be considered to meet these requirements.
(1986 Code, § 13-23)
§ 152.044 FUEL STORAGE FACILITIES.
   No individual storage facilities for gasoline, oil, gas, liquefied petroleum
or other fuels shall be placed within a mobile home park.
(1986 Code, § 13-24)
§ 152.045 PARKING SPACES.
   Parking spaces shall be provided for not less than two cars per mobile home
lot. Each such parking space shall be not less than nine feet wide and 20 feet
deep and shall be surfaced for its entire area with durable, hard material,
suitable for all-weather use.
(1986 Code, § 13-25)
UTILITIES
§ 152.055 WATER SUPPLY GENERALLY.
   An adequate supply of potable water shall be furnished from a public water
supply system or from a private water system conforming to all applicable laws,
regulations, resolutions and ordinances, with supply faucets located on each
mobile home lot.
(1986 Code, § 13-26)
§ 152.056 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   In each mobile home park, all waste or wastewater, including such waste or
wastewater from mobile homes from a faucet, toilet, tub, shower, sink, slop
sink, drain, washing machine, garbage disposal unit or laundry shall empty into
an approved sewer system installed in accordance with
Chapter 153.
(1986 Code, § 13-27)
§ 152.057 LAUNDRY FACILITIES.
   (A)   When laundry facilities are provided by a mobile home park such
facilities shall have hot and cold water outlets which equal not less than the
number of laundry trays and washing machines provided, and an ample number of
electrical outlets shall be provided supplying current sufficient to operate
each machine.
   (B)   The laundry facilities shall be in a separate service building or, if
in the same building where sanitation facilities are housed, shall be separated
from the area housing sanitation facilities by a soundproof wall.
(1986 Code, § 13-28)
§ 152.058 ELECTRIC LIGHTING AND OUTLETS.
   All entrances, exits and driveways to a mobile home park shall be lighted at
night. Not less than a 100 watt electric light shall be provided for each 200
lineal feet of private street and at each entrance and exit to the mobile home
park. At least one receptacle outlet for each mobile home space shall be
provided; this receptacle and other electric wiring shall conform to the
requirements of the Electrical Code adopted by §
151.001.
(1986 Code, § 13-29)
§ 152.059 PLAYGROUNDS.
   The size of the recreational area shall be not less than 3% of the gross
site area devoted to recreational facilities, generally provided in a central
location, including suitable landscaping, fencing and benches. In larger
courts, decentralization will be allowed. Recreation areas shall include space
for community buildings and community use facilities, such as adult recreation,
child playgrounds and natural open space.
(1986 Code, § 13-30)
§ 152.060 SERVICE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Each mobile home park may provide service buildings to house toilet,
bathing or other sanitation facilities as are prescribed.
   (B)   All service buildings shall be permanent structures complying with all
applicable laws and ordinances regulating the construction of buildings. In
addition all service buildings in a mobile home park shall be adequately
lighted at all times of day and night and shall be well ventilated with screens
on all openings. They shall be constructed of such moistureproof material,
including painted woodwork, as shall permit repeated cleaning and washing and
shall be maintained at a temperature of not less than 68ºF during the period
from September 1 to May 15. The floors of all service buildings shall be of
water-impervious material and shall contain a drain and shall be so constructed
as to assure efficient drainage to the drain.
   (C)   All service buildings and the grounds of a mobile home park shall be
maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that
will pose a menace to health of any occupant or the public or constitute a
nuisance or fire hazard.
(1986 Code, § 13-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.061 PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall not be considered as
obstructions when located in the yards indicated:
   (A)   All yards. Chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, open terraces and awnings
adjoining the mobile home if they do not exceed 10% of the depth of the yard;
ornamental light standards and flagpoles, fences, trees and shrubs, except that
on corner lots, fences, trees and shrubs shall not be higher than 30 inches
above the centerline grade of the intersecting streets if located in that
portion of a required front or side yard situated within 20 feet of the lot
corner formed by the intersection of any two street lines;
   (B)   Front yards. No other obstructions shall be permitted;
   (C)   Side yards. Open accessory off-street parking spaces, except in a side
yard abutting a street; and
   (D)   Rear yards. Private garages or carports, if attached or structurally a
part of the mobile home, open accessory off-street parking spaces, accessory
sheds, tool rooms, or other similar accessory buildings; private swimming pools
in accordance with regulations of the city. Accessory buildings or structures
may occupy not more than 30% of a rear yard.
(1986 Code, § 13-32)
MOBILE HOME STANDS
§ 152.075 GENERALLY.
   The placement of a mobile home stand shall provide for the practical
placement on and removal from the lot of both the mobile home and its
appurtenance structures, and the retention of the home on the lot in a stable
condition and in satisfactory relationship to its surroundings.
(1986 Code, § 13-46)
§ 152.076 SIZE.
   The size of a mobile home stand shall be suitable for the general market to
be served by the individual proposal and suitable to fit dimensions of mobile
homes anticipated, including mobile home appurtenant structures or appendages.
(1986 Code, § 13-47)
§ 152.077 LOCATION.
   The location of each mobile home stand shall be at an elevation, distance
and angle in relation to the access street and the mobile home accessway that
placement and removal of the mobile home is practical.
(1986 Code, § 13-48)
§ 152.078 CONSTRUCTION.
   A mobile home stand shall be composed of appropriate material, properly
graded, which is placed and compacted so as to be durable and adequate for the
support of the maximum anticipated loads during all seasons, and protected
against the action of frost or freezing.
(1986 Code, § 13-49)
§ 152.079 GRADIENT.
   There shall be a minimum of 2% longitudinal and adequate crown or cross-
gradient for surface or drainage for a mobile home stand.
(1986 Code, § 13-50)
§ 152.080 DISTANCE FROM CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   (A)   The distance from the line or corner of the mobile home stand to a
private access drive, a common parking area, a common walk or other common area
shall be ten feet minimum. Patios, carports and individual storage facilities
shall be disregarded in determining yard widths.
   (B)   The distance from the line or corner of the mobile home stand to a
public street shall be a minimum of 25 feet.
(1986 Code, § 13-51)
PATIOS
§ 152.095 REQUIRED.
   Each mobile home lot shall provide an appropriate outdoor living space to
supplement the limited interior space of a mobile home.
(1986 Code, § 13-66)
§ 152.096 CONSTRUCTION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any subgrading in connection with a patio required by this subchapter
shall be well drained, uniformly graded and compacted.
   (B)   A patio required by this subchapter shall be constructed so as to
provide a useful outdoor surface constructed or formed either monolithically or
in movable units with weather-resistant materials placed sufficiently close
together to create a paved area.
(1986 Code, § 13-67)
§ 152.097 LOCATION.
   Every patio location shall be convenient to the entrance of the mobile home,
appropriately related to open areas of the lot and other facilities, fitted to
terrain and natural features and related to anticipated mobile home models.
(1986 Code, § 13-68)
§ 152.098 ELEVATION.
   Where practical, the patio required by this subchapter shall be at an
elevation at least as high as the elevation of its mobile home stand. Where
topographical conditions permit, the patio and adjoining yard areas on the
entry side of the mobile home stand may be as much as two feet higher than the
mobile home stand in order that the level of the patio and outdoor living areas
will be close to the floor level of an in-place mobile home. The grade
difference between the patio and the stand may be taken up by a retaining wall
or cribbing or by an earth slope. Where the patio is higher than the mobile
home stand, adequate surface drainage of the mobile home stand shall be
provided across the other side or ends of the stand.
(1986 Code, § 13-69)
STREETS AND WALKS
§ 152.115 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE.
   All streets in a mobile home park shall conform to the requirements of the
subdivision ordinance.
(1986 Code, § 13-86)
§ 152.116 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   All private streets in a mobile home park shall have unobstructed access to
a public street or highway.
(1986 Code, § 13-87)
§ 152.117 WALKS REQUIRED.
   Walks shall be provided in a mobile home park for safe, convenient, all-
season pedestrian access; of adequate width for intended use; durable and
convenient to maintain. There shall be:
   (A)   Individual walks to each mobile home stand from a paved driveway or
parking space connecting to a paved street; and
   (B)   Common walks in locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated;
for example, at the court entrance and to the court office and other important
facilities.
(1986 Code, § 13-101)
§ 152.118 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   Walks shall be constructed of concrete in accordance with the subdivision
ordinance. The width shall be generally at least three feet for entrance walks
on individual lots and at least five feet for common walks. Sudden changes in
alignment and gradient shall be avoided. Required walks are not to be used on
drainage ways.
(1986 Code, § 13-102)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purpose and intent
   
153.003   Jurisdiction and conflicting laws
   
153.004   Interpretation
   
153.005   Incorporation of figures and standards
   
153.006   Disclaimer of liability
   
153.007   Rules of construction
   
153.008   Selected definitions
General Design and Improvement Standards; Standards for Lots
   
153.020   General prohibition
   
153.021   General suitability for subdivision
   
153.022   General design standards
   
153.023   Standards for lots
   
153.024   Street frontage required
   
153.025   Reference monuments required
General Standards for Streets
   
153.035   Standards for grading
   
153.036   Subgrades
   
153.037   Soil subgrade modification
   
153.038   Granular subbase
   
153.039   Compaction verification
   
153.040   Typical street sections
   
153.041   Materials for flexible pavement construction
   
153.042   Equipment and procedures for flexible pavement
   
153.043   Materials for rigid pavement construction
   
153.044   Equipment and procedures for rigid pavement
   
153.045   Specifications for concrete in non-pavement areas
   
153.046   Curb and gutter construction
   
153.047   Grass lined ditch construction
Design Standards
   
153.060   Relationship of new to existing streets
   
153.061   Designing blocks
   
153.062   Designing intersections
   
153.063   Designing curves
   
153.064   Designing dead-end streets
   
153.065   Designing sidewalks
   
153.066   Specifications for street signs
   
153.067   Dedication for public use
Utilities
   
153.080   General standards for utilities
   
153.081   Specific standards for water services
   
153.082   Specific standards for public sanitary sewers
   
153.083   Specific standards for other utilities
   
153.084   Safety provisions
   
153.085   Standards for easements
   
153.086   Provision of green space
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.120   Schedule of fees
   
153.121   Authority
   
153.122   Code Administrator
   
153.123   City Engineer
   
153.124   Planning Commission
   
153.125   Complaints
   
153.126   Corrective action orders
   
153.127   Contents of order
   
153.128   Service of order
   
153.129   Stop work orders
   
153.130   Emergency measures
Subdivision Process: Preliminary Plats
   
153.140   Subdivision process
   
153.141   Pre-application conference
   
153.142   Preliminary plats
   
153.143   Requirements for filing
   
153.144   Action by the Planning Commission
   
153.145   Action by the City Council
Improvements
   
153.160   Improvement plans
   
153.161   Requirements for filing
   
153.162   Requirements for approval
   
153.163   Construction and inspection of improvements
   
153.164   Requirements for “as-built” records
   
153.165   Requirements for assurance of completion
   
153.166   Acceptable forms of assurance
   
153.167   Term of assurance, extension
   
153.168   Release of bond, escrow deposit
   
153.169   Failure to complete improvements
Final Plats
   
153.185   General provisions
   
153.186   Requirements for filing
   
153.187   Required certificates
   
153.188   Administrative review procedures
   
153.189   Action by the City Council
   
153.190   Changes in approved final plats
   
153.191   Maintenance of improvements
   
153.192   Duration of guarantee
   
153.193   Variations
   
153.194   Review by the Planning Commission
   
153.195   Action by the City Council
Amendments to Chapter
   
153.210   Amendments
   
153.211   Public hearing, notice
   
153.212   Action by the City Council
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Standard Specification Plan Sheets
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see also
Ch. 37, App. A
   Street regulations and construction, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Troy Subdivision Code” or
“this chapter.”
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-1, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   In accordance with the Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS), this chapter
regulates the subdivision and development of land in order to assist in
achieving the following specific objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
   (B)   To implement the city's comprehensive plan and official map;
   (C)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and development of land;
   (D)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   (E)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements and buildings
throughout the city;
   (F)   To preserve the city's natural beauty and topography to the maximum
feasible extent;
   (G)   To protect against injury or damage caused by pollution, stormwater
runoff, erosion and sedimentation or similar hazards;
   (H)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the proper
location, design and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   (I)   To ensure that the proper installation and maintenance of adequate
water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers and other utilities and services;
and
   (J)   To provide a means for making adequate parks, schools and other public
facilities available to the residents of new developments.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-2, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION AND CONFLICTING LAWS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the
city and within all unincorporated territory located within one and one-half
miles of the limits, provided the territory is not located within the
subdivision jurisdiction of another municipality. Jurisdictional boundary lines
shall be determined in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-9.
   (B)   Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from those of any
easement, statute, other lawfully adopted ordinance or regulation, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail. Developers are therefore encouraged to
review other regulations to ensure compliance. In accordance with state law,
whenever this chapter imposes higher standards than any county subdivision
ordinance, the higher standards shall supersede any county regulations in the
unincorporated territory located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the
city.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-3, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.004 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the event that any provision of this chapter requires
interpretation in order to be clarified, the Code Administrator identified in §
153.122 shall be vested with the authority to make the interpretation.
      (1)   Any appeal of the interpretation shall be made in writing to the
Planning Commission, which shall review the appeal request and forward a
recommendation to the City Council, whose decision shall be final.
      (2)   Any such interpretation, whether by the Code Administrator or the
City Council, shall be reduced to writing and thereafter equitably applied to
all.
   (B)   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor
of the city, and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the
minimum requirement for the promotion of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   This chapter and the aforementioned statutes shall be construed
together in such a manner as to give full effect to both the regulations and
statutes except in a case of irreconcilable conflict. In case of irreconcilable
conflict, the laws passed by the State General Assembly are controlling to the
extent of the conflict.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-4, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.005 INCORPORATION OF FIGURES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Certain design concepts, standards and related matters addressed
herein are further clarified by illustrations and examples contained in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (B)   The requirements indicated in
Appendix A shall be as effective and binding as the narrative portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-5, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.006 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
official, Council member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter. (See the Local Governmental and Governmental
Employees Tort Immunity Act, ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, § 1-101).
   (B)   Any suit brought against any official, Council member, agent or
employee of this city as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter shall be defended by the City
Legal Department until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-1-6, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.007 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in §
153.008; terms not defined in §
153.008 shall have the meaning respectively ascribed to them in
Chapter 154: if any term is not defined either in §
153.008 or in
Chapter 154, the term shall have its standard English dictionary meaning.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   (E)   The word “shall” is mandatory; the word “may” is discretionary.
   (F)   With the exception of building setbacks, all distances shall be
measured to the nearest integral foot; six inches or more shall be deemed one
foot.
   (G)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, divisions and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   (H)   Reference to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (I)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-2-1, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.008 SELECTED DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The employee or officer of the city appointed by the Mayor to
administer this chapter; or his or her duly authorized representative.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way that affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter properly effected in
accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the
necessary forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to
carry out construction of a new development or redevelopment from the city.
   AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed
for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for
street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
   ASTM. American Society of Testing Materials.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway or way) or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the city for the construction, erection
or alteration of a structure or building and the related ground and surface
preparation prior to and after completion of construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
   CENTERLINE.
      (1)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly; or
      (3)   The new CENTERLINE, whenever a road has been relocated.
   CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerlines of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both parallel
streets intersect.
   CERTIFY or CERTIFICATION. Formally attesting that the specific inspections
and tests were performed and that the inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
   CITY. The city or the area within the territorial limits of the city, and
that territory outside of the city over which the city has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of any constitutional or statutory provision.
   CITY ENGINEER. A professional engineer registered in the state appointed by
the Mayor.
   CLEARING. Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan or any portion thereof adopted by the City
Council to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development with the
city. Sometimes referred to as a land-use plan, the COMPREHENSIVE PLAN includes
but is not limited to plans and programs regarding the location, character and
extent of streets and related facilities; public buildings and uses; utilities;
schools; residential, commercial or industrial land uses; parks; and drainage
facilities.
   CROSS-SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way rather
than in the direction traffic moves on the right-of-way.
   CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street, plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of placed concrete as a
single facility.
   DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land or
improvement to the city or other public entity without compensation.
   DENSITY, NET. The total number of dwelling units divided by the total
project area less the area for street rights-of-way.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, and developing or proposing to
develop land within the corporate limits; may be synonymous with SUBDIVIDER. In
the event that a DEVELOPER or SUBDIVIDER is not the record owner, then both
shall sign and be responsible for all submittals and the performance
thereunder.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to real estate or property, including:
      (1)   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of
property;
      (2)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
      (3)   Construction of roads, bridges or similar projects;
      (4)   Redevelopment of a site;
      (5)   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, excavating, paving or other
nonagricultural alterations of a ground surface;
      (6)   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste; or
      (7)   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction or velocity of stormwater flows from a property.
   DIMENSIONS. In relation to the size of a lot, refers to both lot depth and
lot width.
   EASEMENT. A right to use a portion of another person's real property for
certain limited purposes.
   ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure the
completion of improvements within a subdivision.
   EXCAVATION. Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or
any other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed, and shall include the conditions resulting
from these actions.
   FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, rubble or concrete is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
humans to a new location used to build up a piece of ground, and including the
conditions resulting therefrom. Sod, frozen material, organic matter or any
other material which by decay or otherwise might cause settlement, shall not be
utilized as FILL.
   FINAL PLAT. The final engineering, survey, maps, drawings and supporting
material indicating the subdivider's plan of the subdivision which, if
approved, may be filed with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street side] of a lot.
   GRADE (GRADIENT). The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way
expressed as a percentage; synonym for SLOPE.
   GRADE, EXISTING. The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior
to excavation or filling.
   GRADE, FINAL. The vertical location of the ground or pavement surface after
grading work is completed.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill, or any combination thereof, and including the
conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
   GREEN SPACE. Land devoted to park, recreation or other open space which is
not part of an individual lot occupied by another principal use such as a
house.
   IDOTSTANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The current edition of the Illinois Department
of Transportation's STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR ROAD AND BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION
are the standards to which the streets must be constructed.
   IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the facilities to be installed in or in conjunction
with a subdivision.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any site grading or street, curb and gutter, sidewalk,
drainage ditch, sewer, catch basin, newly planted tree, off-street parking area
or other facility necessary for the general use of property owners in a
subdivision.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way (generally
streets) meet.
   LETTER OF CREDIT. An irrevocable cash assurance pledged by a financial
institution on behalf of a subdivider/developer, and provided in lieu of a
surety bond as a means of guaranteeing the installation of required
improvements within or in conjunction with a subdivision.
   LOT. An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
   LOT AREA, GROSS. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side
and rear lines of a lot, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a
duly recorded lake, river or stormwater management pond. For those lots that
include property under water, GROSS LOT AREA shall be considered as the area of
a horizontal plane bounded by the 100-year flood high water mark along all
banks and the remaining lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street. The point of intersection of the street
lines is the corner. Both these side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of subdivision
recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds, in accordance with state law.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both these lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property not by
reference to a lot or block shown on a recorded subdivision plat, but in terms
of a known point and the bearings and distances of the lines forming the
boundaries of the property.
   ON RECORD. Officially adopted by the legislative body of a municipality,
township, county, state or other governmental entity; or officially adopted by
a department of the state (e.g., IDOT). Generally, materials which are ON
RECORD may be found in the office of the County Recorder of Deeds, but certain
other legal materials such as state regulations or municipal ordinances that
cannot be found in the office of the Recorder of Deeds shall nonetheless be
deemed ON RECORD.
   OWNER. A person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to
be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
these regulations.
   PARCEL. All contiguous land in one ownership.
   PARKWAY. The area, normally grass covered, between the back of curb/gutter
and the right-of-way lines or from the back of curb/gutter to the sidewalk.
   P.C.C. Portland cement concrete.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a building permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any natural person, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
association, club, company, corporation, business, trust or organization, or
the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of any of them.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city, which is a group
appointed by the Mayor tasked with reviewed planning and zoning issues.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary engineering, survey, maps, drawings and
supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a subdivision.
   PRIME FARMLAND. Land that is best suited to food, feed, forage, fiber and
oilseed crops. It may be cropland, pasture, woodland or other land, but it is
not urban and built-up land or water areas. It is either used for food or fiber
or is available for those uses. The soil qualities, growing season and moisture
supply are those needed for a well-managed soil to economically produce a
sustained high yield of crops. PRIME FARMLAND produces the highest yields with
minimum inputs of energy and economic resources, and farming it results in the
least damage to the environment.
   PROPERTY. A parcel of real estate.
   RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition by
the city (or other governmental entity) for public purposes.
   RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and adjacent
lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property deed as
land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
   REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an “S” shape.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or other unit of government for streets, alleys and other
public improvements.
   SETBACK LINE. A line that is usually parallel to the front, side or rear
property line of a lot, thereby establishing the minimum distance a building
must be placed away from the lot line. Minimum setback requirements are set
forth in
Chapter 154.
   SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PRIVATE. A sewer system including collection and treatment
facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in an
outlying area.
   SIDEWALK. A pedestrian way constructed in compliance with the standards of
this chapter generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
   SITE. A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where work is
performed as a single unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT. Altering terrain and/or vegetation and construction
improvements.
   STOP WORK ORDER. An order used by the Code Administrator to halt work in
progress that is in violation of this chapter.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A major street or highway with the main function of
traffic mobility. Arterial's carry high volumes of traffic (greater than 3,000
vehicles/day) at high vehicular speeds (greater than or equal to 45 mph).
Arterial routes typically interconnect to other arterials, provide intra-
community continuity, but do not penetrate identifiable neighborhoods.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street of considerable continuity, including the
principal entrance street(s) of residential developments and the principal
circulating street(s) within the developments, which carries or is proposed to
carry intermediate volumes of traffic (500 to 3,000 vehicles/ day) from land
access streets to arterials. For example, since a residential home creates ten
trips per day on average, a roadway supplying 50 residential homes or more
would be categorized as a collector street.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having only one outlet for vehicular
traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a turnaround for
vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to the turnaround.
   STREET, FRONTAGE ROAD. A “minor” street, parallel with and adjacent to, or
in the immediate vicinity of, an arterial street or limited access highway,
used for local access to abutting lots, and therefore relieving the arterials
from providing this access.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street that is not an arterial or collector that functions
to provide direct access to abutting land. Local streets carry low traffic
volumes (less than and 500 vehicles/day) at low vehicular speeds (less than or
equal to 30 mph).
   STREET, LOCAL (COMMERCIAL). A street normally serving limited amounts of
commercial traffic; used primarily for access to the commercial properties.
Service to through-traffic movements is deliberately discouraged. Typically,
these streets serve one development or a group of small developments at the
discretion of the city depending on the intensity of the commercial use(s).
   STREET, LOCAL (RESIDENTIAL). A street normally serving limited amounts of
residential traffic; used primarily for access to abutting residential
properties, sometimes with more than one outlet, but not typically a through
route. Typically, these streets serve less than 50 dwelling units.
   STREET, TEMPORARY STUB. A street that is temporarily terminated without the
use of a cul-de-sac because it is planned for future continuation.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines delineating the pavement
width of a street, usually measured from back-of-curb to back-of-curb (unless
noted otherwise). Not to be confused with right-of-way width, which includes
both pavement and parkways.
   STRIPPING. Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, estate
or other group or combination acting as a unit, and dividing or proposing to
divide land in a manner that constitutes a subdivision as defined herein;
synonymous with DEVELOPER. In the event that a SUBDIVIDER or developer is not
the record owner, then both shall sign and be responsible for all submittals
and the performance thereunder.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, except as provided
otherwise in the list of exceptions set forth in the Plat Act (ILCS Ch. 765,
Act 205, § 1). The term SUBDIVISION includes re-subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two but not more than four lots,
all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new streets,
other rights-of-way, easements, improvements or other provisions for public
areas and facilities.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of land.
   TRAFFIC ASSESSMENT STUDY (TAS). A TAS is required when 500 or more daily
vehicle trips are anticipated to be generated by the development or if the
development is anticipated to cause severe impacts on either the street system
or nearby neighborhoods. It shall identify when a collector street is
warranted, internal neighborhood circulation issues, potential connections
within and from the development, stop sign and traffic signal locations using
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices warrants, adjacent road network
improvements, or other such system capacities and evaluations. Proposed trips
shall be estimated using the most recent version of the Institute of Traffic
Engineer's (ITE) Trip Generation Manual or by counting a similar existing
development. Trips shall be assigned to the proposed street network using a
trip generation model.
   VACANT. Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
   VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of right-of-way or subdivision and
to so note on the final plat recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
   VARIATION, SUBDIVISION. A relaxation in the strict application of the design
and improvement standards set forth in this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A designated area within the corporate limits of the city
wherein certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots and uses under the terms of the Troy Zoning Code; codified in
Chapter 154.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-2-2, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
GENERAL DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS; STANDARDS FOR LOTS
§ 153.020 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Streets, sanitary sewer systems and water treatment and distribution
represent major investments in a community. These improvements should be
constructed in such a manner so that they become enduring assets to the
community. In order to assure that improvements constructed by a subdivision
developer for dedication to the public are resilient, this subchapter sets
forth appropriate design and construction standards. The design and improvement
standards set forth herein shall be deemed the minimum requirements for public
health, safety and general welfare. Nothing contained in this subchapter shall
be construed as preventing the subdivider from constructing improvements that
exceed these requirements.
   (B)   (1)   No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city, other
than land that is specifically exempted from the requirements of the Illinois
Plats Act (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § l(b)), shall be subdivided or developed
except in compliance with the regulations of this subchapter and the applicable
provisions of state law (see ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8; ILCS Ch. 765, Act
205, §§ 1 et seq.).
      (2)   No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed until:
         (a)   The final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the City
Council and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds; and
         (b)   The portion of the subdivision of which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until
an irrevocable letter of credit or some other acceptable assurance has been
posted to warrant the completion of the improvements.
      (3)   No building permit shall be issued to allow construction on any lot
conveyed in violation of this section, and any so issued shall be made invalid
by the violation.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-1, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.021 GENERAL SUITABILITY FOR SUBDIVISION.
   Land which the City Council determines to be unsuitable for development due
to probable flooding, poor drainage, rough topography, adverse soil conditions,
being identified as “open space” on the city's “Future Land Use Plan,” or other
conditions that, in the opinion of the City Engineer, will prove detrimental to
the health, safety and/or general welfare of the future inhabitants of the
tract and/or surrounding areas shall not be subdivided or developed unless the
developer submits plans and methods that the City Engineer deems adequate to
resolve or avoid the problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-2, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.022 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter and the city to facilitate the design
of new subdivisions and developments that are in compliance with the provisions
and procedures outlined herein. As such, the city has developed the standard
specification plan sheets in §
153.005.
   (B)   The plan sheets are included in Appendix A and made a part hereof by
reference. The city shall make the plan sheets available to all subdividers/
developers, who are thereafter encouraged to include them within the
construction plans for the proposed development. By doing so, the subdivider/
developer can more easily make the requirements of this chapter known to the
contractors responsible for the construction and installation of improvements
within the development.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-3, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.023 STANDARDS FOR LOTS.
   The planning and development of lots shall be done in such a manner so as to
assure compliance with
Chapter 154. In order to help achieve this result, every subdivider shall
comply with the requirements herein.
   (A)   All lots in any subdivision within the city shall conform to the
minimum lot area and dimension requirements of the zoning district in which the
subdivision is located.
   (B)   All lots in any subdivision outside the city shall conform to the
minimum lot area and dimension requirements of the city's zoning district which
is most appropriate, as determined by the Administrator of this code.
   (C)   Land contained with natural lakefront lots that is under water when
the lake is at its 100-year pool elevation, or land reserved for street
improvements, shall not be counted in determining compliance with minimum lot
size requirements.
   (D)   If possible, the creation of through lots should be avoided in all new
subdivisions.
   (E)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the zoning district's front setback requirement on every side
of the lot that faces a street.
   (F)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the creation
of unbuildable or nonconforming parcels.
   (G)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-
of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way lines, except where the
City Engineer has determined that a deviation from this requirement will
provide a street and lot design more beneficial to the city.
   (H)   All side lot lines of lots which front a cul-de-sac shall be at right
angles to the centerline of the cul-de-sac until the point at which the
centerline meets the center of the cul-de-sac turnaround. Side lot lines beyond
that point shall be radial to the center of the cul-de-sac turnaround except
where the City Engineer has determined that a deviation from this requirement
will provide a street and lot design more beneficial to the city.
   (I)   Land contained within the 100-year pool elevation for stormwater
detention/retention ponds shall not be counted in determining compliance with
minimum lot size requirements.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-4, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.024 STREET FRONTAGE REQUIRED.
   All land to be subdivided shall be divided in such a way that each lot abuts
a public street meeting the requirements of §§
153.040 through
153.044.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-5, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.025 REFERENCE MONUMENTS REQUIRED.
   In accordance with “An Act to revise the law in relation to plats,” ILCS Ch.
765, Act 205, §§ 1(a) et seq., as amended from time to time, reference
monuments shall be erected by each subdivider as follows.
   (A)   In the field. Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments, set in
the ground in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost, shall be
placed in the field, at opposite corners of the subdivision.
   (B)   At lot corners.
      (1)   Every lot corner shall be marked by an iron pin or pipe, at least
one-half inch in diameter and not less than 24 inches long, driven into the
ground deep enough that they do not protrude above the surface more than one
and one-half inches.
      (2)   No lot in any subdivision shall be sold unless the corners of the
lot are marked as specified above at the time of sale.
   (C)   Front lot corners. Front lot corners abutting a platted street shall
be extended to the street and marked in the curb by a saw cut “T” (minimum of
one-fourth inch deep and maximum of one-half inch deep) in addition to the lot
pins required above.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-6, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
GENERAL STANDARDS FOR STREETS
§ 153.035 STANDARDS FOR GRADING.
   (A)   All grading necessitated for the construction of pavement, curb and
gutter, sidewalks, right-of-way and drainage facilities shall be done in such a
manner so as to assure a uniform subgrade with adequate bearing capacity to
properly support the loading/structures to be superimposed.
   (B)   All topsoil shall be removed from areas proposed for the construction
of pavement, curb and gutter, or sidewalks, and under no circumstances shall
the improvements be constructed on topsoil or on any other soil not capable of
meeting the specifications for compaction specified herein.
   (C)   Construction specifications. Work shall be completed according to the
following sections in the IDOT Standard Specifications:
      (1)   Section 201 for clearing;
      (2)   Section 202 for earth excavation;
      (3)   Section 204 for borrow and furnished excavation; and
      (4)   Section 205 for embankment.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-11, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.036 SUBGRADES.
   Subgrade is the unimproved earth below the pavement structure, shoulders, or
other appurtenances.
   (A)   All city streets and sidewalks shall be constructed with a four inch
thick minimum layer of granular subgrade beneath the pavement.
   (B)   Construction specifications. The contractor is responsible to prepare
subgrades properly graded to the lines and grades shown on the plans for the
given project and according to IDOT Standard Specifications Section 301 except
as otherwise noted.
   (C)   The standard laboratory density shall be the A minimum 95% compaction
as determined by ASTM Specifications D-698 for clayey materials and a minimum
relative density of 95% as determined by ASTM Specifications D2049 for granular
materials.
   (D)   Compaction shall be achieved with a roller capable of properly
compacting the given type of embankment material; in the case of fine-grained
soils, a sheepsfoot roller is required.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-12, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.037 SOIL SUBGRADE MODIFICATION.
   This work shall consist of modifying the subgrade with water and a modifier
to increase resiliency.
   (A)   All city streets shall be constructed with an improved subgrade, which
will consist of a 12 inch thick layer of lime, cement modified subgrade, or
aggregate granular material as recommended by a geotechnical engineer.
   (B)   Construction specifications. The contractor is responsible to prepare
modified subgrades properly graded to the lines and grades shown on the plans
for the given project and according to IDOT Standard Specifications § 302
except as otherwise noted.
   (C)   Proportioning. If lime or cement modified soil is proposed, a mix
design for the proportions of modifier, soil, and water is required. The mix
design should be based on actual soil samples and prepared by a geotechnical
engineer licensed in the State of Illinois. Modifiers shall be proportioned
within a range of 2% to 6% of the weight of soil based on the oven dry basis.
   (D)   Lime or cement modifiers shall not be applied when wind conditions are
such that blowing modifiers become objectionable to adjacent property owners,
or creates a hazard to traffic on adjacent highways. In a densely developed
area - especially a residential area - the code enforcement official may
require lime or cement modifiers be applied in a slurry form to avoid blowing.
   (E)   A rotary speed mixer is required for tilling the modifier (i.e., lime
or cement).
   (F)   Water and the modifier shall be directly injected into the soil with
equipment capable of measuring the application rate to ensure adherence to the
mix design.
   (G)   Substitutions. If subgrade soil modification is impractical, the City
Engineer may allow a 12 inch thick granular (i.e., rock) subbase according to §
153.038.
(Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 153.038 GRANULAR SUBBASE.
   The subbase is the improved layer constructed on the prepared subgrade below
the pavement.
   (A)   Construction specifications. Where granular subbase is required, the
subdivider/developer shall use “subbase granular material, Type A,” conforming
to Section 311 - Granular Subbase of the IDOT Standard Specifications except as
otherwise noted.
   (B)   When constructing the subbase, if a soft spot in the soil subgrade is
discovered, it shall be undercut to remove the unsuitable soft or spongy areas
to the satisfaction of the city. The excavation shall be backfilled with CA-
1 aggregate to bring the subject area back up to the subgrade elevation.
   (C)   To avoid segregation, a suitable spreader box or paver shall be used
to place granular subbase.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-14, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.039 COMPACTION VERIFICATION.
   The developer shall be responsible for providing soils testing results to
the City Engineer to verify compliance with compaction requirements listed in
the IDOT Standard Specifications.
   (A)   In general, soils tests shall be taken every 200 feet, eight feet off
of the centerline; at intersecting streets; and at sag (low) points.
   (B)   A written report from a registered professional engineer, certifying
that soils throughout the embankment and subgrade material uniformly meet the
compaction requirements, shall be provided to the city at least 24 hours prior
to paving or pouring curb and gutter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-15, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.040 TYPICAL STREET SECTIONS.
   All streets under the jurisdiction of the city shall be classified by the
city and the classification shall determine the standards to which the streets
must be constructed. If the proper classification of any street is unknown, or
if a new street is proposed for construction, the city shall review the
existing or proposed street and thereafter establish a classification using the
criteria listed in §
153.008 for local, collector, and arterial streets, or according to the city’s
“Future Land-Use Plan.”
   (A)   The design of all streets within any subdivision shall be according to
the policies outlined in the IDOT Bureau of Local Roads and Street Manual and
properly integrated with the city’s street system.
   (B)   Measurement of pavement width for streets shall be made from back-to-
back of the curbs. Measurement of pavement width for alleys, where curbs are
not required, shall be from edge to edge.
TABLE 153.040: STREET CLASSIFICATION
TABLE 153.040: STREET CLASSIFICATION
Arterial/Industrial
   Minimum right-of-way wid80 feet
   Minimum pavement width  31 to 51 feet (depending on required options)
Collector (Commercial)
   Minimum right-of-way wid70 feet
   Minimum pavement width  41 to 46 feet (depending on required options)
Collector (Residential)
   Minimum right-of-way wid60 feet
   Minimum pavement width  36 feet
Local (Commercial)
   Minimum right-of-way wid60 feet
   Minimum pavement width  34 feet
Local (Residential)
   Minimum right-of-way wid50 feet
   Minimum pavement width  32 feet
Local (Residential - R-1E)
   Minimum right-of-way wid50 feet
   Minimum pavement width  20 feet with 2 foot gravel shoulders
Alley
   Minimum right-of-way wid25 feet
   Minimum pavement width  18 feet
 
   (C)   Profile Grade. Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible
to the natural topography and be between 0.5% (min.) and 8.0% (max). Building
sites shall be at least one foot above street grade.
   (D)   Lane cross-slope. The transverse slope across the driving lanes shall
be 1.5% minimum to 2.0% maximum.
   (E)   Design speed. Arterials shall be designed using a design speed of 45
mph. Commercial collectors shall use a design speed of 40 mph. All other
streets will be posted 30 mph.
   (F)   All streets shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete or hot
mix asphalt pavement. The developer may select the pavement type for the City
Engineer’s approval.
   (G)   Construction Specifications. Work shall be completed according to the
following sections in the IDOT standard specifications, unless otherwise
directed by the City Engineer. Other sections may apply.
      (1)   Section 407 for hot-mix asphalt pavement.
      (2)   Section 420 for Portland cement concrete pavement.
      (3)   Section 424 for Portland cement concrete sidewalk.
      (4)   Section 606 for concrete gutters, curbs, and medians.
   (H)   Alleys may be provided in single-family residential districts at the
option of the developer, but may be required in other districts in the absence
of other provisions for service access.
      (1)   When provided, alleys shall not intersect with each other or change
sharply in alignment.
      (2)   Adequate vehicular turnaround space shall be provided at the
terminus of every dead-end alley.
(Ord. 2009-21, §18.5-3-16, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 153.041 MATERIALS FOR FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   If selecting flexible pavement, all streets and alleys shall be constructed,
solely at the expense of the subdivider/developer, in conformance with the
requirements set forth in Table 153.042 with the provisions outlined herein,
and with the standard specification plan sheets.
   (A)   Revised pavement design. Should the City Engineer determine that the
city's minimum pavement standards are not adequate for a given condition,
including, vehicle volume, size of loads, truck volume, subgrade support or
drainage, a revised pavement design shall be proposed by the developer's
engineer, subject to all provisions and procedures of the current pavement
design which remain applicable, and subject to the review of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Conformance to standards. If required, the revised pavement design
shall be according to Section 44-4 of the IDOT “Bureau of Local Roads and
Street Manual.”
   (C)   Bituminous prime coat materials. A bituminous prime coat shall be used
on all granular subbases. No hot-mix asphalt shall be placed directly upon a
granular subbase. Prime coat shall be according to IDOT Standard
Specifications, Section 406.
 
TABLE 153.041: BITUMINOUS MATERIALS
Type of Construction                   Bituminous Materials
Prime (tack) on brick, concrete or HMA SS-1, SS-1h, CSS-1, CSS-1h, HFE 90, RC-
bases                                  70, SS-1hP, CS-1hP
Prime on aggregate bases               MC-30
 
   (D)   Hot-mix asphalt mixtures. All mixes shall be manufactured in state-
based plants and within the tolerance limits of the mixing formula provided by
IDOT to the plants for the mixture.
   (E)   Hot-mix asphalt binder course shall conform to IDOT Standard
Specifications, Section 406 and shall conform to the following mix design:
      (1)   Asphaltic content/ performance grade (AC/PG): PG 64-22;
      (2)   Thickness (min): overall thickness listed in Table 153.042
exclusive of surface course;
      (3)   RAP % (max): 10%;
      (4)   Design air voids: 4.0% at Ndes=70;
      (5)   Mix composition: IL-19.0; and
      (6)   Friction aggregate: Mixture “B.”
   (F)   Hot-mix asphalt surface course shall conform to IDOT Standard
Specifications, Section 406 and shall conform to the following mix design:
      (1)   Asphaltic content/ performance grade (AC/PG): PG 64-22;
      (2)   Thickness (min): 2 inch;
      (3)   RAP % (max): 10%;
      (4)   Design air voids: 4.0% at Ndes=70;
      (5)   Mix composition: IL - 9.5; and
      (6)   Friction aggregate: mixture “C.”
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-17, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.042 EQUIPMENT AND PROCEDURES FOR FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Hot-mix asphalt pavement shall be laid with a self-propelled paver as
specified in Section 407 of the IDOT Standard Specifications to the following
thicknesses:
TABLE 153.042: STRUCTURAL COMPOSITION - FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT
TABLE 153.042: STRUCTURAL COMPOSITION - FLEXIBLE PAVEMENT
Arterial
   Overall thickness    13 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
Collector (Commercial)
   Overall thickness    10 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
Collector (Residential)
   Overall thickness    9 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
Local (Commercial)
   Overall thickness    8 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
Local (Residential)
   Overall thickness    8 inch minimum
Local (Residential - R-1E)  
Overall thickness          8 inch minimum
Alley
   Overall thickness    6 inch minimum
 
   (B)   The minimum width of any single pass of the spreader/ paver shall be
capable of producing a lane width equivalent to Y2 of the roadway width, with
no single pass being less than 15 foot-wide in variable width areas such as
cul-de-sacs.
   (C)   The final surface course shall be placed so that following compaction
the roadway surface is above the gutter flag by 1/4-inch.
      (1)   Care shall be taken to assure that the final surface course
properly meets drainage grates, manhole frames and valve boxes.
      (2)   The final surface shall be neat and uniform in appearance.
(Ord. 2009-21, §18.5-3-18, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 153.043 MATERIALS FOR RIGID PAVEMENT CONSTRUCTION.
   If selecting rigid pavement, all streets and alleys shall be constructed,
solely at the expense of the subdivider/developer, in conformance with the
requirements set forth in Table 153.044, with the provisions outlined herein,
and with the standard specification plan sheets.
   (A)   Revised pavement design. Should the City Engineer or Administrator of
this code determine that the city's minimum pavement standards are not adequate
for a given condition, including vehicle volume, size of loads, truck volume,
subgrade support or drainage, a revised pavement design shall be proposed by
the developer's engineer, subject to all provisions and procedures of the
current pavement design which remain applicable, and subject to the review of
the City Engineer.
   (B)   Conformance to standards. If required, the revised pavement design
shall be according to Section 44-4 of the IDOT "Bureau of Local Roads and
Street Manual".
   (C)   Concrete admixtures. Concrete admixtures shall conform to Section 1021
- Concrete Admixtures of the IDOT Standard Specifications; provided, however,
that chloride based accelerators shall not exceed 0.3% by mass.
   (D)   Concrete haul time. The maximum haul time for concrete transported in
truck mixers or truck agitators shall be in accordance with the following:
 
TABLE 153.043(D): CONCRETE HAUL TIME
Concrete Temperature at Point of Discharge Maximum Haul Time
50–64°F                                 1 hour, 30 minutes
65–90°F                                 1 hour (without retarder)
65–90°F                                 1 hour, 30 minutes (with retarder)
 
   (E)   Portland cement specifications. Portland cement concrete shall be
Class PV as specified in Section 1020 - Portland Cement Concrete of the IDOT
Standard Specifications.
   (F)   Pavement reinforcement. For those street classifications in Table
153.044 for which standard reinforcement: wire mesh is required, the
subdivider/developer shall use welded wire fabric conforming to AASHTO M 55.
      (1)   The wire fabric shall be six inches by 12 inches with W4 wire
transversely and W6.5 fabric longitudinally.
      (2)   The fabric shall be lapped 12 inches on the transverse laps and six
inches on the longitudinal laps.
      (3)   Reinforcement shall be placed on the subgrade and supported by
proper chairs and spacers prior to paving.
   (G)   Membrane curing compound.
      (1)   After the concrete has been finished and immediately after the
water sheen has disappeared from the surface of the concrete, the surface shall
be sealed with membrane curing compound as approved by IDOT.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall polyethylene sheeting be placed on the
pavement prior to initial set that would cause marking on the pavement surface.
   (H)   Load transfer devices.
      (1)   Dowel bars shall be smooth, plain, round bars conforming to the
requirements of AASHTO M-227 grades 70 through 80.
      (2)   Tie bars (deformed) shall conform to the requirements of AASHTO M-
31 Grade 40.
   (I)   Joint sealer. Joint filling compound shall be rubberized asphalt
conforming to the requirements of AASHTO M-173.
   (J)   Underlayment. When required, underlayment shall be of one-fourth inch
thick fabric such as “bidmin,” “Petromat” or equal.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-19, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.044 EQUIPMENT AND PROCEDURES FOR RIGID PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Construction specifications. This work shall consist of constructing
rigid (Portland cement concrete pavement) according to Section 420 of the IDOT
Standard Specifications, except as modified as follows:
      (1)   The finishing machine shall be of a type approved by the City
Engineer, and shall be capable of striking off, consolidating and finishing
concrete to the consistency required by the specifications to the proper crown
and grade.
      (2)   A mechanical longitudinal float will not be required.
      (3)   Hand held fogging equipment capable of spraying a uniform
application of membrane curing compound and maintaining constant pressure
meeting the approval of the Engineer, will be allowed.
      (4)   Longitudinal float hand method will be permitted if approved by the
City Engineer.
      (5)   Type A final finish shall be used throughout the project unless
directed otherwise by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Subgrade preparation. Prior to placement of concrete on the subgrade/
subbase, the grade shall be checked for proper depth with a template or a
string line (if forms are used), or with before and after elevation shots for
slip-form work.
      (1)   Dry subgrades shall be made wet in advance of concrete placement.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall concrete be placed on a frozen
subgrade.
   (C)   Pavement thicknesses. Concrete pavement shall be construction to the
following thicknesses:
TABLE 153.044: STRUCTURAL COMPOSITION - RIGID PAVEMENT
TABLE 153.044: STRUCTURAL COMPOSITION - RIGID PAVEMENT
Arterial/Industrial
   Thickness        10 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
   Reinforcement    Wire mesh required
   Traverse joints  40 foot o.c. with 18 inch long no. 6 dowels every 12
                       inch o.c.
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
Collector (Commercial)
   Thickness        9 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
   Reinforcement    Wire mesh required
   Traverse joints  40 foot o.c. with 18 inch long no. 6 dowels every 12
                       inch o.c.
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
Collector (Residential)
   Thickness        8 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
   Reinforcement    None
   Traverse joints  15 foot un-dowled transverse contraction joints
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
Local (Commercial)
   Thickness        8 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
   Reinforcement    None
   Traverse joints  15 foot un-dowled transverse contraction joints
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
Local (Residential)
   Thickness        8 inch minimum
   Reinforcement    None
   Traverse joints  15 foot un-dowled transverse contraction joints
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
Alley
   Thickness        7 inch minimum design based on traffic estimates
   Reinforcement    None
   Traverse joints  15 foot un-dowled transverse contraction joints
   Longitudinal join30 inch no. 6 tie bars every 30 inch o.c.
 
   (D)   Placement and finishing. Plastic Portland cement concrete shall be
deposited on the grade in successive batches as a continuous operation and in
such a manner so as to require a minimal amount of rehandling or segregation.
      (1)   No batch/load shall be incorporated that has been in the truck
longer than the maximum allowed haul time, as stated herein.
      (2)   The operation shall be coordinated in such a manner so as to have
the mixture struck off and consolidated within 30 minutes of being deposited on
grade.
      (3)   The finishing floats shall be passed across the entire surface a
minimum of two times with an overlap of 50% between successive locations along
the pavement.
   (E)   Straightedge testing.
      (1)   After the operation of the slip-form paver, the finishing machine
or the longitudinal float, but while the concrete is still plastic, the
pavement surface shall be tested with a ten-foot straightedge.
         (a)   High areas shall be cut down and refinished with a five-foot
float.
         (b)   The corrected area shall be checked again with the ten foot
straightedge.
      (2)   The straightedge shall be held in successive positions parallel to
the pavement centerline in contact with the surface.
   (F)   Pavement joints.
      (1)   All pavement joints shall be according to the standard details.
      (2)   All bars shall be epoxy coated.
      (3)   All joints (transverse or longitudinal) shall be sealed with an
approved hot-pour joint sealer according to Sections 451 and 452 of the
“Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction,” except the crack
sealant shall be Crafco Sealant or approved equal according to ASTM D5167.
         (a)   Prior to traffic being allowed on newly placed concrete
pavement, all sawed joints are to be thoroughly cleaned of all foreign
material, including membrane curing compound prior to sealing operations.
         (b)   The joint faces shall be clean and surface dry when the seal is
applied.
      (4)   Contraction joints.
         (a)   Transverse construction joints. 
            1.   All transverse construction joints shall be formed by means of
a suitable header, accurately set and securely held in place in a plane
perpendicular to the surface of the pavement.
            2.   All transverse construction joints shall be “tied” with no. 6
deformed bars, 30 inches long, spaced at 24-inch centers.
         (b)   Longitudinal construction joint. When adjacent lanes of pavement
or pavement and curb and gutter are constructed separately, the subdivider/
developer shall install epoxy-coated deformed steel tie bars across the
longitudinal construction joint, as detailed in the standard specification plan
sheets, in order to tie the lanes together.
            1.   The epoxy coated tie bars shall be installed in preformed or
drilled holes along the vertical edge of the first pour, using an approved non-
shrink grout or chemical adhesive to provide a minimum pull requirement of
11,000 lbs. for no. 6 bars.
            2.   As an option, a trapezoidal metal joint type C (preformed
keyway) as specified by IDOT and shown in the standard specification plan
sheets may be utilized in lieu of tie bars.
         (c)   Construction joints must be at least five feet from a
contraction joint.
      (5)   Sawed joints.
         (a)   Longitudinal sawed joint. The developer shall install
longitudinal joints along the centerline of two lane pavements, assuring that
the joints are no closer than eight feet or farther than 15 feet apart
according to the standard details.
         (b)   Transverse sawed contraction joints. The developer shall install
transverse sawed contraction joins, consisting of planes of weakness created by
cutting grooves in the surface of the pavement as specified in the standard
drawings. Where specified in
Table 153.044, load transfer devices consisting of dowel bars supported on an
approved dowel bar assembly shall be provided.
         (c)   The joints shall be sawed within 24 hours of concrete placement
or as soon as the concrete has hardened sufficiently to permit sawing without
excessive raveling.
      (6)   Expansion joints.
         (a)   To prevent street creep, type A3 four-inch seamless rubber
expansion joints shall be installed as depicted on Standard Specifications Plan
Sheet T-2A.
         (b)   Expansion joints at driveways, entrances and the like. All
entrances, driveways and accessways where concrete abuts the pavement or curb
and gutter shall be provided with a 3/4-inch thick pre-molded expansion joint
at the interface of the street pavement (or back of curb) and driveway
pavement, entrance pavement or accessway pavement. In addition, a 3/4-inch
expansion joint shall be provided at all interfaces between the driveway or
entrance pavement and proposed residential or commercial structure.
   (G)   Curing procedures. Following the application of the finished texture,
and as soon as possible without marring the surface, the pavement shall be
coated with membrane curing compound as required.
      (1)   In doing so the contractor shall ensure that adequate and uniform
coverage is achieved.
      (2)   Two separate applications applied at least one minute apart, each
at the rate of not less than one gallon per 250 square feet will be required
upon the surface.
      (3)   Type III compound shall be agitated immediately before and during
the application.
      (4)   Membrane curing is not permitted where a protective coat or
waterproofing is to be applied, or at any area where rubbing or a normal finish
is required, or at construction joints other than those necessary in pavement
or base course.
      (5)   Curing shall be maintained for a minimum of 72 hours.
   (H)   Cold weather protection. When the National Weather Bureau forecast for
the construction area predicts a temperature of 32°F or lower, or if the actual
temperature drops below 32°F or lower, concrete less than 72 hours old shall be
protected in the following manner:
      (1)   If the temperature is predicted to fall or falls to 25°F to 32°F,
protection shall consist of two layers of polyethylene sheeting or one layer of
polyethylene and one layer of burlap, or two layers of waterproof paper.
      (2)   If the temperature is predicted to fall or falls below 25°F,
protection shall consist of six inches of straw covered with one layer of
polyethylene sheeting or waterproof paper placed after initial set of the
concrete.
   (I)   Traffic restriction. Traffic shall be restricted on newly placed
concrete streets by barricades and appropriate signs for a period of 14 days,
provided that the City Engineer may increase the time period depending upon
site location and conditions such as weather.
   (J)   Protective coat.
         (1)   Whenever pavement is constructed after October 15 and it will be
opened to traffic prior to the following April 15, or whenever directed to do
so by the City Engineer or Administrator, the subdivider/developer shall apply
a protective surface treatment consisting of two coats of boiled linseed oil
mixture to the surface of the pavement and all appurtenances.
         (2)   The protective coat shall conform to Section 1023 - Protective
Coat of the IDOT Standard Specifications, and is to be applied when the
concrete is at least 14 days old and before the pavement is opened to traffic.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-20, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.045 SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONCRETE IN NON-PAVEMENT AREAS.
   It is the intent of this section to establish minimum quality control
requirements for Portland cement concrete construction used in areas other than
pavement, in order to assure durable and functional installations that are
workmanlike in appearance.
   (A)   Mix proportions. Portland cement concrete to be used for the
construction of structures such as sidewalks, paved ditches, drainageways and
medians, and shall conform to the specific mix design criteria as listed Table
153.045 below.
   (B)   Concrete admixtures.
      (1)   Concrete admixtures shall conform to Section 1201 - Concrete
Admixtures of the IDOT Standard Specifications.
      (2)   Calcium chloride shall not be added to concrete mixtures except
during cold weather construction, and at that time shall not exceed 2%.
TABLE 153.045: PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS
TABLE 153.045: PORTLAND CEMENT CONCRETE SPECIFICATIONS
All Non-Pavement Areas IDOT Class of Concrete SI
Mix Design:                                   Type I, Cement
Minimum Compressive Strength:                 3,500 psi
Minimum Flexural Strength:                    650 psi
Coarse Aggregates Permitted:                  CA-7 and CA-11
Or                                            CA-14
* Slump in inches:                            2 in. to 4 in.
Air Content:                                  5–8%
Cement Factor (cwt/c.y.):                     6.05
* A slump above the maximum specified may be used with the City Engineer’s
approval, up to a maximum of 3 inches provided the water/cement ratio does not
exceed 0.42
 
   (C)   All Portland cement concrete shall be placed in an acceptable and
workmanlike manner and at such a consistency that the plastic mixture is
workable but does not exceed the slumps stated herein.
      (1)   No batch/load shall be incorporated that has been in the truck
longer than the maximum allowed haul time, as stated in §
153.043(D).
      (2)   The mixture shall be properly consolidated by vibrator or spading
prior to or concurrently with the strike-off operation.
      (3)   All concrete shall be worked sufficiently to bring one-eighth inch
to one-fourth inch of mortar to the surface to allow for proper finishing.
      (4)   Care shall be exercised to avoid segregation of the mixture.
   (D)   Subgrade. Under no circumstances shall concrete be placed on a spongy
or frozen subgrade.
   (E)   Forms.
      (1)   Forms shall be of wood or metal, straight and free from bend or
warp, and be clean and securely staked and braced prior to placement of
concrete in order to prevent vertical movement during placement and finishing
operations.
      (2)   Forms may deviate from true straightness over a ten-foot length no
more than three-eighths inch horizontally or one-fourth inch vertically, as
determined with a string line.
   (F)   Finished texture. Subsequent to initial set, and prior to hardening of
the surface, the concrete shall be given a broomed finish at right angles to
the centerline of the road, or to the flow line, so that the surface is
indented to a nominal depth of one-sixteenth inch.
   (G)   Curing procedures. Following the application of the finished texture,
and as soon as possible without marring the surface, the pavement shall be
coated with membrane curing compound as required.
      (1)   In doing so the contractor shall ensure that adequate and uniform
coverage is achieved.
      (2)   Two separate applications applied at least one minute apart, each
at the rate of not less than one gallon per 250 square feet will be required
upon the surface.
      (3)   Type III compound shall be agitated immediately before and during
the application.
      (4)   Membrane curing is not permitted where a protective coat or
waterproofing is to be applied, or at any area where rubbing or a normal finish
is required, or at construction joints other than those necessary in pavement
or base course.
      (5)   Curing shall be maintained for a minimum of 72 hours.
   (H)   Cold weather protection. When the National Weather Bureau Forecast for
the construction area predicts a temperature of 30°F or lower, or if the actual
temperature drops below 32°F or lower, concrete less than 72 hours old shall be
protected in the following manner:
      (1)   If the temperature is predicted to fall or falls to 25°F to 32°F,
protection shall consist of two layers of polyethylene sheeting or one layer of
polyethylene and one layer of burlap, or two layers of waterproof paper.
      (2)   If the temperature is predicted to fall or falls below 25°F,
protection shall consist of six inches of straw covered with one layer of
polyethylene sheeting or waterproof paper.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-21, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.046 CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION.
   All streets shall be constructed with curbs and guttering of Portland cement
concrete. Exception: The construction of curbs and guttering along streets
classified as Local (Residential - R-1E) and as permitted in the Single-Family
Residential R-1E zoning district shall not be required.
   (A)   Those streets classified as arterial, industrial, or collector
commercial, shall be constructed with a vertical combination curb and gutter in
accordance with the standard specification plan sheets, the dimensions depicted
thereon and the IDOT Standard Specifications.
   (B)   Those streets classified as alley, local residential or collector
residential shall be constructed with a mountable curb and a V-type gutter in
accordance with the standard specification plan sheets, the dimensions depicted
thereon, and the IDOT Standard Specifications.
   (C)   (1)   Curb and/or gutter may be constructed either integrally or
separately in conjunction with Portland cement concrete pavement.
      (2)   If constructed separately, the gutter flag shall be “tied” to
Portland cement concrete pavement with no. 6 reinforcing bars at least 24
inches long and spaced at 24-inch centers.
   (D)   (1)   Contraction joints and expansion joints shall be installed in
the curb, or curb and gutter, in prolongation with joints in adjacent Portland
cement concrete pavement or base course, except that dowel bars shall not be
required in contraction joints.
      (2)   Contraction joints, when sawed or template formed, shall be sealed
according to §
153.044.
   (E)   (1)   When curb and gutter is constructed adjacent to flexible
pavement, a one-inch expansion joint shall be installed at points of curvature
for short-radius curves and at construction joints.
      (2)   Contraction joints shall be placed between expansion joints at
distances not to exceed 25 feet.
   (F)   (1)   All expansion joints shall be constructed with a minimum one-
inch thick performed expansion joint filler conforming to the cross section of
the curb and gutter, and shall be provided with a one and one-fourth-inch
diameter by 18-inch long, coated smooth dowel bar conforming to standard
specifications.
      (2)   The dowel bar shall be fitted with a cap having an inched stop that
will provide a minimum one inch of expansion.
      (3)   All expansion joints shall be sealed according to §
153.044.
   (G)   Construction joints constructed in curb and gutter adjacent to
Portland cement concrete pavement and Portland cement concrete base course,
shall be provided with no. 6 deformed steel tie bars at least 30 inches long,
and placed on nine-inch or more centers with a minimum of two bars per joint.
(Ord. 2009-21, §18.5-3-22, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 153.047 GRASS LINED DITCH CONSTRUCTION.
   Along streets classified as Local (Residential - R-1E) and as permitted in
the Single-Family Residential R-1E zoning district, a drainage swale, ditch or
channel with a vegetative lining may be used for conveyance of stormwater
runoff when approved in advance by the City Engineer. Such ditches shall be
designed as a stable trapezoidal or parabolic channel with a suitably
protective vegetation lining to slow down concentrated runoff and prevent
erosion.
(Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.060 RELATIONSHIP OF NEW TO EXISTING STREETS.
   (A)   New streets shall be so arranged to provide for the continuation of
collector streets between adjacent properties when the continuation is
necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire and police
protection, efficient provision of utilities, and where the continuation is in
accord with the city's future land use plan.
   (B)   Whenever any subdivision abuts an existing street that is narrower
than the standards indicated in this section, the developer shall dedicate
right-of-way on the side abutting the subdivision to permit compliance with the
right of way width for the designated street classification.
   (C)   Whenever any subdivision is proposed in such a manner that it will
front on either one or both sides of an existing street, the developer shall,
at his or her own expense, be required to make improvements to the existing
street so that it complies with the standards imposed herein, as determined by
the city.
      (1)   If such a development is proposed to front only one side of an
existing street, the cost to improve the street to the standards set herein
shall be borne equally by the developer and the city.
      (2)   If such a development is proposed so that it fronts both sides of
an existing street, the cost to improve the street to the standards set herein
shall be borne entirely by the developer.
   (D)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial
or collector street with usage over 1,000 vehicles/day, the City Council may
require that access to the street be limited by one of the following means:
      (1)   That lots be subdivided so that they back onto the arterial street
and front onto a parallel local street, thereby creating double frontage lots,
and that the developer install screening in a reserve strip along the rear lot
lines of the lots;
      (2)   That the developer create a series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets
or short loops entered from and generally at right angles to the arterial
street at 500 feet per min intervals, with the rear lot lines of the lots at
the termini of the streets backing onto the minor arterial; or
      (3)   That the developer create a frontage road, separated from the
arterial street by a planting strip, but having access thereto at suitable
points.
   (E)   Any subdivision that exceeds a total of 50 lots shall be designed with
two entrances accessing an adjoining street to provide alternate access to the
subdivision in the event one of the entrances is blocked due to accidents,
construction, or unforeseen circumstances. Any subdivision entrance servicing
25 homes or more shall be designed as a collector street.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-23, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.061 DESIGNING BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block width. Wherever practicable, blocks shall be sufficiently wide
to accommodate two tiers of lots having the minimum depth required by the
applicable zoning district regulations. This requirement may be waived in
blocks adjacent to local collector streets, railroads, or watercourses.
   (B)   Block length. No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet, nor shorter
than 500 feet; provided, however, that wherever practicable, blocks along
collector streets shall not be less than 1,000 feet in length.
   (C)   Driveways. Driveways shall be located on the lowest classification of
street abutting the property. Driveways accessing onto arterial or collector
streets are discouraged and to the greatest extent possible should be located
on local residential streets, i.e., cul-de-sacs, loops and the like that
intersect arterials. Driveway access directly onto collector streets is
permitted only subject to the condition that adequate driveway turnaround space
is allowed for front end entry onto the collector street. Exceptions to this
design standard may be granted at the sole discretion of the city.
   (D)   Pedestrian access routes (PAR). A pedestrian right of way, shall be
required through blocks where necessary to provide pedestrian circulation or
access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation, or other
community facilities. A PAR will consist of a ten foot-wide easement with a
five foot-wide sidewalk and will be required when:
      (1)   A block is over 1,000 feet long.
      (2)   A cul-de-sac over 600 feet in length and paralleling an adjacent
street should have a PAR between the two rights-of-way.
      (3)   A “barrier” is present between adjacent blocks. A barrier is a non-
transversable feature such as a creek, utility easement, or railroad.
      (4)   The PAR requirement may be waived by the City Engineer if the
natural terrain is too steep for the PAR to be made Americans with Disability
Act (ADA) compliant or another obstruction exists that would create a hardship
on the owner/developer.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-24, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.062 DESIGNING INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No more than two streets shall intersect at any one point.
   (B)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at
right angles.
      (1)   In no case shall two streets intersect at an angle of less than 75
degrees.
      (2)   An oblique street shall be curved as it approaches an intersection
so that it is approximately at right angles with the intersection for a
distance of at least 100 feet therefrom, unless the subdivider's engineer
recommends, and the City Engineer concurs, that a lesser distance would be in
accordance with safe and accepted traffic engineering practices.
   (C)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street shall,
wherever practicable, align with any existing intersection on the opposite side
of the street.
      (1)   Offset intersections of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted,
except where the intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at
either intersection.
      (2)   Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 500 feet apart.
   (D)   Returns at intersections shall be made concentric and shall be rounded
by a radius of not less than 20 feet at the right-of-way line, and not less
than 30 feet at the back of curb line.
   (E)   All street intersections shall be built in such a way that whenever
practical, the cross-slopes thereon do not exceed 3%.
   (F)   The approach to an intersection shall be designed and built so that
for a distance of at least 75 feet from the centerline of the intersection the
grade does not exceed 3%.
   (G)   Earth banks or existing vegetation over 3.5 feet tall within the
intersection site triangular depicted herein on the standard specification plan
sheets shall be removed within the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-25, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.063 DESIGNING CURVES.
   (A)   Where curvilinear horizontal alignment is utilized for subdivision
streets, the minimum centerline radius shall be as indicated below, unless
otherwise dictated by site constraints and reviewed by the City Engineer:
      (1)   Arterial and commercial collector street - according to the IDOT
“Bureau or Local Roads and Streets Manual,” Chapter 29.
      (2)   Residential collector street -150 feet; and
      (3)   Local street - 75 feet.
   (B)   If horizontal reverse curves are to be utilized on any collector
street or arterial street, the radii of which are less than 300 feet, a tangent
at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced between the curves, as depicted
on the standard specification plan sheets.
   (C)   The minimum vertical curve length shall be as indicated below, unless
otherwise dictated by site constraints and reviewed by the City Engineer:
      (1)   Arterial and commercial collector street - according to the IDOT
“Bureau or Local Roads and Streets Manual,” Chapter 30.
      (2)   Residential collector street -120 feet; and
      (3)   Local street - 90 feet.
(Ord. 2009-26, § 18.5-3-21, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.064 DESIGNING DEAD-END STREETS.
   (A)   Temporary stub streets.
      (1)   If property adjacent to a subdivision is undeveloped and the
comprehensive plan, the Planning Commission or the City Engineer proposes the
future extension of streets from the subdivision presented for development into
the undeveloped property, the streets may be allowed to dead-end temporarily.
In this case, the right-of-way shall be extended to the property line, a
temporary turnabout shall be provided at the terminus, and no strip that would
prevent connections with future streets shall be reserved.
      (2)   A temporary concrete or asphalt surface turnabout with a minimum
radius of 30 feet shall be provided at the terminus of any temporary dead-end
street whenever the distance along the dead-end street measured from the
terminus to the nearest intersection is greater than one contiguous lot.
   (B)   Permanent dead-end streets. For greater convenience to traffic and
more effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be
limited to 1,000 feet in length.
      (1)   The terminus of a permanent dead-end street shall not be closer
than 100 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract.
      (2)   A cul-de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 50
feet and a minimum pavement radius of 45 feet, shall be provided at the end of
every permanent dead-end street, as depicted on the standard specification plan
sheets.
      (3)   A pedestrian access route should be provided when applicable per
section §
153.061.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-27, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.065 DESIGNING SIDEWALKS.
   The subdivider/developer shall be required to construct sidewalks at no cost
to the city along both sides of every new or improved street. No variation from
this requirement shall be granted unless the City Council, having considered an
advisory report from the Planning Commission, determines that, in the area in
question, topographical conditions make the installation of sidewalks
impractical. Exception: The construction of sidewalks along streets classified
as Local (Residential - R-1E) and as permitted in the Single-Family Residential
R-1E zoning district shall not be required.
   (A)   Every sidewalk shall be constructed of concrete in accordance with the
specifications outlined in §
153.045, as well as the following:
      (1)   Every sidewalk shall be constructed to generally parallel the
street.
      (2)   Be placed to a thickness of at least four inches; provided,
however, that any sidewalk located across a point of ingress or egress for
vehicles shall be placed to a thickness of at least six inches.
      (3)   Control joints shall be troweled in at intervals of five feet or
less.
      (4)   Expansion joints of three-fourths-inch pre-molded joint filler
shall be placed at driveway crossings, at both ends of the sidewalk, at the
back of the curb when the sidewalk abuts, and in the event of excessively long
runs, as determined by the City Engineer. Expansion joints shall be sealed with
a gray pour grade non-sag sealer (Sonolastic NP-1 or equal).
      (5)   No sidewalk (excluding accessible ramps) shall be constructed at a
grade steeper than 5% unless the roadway running slope exceeds 5%, or as
approved by the City Engineer.
      (6)   The cross-slope shall not exceed 1 to 50, 2%.
      (7)   Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks ramped at all intersections and
driveways so as to enhance the mobility of disabled individuals and comply with
accessibility rules and regulations.
      (8)   All sidewalks and ramps shall be constructed in conformance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12010 et seq. and the
latest edition of the Public Right-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines (PROWAG).
      (9)   All ramps at intersections and other hazardous vehicular ways shall
have detectable warning features in accordance with IDOT Highway Standards.
Detectable warnings shall consist of a surface of truncated domes aligned in a
square or triangular pattern. The domes shall be configured in accordance with
IDOT Standards. Detectable warning surfaces shall extend 24 inches in the
direction of travel and the full width of the walking surface of the curb ramp,
landing or blended transition. Detectable warning surfaces shall contrast
visually with adjacent walking surfaces either light on dark, or dark on light-
typically being red.
      (10)   When a sidewalk intersects with the top of a storm sewer inlet
cover, the inlet cover dimension perpendicular to the street shall be increased
so that the edge of the cover which is parallel to and furthest away from the
street is aligned with the edge of the sidewalk furthest away from the street,
thereby incorporating the inlet cover into the sidewalk, as depicted on the
standard specification plan sheets. This provision shall not be required if the
parkway between the sidewalk and curb is wide enough to allow an inlet cover
independent of the sidewalk.
   (B)   In residential areas, sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet in
width and:
      (1)   The sidewalks shall be located 36 inches behind the curb along
streets.
      (2)   Because driveways in a new residential subdivision cannot be
effectively located until lots are sold and developed, thereby inhibiting the
initial installation of sidewalks throughout the development, the subdivider/
developer may require that individual owners install sidewalks in accordance
with these provisions at the same time that the owner's driveway is
constructed. Failure to do so by the owner shall not release the subdivider/
developer from the ultimate responsibility for installation of the sidewalks.
No final building inspection will be considered complete until sidewalks and/or
driveways are constructed and approved.
      (3)   Accessible ramps meeting the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
design standards shall be installed at street intersections at the time the
streets are in built, and not on a lot by lot basis. The adjoining sidewalks
may be installed at the time the driveway is installed as defined in the above
division.
      (4)   When 90% of the lots are developed within a block or a phase,
whichever comes first, the remaining sidewalks on undeveloped lots shall be
installed by the subdivider/developer within 120 days of the last occupancy
permit being issued.
   (C)   In commercial and other nonresidential areas, sidewalks shall be a
minimum of five feet in width and because of safety considerations in these
areas:
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be located as far as practical from the traffic
lanes, usually abutting the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Accessible ramps meeting the Americans with Disabilities Act design
standards shall be installed at street intersections at the time streets are in
built, and not on a lot by lot basis.
      (3)   The developer/subdivider shall install all adjacent sidewalks
throughout the development as well.
(Ord. 2009-21, §18.5-3-28, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 153.066 SPECIFICATIONS FOR STREET SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be purchased by the subdivider/developer for all
intersections within or abutting any subdivision.
   (A)   The signs shall be of flat .080 aluminum with engineering grade
sheeting and measure six inches in height and no less than 24 inches in length.
   (B)   At a minimum, all street name signs shall be mounted on galvanized
steel “U” channel posts 12 feet in length and weighing at least three pounds
per foot; provided, however, that the city may allow other options upon written
request from the subdivider/developer.
   (C)   Mounting brackets and bolts shall be made of aluminum, shall be
designed so as to inhibit theft of the signs, and shall comply with the IDOT
Standard Specifications.
   (D)   All street name signs within a subdivision shall be provided to the
city for installation by the city no later than the date on which the first
home within the subdivision is occupied.
   (E)   A street that is a continuation of an existing street, or obviously in
alignment with an existing street, shall bear the same name as the existing
street.
   (F)   The names of new streets shall be significantly different in sound and
spelling from the names of existing streets in the city so as to avoid
confusion, and shall be approved by the County 9-1-1 Coordinator prior to the
ordering of the signs.
   (G)   Street signs shall be green with white letters using upper and lower
case “B Series Font” and be according to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MUTCD).
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-29, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.067 DEDICATION FOR PUBLIC USE.
   Every subdivider/developer shall dedicate for public use, at least the
minimum right-of-way indicated in the street design specifications contained
herein.
   (A)   The City Engineer may require a subdivider/developer to dedicate
right-of-way in excess of the stated minimum if, in his or her professional
opinion, he or she feels that:
      (1)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate site lines;
      (2)   Due to the location of streams and railroad tracks, additional
width is needed to construct bridges, underpasses and/or safe approaches
thereto;
      (3)   Due to potential pedestrian activity, additional sidewalk with is
needed; or
      (4)   Additional width is needed for a vital utility infrastructure
corridor.
   (B)   Whenever a subdivision abuts an existing street that does not meet the
street design specifications contained herein, the subdivider/developer shall
reserve sufficient right-of-way along the street abutting the subdivision so
that, when additional right-of-way is acquired on the other site, compliance
with the standards will be possible.
   (C)   Any land that is dedicated or reserved for public rights-of-way shall
not be counted in determining compliance with the lot size and setback
requirements set forth in
Chapter 154.
   (D)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
create any private street within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-30, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016) Penalty, see §
153.999
UTILITIES
§ 153.080 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   All utility lines, including gas, electric power, lights, telephone and CATV
lines, shall be located underground in proper easements throughout every
subdivision. Underground service connections to the property line of each unit
shall be installed at the developer's expense.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-35, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.081 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR WATER SERVICES.
   It is the responsibility of the subdivider/developer to install or have
installed all water mains necessary to serve the proposed development. In
addition, the subdivider/developer shall connect the water mains within the
subdivision to the public water system, under the direction and supervision of
the city, but at no cost to the city.
   (A)   Construction plans. The subdivider/developer's engineer shall first
prepare detailed construction plans, determine a complete bill of materials and
complete all forms and submissions required for a permit from the IEPA.
      (1)   The plans shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and Director of
Public Works prior to submittal to the IEPA It is the subdivider/developer's
responsibility to secure IEPA approval.
      (2)   Design and construction shall be in accordance with the applicable
portions of the current edition of the standard specifications for water and
sewer main construction in Illinois.
      (3)   Plans for and actual installation of, all water mains shall assure
at least a five-foot separation from all other utilities. The standard
specifications for water and sewer main construction in Illinois specify the
separation between water and sewer utilities.
   (B)   Main requirements. Every water main extension installed by a
subdivider/developer, either inside or outside the limits of his or her
subdivision, shall be a minimum of six inches in diameter.
      (1)   If the water main will supply industrial or commercial
developments, it shall be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter.
      (2)   If a water main extension will ultimately serve future
developments, the city may require the main to be larger than the minimum size.
In other instances, the Director of Public Works may require water mains to
exceed the minimum sizes. In these cases, the city will pay the difference in
material cost from the minimum required size to the requested size. If the same
developer constructs the adjoining property, the city's contribution shall be
reimbursed.
      (3)   If the water main will supply industrial or commercial
developments, it shall be a minimum of 12 inches in diameter.
      (4)   All water mains shall be constructed of either ductile iron meeting
the requirements of AWWA C-151, or Class 200 PVC water main meeting the
requirements of ASTM D-2241 and having slip-on joints with rubber gaskets
meeting the requirements of ASTM D-3139.
      (5)   Gate valves shall be underwriters lab approved resilient seat gate
valves AWWA C-509 and shall be installed in valve boxes as approved by the
city.
      (6)   All bends and fittings shall be restrained mechanical joints
conforming to AWWA C111 and C600.
      (7)   The subdivider/developer shall install THWN soft drawn solid No. 12
copper tracer wire with all water mains, and connected to all valves and
hydrants, in order to facilitate future underground location. For proper
hookup, the wire shall be made available at intervals no greater than 500 feet.
      (8)   Where the trench for any water main or service line crosses under
the location of a street, drainage structure, right-of-way or other paved
areas, it shall be backfilled with crushed stone being CA-6 according to the
“Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction.”
      (9)   Water mains shall be extended around the full circumference of all
cul-de-sacs to the last lot.
   (C)   Fire hydrants. The subdivider/developer shall submit a plan to the
city for review of fire hydrant locations within the development.
      (1)   The spacing between fire hydrants shall not exceed 500 feet in
single-family residential areas or 300 feet in all other zoning districts.
      (2)   Upon approval of the plan, the subdivider/developer shall install
hydrants at the designated locations.
      (3)   Without substitution, hydrants shall be three-way Mueller Centurion
Model A-423 or Clow Medallion Model F-2545 with a 5.25-inch barrel, a four-foot
bury, 2.5-inch discharges, a 4.5-inch steamer connection, and National Standard
threads.
      (4)   All hydrants shall stand plumb and shall be located per the
following or as directed by the Director of Public Works. Hydrants with pumper
nozzles shall have hose nozzles parallel with, and the pumper nozzle
perpendicular to, the curb line. Hydrants located behind curbs where sidewalks
extend close to or about the curb shall be set so that no portion of the pumper
or hose nozzle caps will be less than 12 inches from the back edge of the
sidewalk and four feet from the back of curb. Where set between the curb and
sidewalk, or between the sidewalk and property line, no portion of the hydrant
or nozzle cap shall be within 12 inches of the sidewalk or four feet from the
back of curb where no sidewalk exists. Where no curb exists, the hydrant shall
be no closer than eight feet from the edge of pavement and six feet from the
flow line of the drainage ditch.
   (D)   Water service lines. Water service lines shall be a minimum one-inch
inside diameter Type K copper or one-inch CTS SDR 9 250 PSI polyethylene
tubing.
   (E)   Testing. The subdivider/developer shall be required to provide air
testing, sampling, and backfill testing as required by the IEPA, in order for
the city to obtain an operating permit.
      (1)   As a minimum, a testing agency or firm shall not be considered as
qualified unless it is independent of the contractor installing the water
system, demonstrate competency in the performance of air and mandrel tests,
follow standard safety practices for performing testing in confined spaces, and
are insured, including for errors and omissions. As such, the city has the
right to approve or not approve any agency or firm.
      (2)   The Public Works Department shall be present during the performance
of all testing work and shall be notified of the time and place of testing at
least 48-hours prior to commencement of the test.
   (F)   IEPA approval. No water service taps shall be made until such time as
the city has received an operating permit from the IEPA.
   (G)   Maintenance. The subdivider/developer shall be responsible for all
maintenance of water mains, valves, hydrants, and service connections until
such time as the paving of the streets and the grading adjacent to the sewer is
complete, and the improvements are officially accepted by the City Engineer
and/or the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-36, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.082 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS.
   It is the sole responsibility of the subdivider/developer to provide a
sanitary sewage disposal system for every subdivision or development which
complies with the regulations of the State Department of Public Health
(“Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code,” being ILCS Ch. 225, Act 225,
§§ 1 et seq.), the IEPA and/or the Madison County On-Site Sewage Disposal
Ordinance. In addition, the subdivider/developer shall connect the sanitary
sewer mains within the subdivision or development to the public sewer system
under the direction and supervision of the city but at no cost to the city.
   (A)   Requirements for extension of existing mains.
      (1)   If the public sanitary sewer system is within 300 feet of the
proposed subdivision or development, and the system has the available capacity,
the subdivider/developer shall extend the existing system and sewer to his or
her entire proposed development at his or her own expense.
      (2)   Should the public sanitary sewer system be more than 300 feet away
from the proposed subdivision or development, the city may negotiate with the
subdivider/developer to share the cost of extending the existing system and
sewer.
   (B)   Construction plans. The subdivider/developer shall employ a
professional engineer registered in the state to first prepare detailed
construction plans, including the extension of any existing public sewer main,
determine a complete bill of materials and complete all forms and submissions
required for a permit from the IEPA.
      (1)   The plans shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and/or Director of
Public Works prior to submittal to the IEPA. It is the subdivider/developer's
responsibility to secure IEPA approval.
      (2)   Design and construction shall be in accordance with the applicable
portions of the current edition of the standard specifications for water and
sewer main construction in Illinois.
      (3)   As part of the plans, the subdivider/developer shall locate every
sanitary sewer main within the area between the pavement edge and the right-of-
way line of the street or within an easement parallel to the right-of-way.
      (4)   The city shall retain the right to disapprove the proposed location
of any sewer main.
   (C)   Sewer mains. Pipes used for sewer mains shall either be polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D 3034, type PSM for sizes eight
to 15 inches and ASTM F-679-89 for sizes 18 to 36 inches, or ductile iron pipe
conforming to ANSI A 21.51 (AWWA C-151), class thickness 52 designed per ANSI A
21.50 (AWWA C-150).
      (1)   For PVC pipe, the standard dimension ratio (SDR) shall be a minimum
of 35 for sewer mains and laterals less than 12 feet in depth. For sewer mains
and laterals greater than 12 feet in depth the SDR shall be a minimum of 26.
Also, all drop manholes shall be constructed with SDR-26 pipe.
      (2)   The PVC plastic pipe shall have a minimum cell classification of
12454-C and shall have a minimum pipe stiffness of 46 pounds per inch (317
kPa).
      (3)   Joints for PVC sewer pipe shall conform to ASTM D-3212.
      (4)   FA-6, CA-16 or CM-16 conforming to the requirements of IDOT and
manufactured from crushed limestone installed to a minimum depth of four inches
shall be used as bedding for all PVC sewer mains.
      (5)   Ductile iron pipe shall be tar (seal) coated and/or cement lined
per ANSI A 21.4 (AWWA C-104) with mechanical or rubber ring (slip seal or push-
on) joints.
      (6)   Mechanical joints and push-on joints for ductile iron pipe shall
conform to AWWA C111 and AWWA C600.
      (7)   (a)   The minimum allowable size for sewer mains shall be eight
inches in diameter.
         (b)   The city may require the main to be larger than the minimum size
to provide capacity to serve future, adjacent tributary lands. Also, for other
reasons, the Director of Public Works may require sewer mains to exceed the
minimum sizes. In these cases, the city will pay the difference in material
cost from the minimum required size to the requested size. If the same
developer constructs the adjoining property, the city's contribution shall be
reimbursed.
      (8)   Both PVC and ductile iron pipe shall be installed and backfilled
with CA-6 aggregate in conformance with the Standard Specifications for Water
and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois and the standard specification plan
sheets.
      (9)   Where a sewer main crosses under the location of a street, drainage
structure, right-of-way or other paved areas, the trench shall be backfilled
with CA-6 aggregate or other approved granular material and satisfactorily
compacted to the standard specification plan sheets.
   (D)   Service connections. The subdivider/developer shall provide a six-inch
service connection for each residential lot, accomplished byway of a “Y”
fitting matching the diameter of the sewer main and the service lateral, made
from the same material as the pipes, and installed in the sanitary sewer main
in order to provide for connection of the laterals to the sewer main.
      (1)   The “Y” fitting shall be installed in the sewer main in such a
manner so that the centerline of the service riser will be 45 degrees above a
horizontal plane through the center of the main.
      (2)   Material joining the “Y” fitting to the pipes shall be free from
cracks and shall adhere tightly to each joining surface.
      (3)   A log, locating all “Y” fittings by indicating accurate
measurements for the distance from the downstream manhole and the depth of the
connection at the main, shall be established by the contractor and maintained
during installation as a permanent record of the locations and shall be
provided to the city prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit.
   (E)   Service laterals. The subdivider/developer shall provide a six-inch
service connection at the “Y” for each residential lot, the lateral of which,
shall be extended at least ten feet into the lot, as measured from the lot
line, and at least three feet beyond any dedicated easement so as to avoid
conflict with other utilities, and then extended vertically to a minimum of
three feet above the finished grade level where it shall be terminated with a
glued cap capable of withstanding air testing pressures.
      (1)   All sewer lines shall be installed using a laser to align the sewer
to the correct vertical grade and horizontal alignment.
      (2)   Any transition in the lateral from the “Y” fitting to the vertical
shall be made by the use of a series of 45 degree elbows or through the use of
a six-inch 90-degree “long sweep.”
      (3)   The end of the sewer lateral as it extends above grade shall be
sealed with a six-inch cap securely glued into place so as to withstand air
test procedures.
      (4)   Pipes used for service laterals shall be six-inch polyvinyl
chloride (PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D 3034, type PSM for service
lines.
      (5)   For the PVC pipe, the standard dimension ratio (SDR) shall be a
minimum of 35.
      (6)   The PVC pipe shall have a minimum cell classification of 12454-
C and shall have a minimum pipe stiffness of 46 pounds per inch (317 kPa).
      (7)   Joints for PVC sewer pipe shall conform to ASTM D-3212.
      (8)   The minimum allowable grade is 1%.
      (9)   Service lines shall be installed and trenches backfilled with CA-
6 aggregate in conformance with the standard specifications for water and sewer
main construction in Illinois.
      (10)   CA-6 granular aggregate to a minimum depth of four inches shall be
used as bedding for all PVC sewer laterals.
      (11)   Where a sewer lateral crosses under the location of a street,
drainage structure, right-of-way or other paved areas, the trench shall be
backfilled with CA-6 aggregate or other approved granular material and
satisfactorily compacted.
      (12)   In order to facilitate future location of service laterals, the
subdivider/developer shall assure that an “X” is cut into the top back of curb
at the point under which the lateral passes.
   (F)   Manholes. The subdivider/developer shall provide sanitary sewer
manholes within the proposed subdivision or development as part of the sewer
system design and at locations necessitated by the design.
      (1)   The manholes shall be constructed of pre-cast Portland cement
concrete in conformance with ASTM C-478 and shall be constructed in such a way
so as to prevent the leakage of sewage from the manhole or the infiltration of
ground water into the manhole. All manholes shall be "Type A" in design and be
at least four feet in diameter equipped with A-lock rubber gaskets. Risers and
slabs shall be in accordance with ASTM C478. Lifting holes shall be provided in
the bases and risers. Lifting hooks shall be provided in flat slabs. Manhole
steps shall be constructed of copolymer polypropylene plastic.
      (2)   Minimum wall thickness for manholes shall be five inches.
      (3)   Cones and sections shall be substantially free from fractures,
large or deep cracks and surface roughness.
      (4)   Slabs shall be sound and free of gravel pockets.
      (5)   Manhole steps shall be furnished and installed and shall be either
gray cast iron conforming to ASTM A 48 or polypropylene coated steel
reinforcing rods with load and pullout ratings conforming to OSHA requirements.
      (6)   Pre-cast inverts shall be provided in the base sections to
accommodate pipe openings with side channel walls extending to roughly the
center of the sanitary sewer pipe. Grouting is required around pipes to provide
a consistent smooth invert. Special care shall be taken to see that the
openings through which pipes enter the structure shall be provided with “A-Lok”
flexible watertight connections conforming to ASTM C 923, “Standard
Specifications for Resilient Connectors Between Reinforced Concrete Manhole
Structures and Pipes.”
      (7)   Special care shall be taken to see that the openings through which
pipes enter the structure shall be provided with flexible watertight
connections conforming with ASTM C 923, standard specifications for resilient
connectors between reinforced concrete manhole structures and pipes.
      (8)   The maximum distance between manholes shall be 400-feet.
   (G)   Manhole frames and lids. Castings shall conform to ASTM A 48 and shall
be Neenah R-1772, East Jordan 1022 or equivalent cast iron frame and lids with
concealed pick holes and self-sealing gaskets in the lid.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer manhole frame and grates shall be capable of
handling H-20 loadings.
      (2)   In areas that are subject to surface water ponding, frames with
stainless steel bolt-down gasketed lids and concealed pick holes which are
Neenah R-1915 or equivalent may be required to prevent ground water
infiltration.
      (3)   The word SANITARY shall be cast in the lids of all sanitary sewer
manholes.
      (4)   Lids and frames shall be properly sealed at the time they are
adjusted to finished grade. Mastic sealant shall be applied between the
concrete and flange of the frame before the lid bolts are tightened.
      (5)   Adjusting rings may be necessary to place the frame and lid at the
correct elevation. Rings may be applied to a height of eight inches. If the
adjustment requires more than eight inches, a barrel section must be installed
under the cone section.
   (H)   Sanitary sewer lift stations. The design of lift stations shall
conform to “Title 35: Environmental Protection; Subtitle C: Water Pollution;
Chapter II: Environmental Protection Agency; Part 370: Illinois Recommended
Standards for Sewage Works; Subpart D: Sewage Pumping Stations” of the State of
Illinois rules and regulations, and the standard specifications for water and
sewer main construction in Illinois, latest edition.
      (1)   The owner/developer shall install all necessary lift station(s) and
appurtenances at no cost to the city. Lift stations shall be considered part of
the improvements. The lift station shall be placed within a permanent easement.
      (2)   All lift station materials, equipment types, and requirements shall
be furnished and installed in accordance with details and specifications of the
city's Public Works Department. The lift station equipment shall Include
emergency pumping capabilities to pump the design peak flow without electric
commercial power.
      (3)   Every lift station shall be located off the traffic way of streets
and alleys and shall be enclosed by a fence which has been approved in advance
by the city; provided, however, that within subdivisions with restrictions of
record, the fence shall conform to the restrictions except that the height of
the fence may be varied if required to adequately conceal the lift station
components. Areas inside the fence shall be rocked with six inches of CA-
6 aggregate.
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall provide a permanent road surface of
either asphalt or concrete for access to any lift station so that lift stations
are readily accessible by maintenance vehicles during all weather conditions.
      (5)   A two and a half inch flushing hydrant shall be located within 25
feet of the lift station for cleaning purposes.
      (6)   Sewage lift station structures and mechanical equipment shall be
protected from physical damage and designed to remain operational during a 100-
year flood event.
      (7)   Sewage lift station pumps and appurtenances shall be Flygt pumps
without exception.
      (8)   Electrical systems and components shall comply with the National
Electrical Code requirements for Class 1, Group D, Division 1 locations.
      (9)   Electrical panel and controls shall be manufactured by either
Climex or Stacon.
      (10)   The subdivider/developer shall also equip the lift station with an
emergency generator. The diesel generator shall be Cummins, Caterpillar, or
Onan.
      (11)   The lift station shall be equipped with a high-water alarm light
and a multi-trode communication/emergency telemetering system of the city's
choice. For redundancy in design, the lift station shall also have a high-level
emergency float.
      (12)   Under no circumstances shall the wet well inlet be less than four
feet above the pumps.
      (13)   Wet wells shall be a minimum five feet in diameter. Valve vaults
shall be a minimum five feet by five feet square. Safety hatches shall be
installed on all aluminum access hatches approved by the Director of Public
Works.
      (14)   The emergency high-water mark should be below the lowest basement
elevation for all the homes served by the lift station. If allowed by the city
by variance, a check valve to prevent backflow should be installed at the
right-of-way line on all sewer services with basements lower than the emergency
high-water mark.
      (15)   Sanitary sewer force main shall be pressure tested and installed
with THWN No. 12 tracer wire.
      (16)   Existing system improvements. Improvements to downstream sewerage
facilities including sewers and pump stations may be required to provide
sufficient capacity to serve the increase in tributary flow of a proposed
sanitary sewer extension as determined by the Director of Public Works. If the
improvements are required solely for the development, the city will require the
owner/developer to pay all the cost of the downstream sewer system improvements
to provide for the increased capacity. If the improvements are also required
for future development, the city will pay the difference in cost from the
minimum required improvements to the requested improvements. If the same
developer constructs the future development(s), the city's contribution shall
be reimbursed.
      (17)   All lift station components, design criteria and IEPA permit
application shall be reviewed by the City Engineer and/or Director of Public
Works prior to approval for construction.
   (I)   Inspection and testing sanitary sewer system piping. All sections of
all sanitary systems, including sewer mains and laterals, shall be air and
mandrel tested by a qualified testing agency or firm hired by the subdivider/
developer who bears all cost for the testing.
      (1)   Testing of sewer mains and laterals shall be performed within 60
days after completion of installation.
         (a)   As a minimum, a testing agency or firm shall not be considered
as qualified unless it is independent of the contractor installing the sanitary
sewer system, demonstrate competency in the performance of air and mandrel
tests, follow standard safety practices for performing testing in confined
spaces, and is insured, including for errors and omissions. As such, the city
has the right to approve or not approve any agency or firm.
         (b)   The Director of Public Works shall be present during the
performance of all testing work and shall be notified of the time and place of
testing at least 48-hours prior to commencement of the test.
      (2)   When air testing, all sanitary sewer mains and laterals which are
eight inches or less in diameter shall be pressurized to at least four psi
above the surrounding ground water pressure. A section of pipe shall be
considered to have “passed” air testing if the pressure does not drop below
three psi for a minimum duration of five minutes.
      (3)   Sewer mains over eight inches in diameter shall be tested as
required by the City Engineer.
      (4)   The testing agency or firm shall notify both the subdivider/
developer and the city in writing of the results of all tests as soon as
possible after the tests are performed.
      (5)   Should any test fail, the subdivider/developer shall make repairs
and arrange for the test to be performed again and shall continue to make
repairs and perform testing until each section of pipe has passed the tests.
   (J)   Inspection and testing of sanitary sewer manholes. All sanitary sewer
manholes shall be vacuum tested in accordance with ASTM C1244 - 05ae1 Standard
Test Method for Concrete Sewer Manholes by the negative air pressure (vacuum)
test prior to backfill.
   (K)   Maintenance. The subdivider/developer shall be responsible for all
maintenance of sewer mains, manholes, lift stations, service connections and
service laterals until such time as the paving of the streets and the grading
adjacent to the sewer is complete and the improvements are officially accepted
by the City Engineer and/or Director of Public Works.
   (L)   Warranty. The subdivider/developer shall notify the city in writing
when initiating the operation of any new sanitary sewer system and shall
thereafter be responsible for any and all defects in the system including sewer
mains, manholes, lift stations, service connections and backfill settlement for
a period of two years.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-37, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.083 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR OTHER UTILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider/developer to forward plans
for the subdivision/development to the respective providers of electric,
natural gas, telephone and cable television services.
   (A)   Gas, electric power, telephone and cable television, and other
utilities except surface stormwater facilities shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Except, however, that the following shall be
excluded from this requirement:
      (1)   Poles used exclusively for street lighting.
      (2)   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures used for
furnishing communication services.
      (3)   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
      (4)   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures
used for a period not to exceed six months which are necessary to provide
utility service until the permanent service is completed.
      (5)   Poles, wires and controller cabinets necessary for the operation of
traffic signals.
      (6)   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for
the transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,500
volts.
      (7)   Other utility facilities which may be exempted by the City Council
based on a recommendation from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   The utility companies shall develop and submit to the subdivider/
developer proposed layouts for their facilities so that the subdivider/
developer may approve the layouts and forward them to the city for review as
part of the city's approval process.
   (C)   Underground service connections for the utilities shall be provided at
the property line of each platted lot.
   (D)   All conduits or cables for the utilities shall be located within
easements or public rights-of-way in such a manner that they do not interfere
with other underground services or utilities.
   (E)   No underground utilities shall be constructed until their physical
location is reviewed in writing by the City Engineer and/or Code Enforcement
Officer.
   (F)   The subdivider/developer shall also secure recommendations from the
electric company for street lighting in any new subdivision and shall present
plans for the street lighting to the city for approval prior to installation.
      (1)   LED lighting shall be installed once it is an available option from
the electric company.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to reject lighting plans based on style
and photometries.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to request photometries for street
lighting to verify adequate lighting is being provided for public safety.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-39, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.084 SAFETY PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider/developer to provide all
necessary and appropriate safety features within any subdivision or
development, including but not limited to guard rails, retaining walls, curbing
and revised grading at hazardous or potentially hazardous locations. Hazardous
locations might include where water is impounded next to roadway, in areas of
high fills, along large culverts and near steep embankments.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-40, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.085 STANDARDS FOR EASEMENTS.
   In designing any subdivision, the subdivider/developer shall provide
easements for drainage and storm sewers and for all utilities including
sanitary sewers; gas mains; water mains; and underground electric, telephone
and cable television lines.
   (A)   Utility easements. Unless utilities are to be installed in the public
rights-of-way, utility easements not less than 20 feet wide for sanitary sewers
and not less than 15 feet wide for gas mains, water mains and underground
electric, telephone and cable television lines shall be provided along all rear
lot lines and along those side lot lines where necessary.
      (1)   As a common practice, in the case of abutting lots the easements
shall be designed so that they are apportioned evenly on either side of the lot
lines.
      (2)   Preliminary plats shall be submitted to the appropriate utility
companies for their input regarding the location of utility easements.
      (3)   Water mains and sewer mains should normally be installed in
easements on opposite sides of a street and located as near to the center of
the easements as possible.
      (4)   Easements of greater width may be required along or across lots
when necessary for the extension of sewer mains or other utilities or where
both water and sewer lines must be located in the same easement.
      (5)   The final location and minimum widths of all easements shall at the
discretion of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Drainage easements. Adequate easements for stormwater drainage shall
be established along any natural drainage channel and in any other locations as
may be necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of stormwater from streets,
alleys and all other portions of the subdivision.
      (1)   In no case, shall the easements be less than 15 feet in width.
      (2)   Easements to access and maintain drainage retention and detention
facilities shall also be provided as necessary.
      (3)   Plans depicting drainage easements shall indicate the direction of
water flow by the use of arrows.
      (4)   In addition to the easement area, the city shall be granted the use
of additional space adjacent to the easement as may be required for working
room during the construction, reconstruction, maintenance, or repair of the
aforementioned sewer or sewers, including stormwater improvements.
      (5)   The city may from time to time enter upon said premises to
construct, reconstruct, maintain, or repair the aforesaid sewer or sewers,
including stormwater improvements, and may assign its rights herein to the
state, county, or other political subdivisions of the state.
   (C)   Pedestrian access route easements. A ten-foot wide easement shall be
provided along lot lines according to §
153.061.
   (D)   Restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall erect any structure or fence or plant any tree or
shrub in any easement or within any street or alley right-of-way, except at the
owner's risk with respect to all costs for demolition, removal or
reconstruction thereof.
      (2)   Utilities, public and private, in order to have access for repair
or to have alternate access through the owner’s property shall have the right
to destroy any such improvements within an easement, with the responsibility to
restore the area only by grading and seeding. It shall be unlawful for any
person to deny access to the easements to authorized officials upon display of
proper identification.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-3-41, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 PROVISION OF GREEN SPACE.
   (A)   General provisions. All proposed subdivisions shall contain green
space. Except for sidewalk easements, the green space shall be owned,
supervised, managed, and maintained by the developer or subdivision homeowner’s
association. The green space shall consist of passive or active use green
space, whether developed for recreational uses or not. Exception: Green space
shall not be required in proposed subdivisions that are zoned as Single-Family
Residential R-1E.
      (1)   Green space shall not include water detention or other manmade
storm water management areas; however, natural ponds or lakes that are part of
the storm water management system shall be considered as green space, as well
as 50% percent of manmade water retention ponds if included in common ground
and not on private property.
      (2)   Utility transmission corridors, whether in permanent right-of-way
or easements shall not be counted as green space.
      (3)   Green space must be accessible to all lots via rights-of-way or
easements to preclude persons having to cross private property.
      (4)   Creative uses of green space are encouraged.
   (B)   Enforcement. The subdivision's covenants must be recorded and shall
include language to the effect that, if the homeowner's association fails to
maintain the green space, the city shall have the right, but not the
obligation, to maintain the green space and impose a lien on each of the
homeowners’ property for a pro rata share of the maintenance and administration
costs, or impose a fine on the homeowner's association in the amount of the
maintenance and administration costs. A stop work order on all future building
permits on each of the homeowners' property may be in place until the fine is
paid in full.
   (C)   Minimum green space requirements. The amount of green space required
in a subdivision shall be based on the following schedule:
      (1)   R-l and R-la Zoning Districts: 10% of total area of subdivision
shall be green space.
      (2)   R-2 Zoning Districts: 20% of total area of subdivision shall be
green space.
      (3)   R-3 Zoning Districts: 20% of total area of subdivision shall be
green space.
      (4)   All other Districts: 4% of total area of subdivision shall be green
space.
   (D)   Individual green space area size. Every green space area shall be a
minimum of 10,000 square feet in size and shall be configured to provide
adequate space for meaningful passive or active recreation areas and not merely
remnants of land area not adequate for inclusion in a lot. Not more than 20% of
the green space may be covered by impervious surfaces, including but not
limited to parking lots, tennis courts, buildings and other structures.
   (E)   Green space credits. Up to a 30% reduction in the green space
requirement may be achieved by using the following methods:
      (1)   Central location credit. If the entire green space requirement is
made in one central location and interconnected to pedestrian routes, a 10%
credit in total green space required area may be issued.
      (2)   Structural improvements to centrally located green space. If there
are structural improvements to the centrally located green space, up to a 10%
additional credit in total green space required area may be issued. An example
of potential credited improvements would be: pavilion, gazebo, basketball
court, tennis court, playground structures, community swimming pool, etc. The
percentage of credit will be determined by how much of the subdivision this
facility would support.
      (3)   Loop trail credit. If a subdivision includes a paved eight-foot
wide loop trail connecting the majority of lots and accessing public rights-of-
way, up to a 10% credit in total greens space required area may be issued.
      (4)   Natural preservation credit. If the subdivision green space is
preserved in a natural wooded state or wetland, up to a 5% credit in total
green space required may be issued.
      (5)   Stream buffer credit. If the subdivision provides a minimum of a 50
feet buffer from any natural stream to private property, up to a 10% credit in
total green space required may be issued. The buffer must begin at the stream's
top of bank. Length of stream internal to the development, size of stream, and
design of buffer are all variables in determining the credit. For example, a
turf grass buffer versus a reestablished natural prairie would carry different
credits. Depending on the stream, preserving versus disturbing and restoring
the buffer could also carry different credits.
      (6)   Tree planting credit. If the subdivision plants a minimum of two
canopy trees per lot, 2.5 inch caliper or greater, up to a 5% credit in total
green space required may be issued. Tree species must be native to the region.
   (F)   Cumulative impact of adjacent subdivisions. Subdividers shall not
avoid the green space requirements of this section by configuring proposed
subdivisions into smaller parcels or attempting phased developments to avoid
setting aside green space. When any parcel is proposed for subdivision, the
subdivider shall provide green space in accordance with this section.
   (G)   Protection of green space. Green space shall be protected from
development through deed restrictions or restrictive covenants which will
ensure its perpetual use as a green space as defined herein, and which further
provides that no changes in use may be made without express written consent of
the City Council.
   (H)   Other green space. The provisions of this section are minimum
standards. None of the divisions above shall be construed as prohibiting a
developer from providing other land for green space purposes in addition to the
requirements of this section.
   (I)   Green area buffers along bike paths.
      (1)   Every residential subdivision platted after the effective date
hereof and which abuts or straddles an existing or proposed bike path, as
indicated in the bike trail plan section of the transportation element of the
future land use map, shall provide an appropriate permanent green area buffer
along the existing or proposed bike path. All the green area buffers shall be
included on the respective subdivision plats and appropriately integrated into
the restrictive covenants for the subdivision.
      (2)   Every residential subdivision lot for which a building is proposed
or potentially allowed shall be separated from every existing and proposed bike
path right-of-way by a green area buffer with a minimum width of 25 feet from
the center of the bike path to the adjoining property lines. The design and
layout of the green area buffer shall provide for the maximum possible physical
segregation and screening between the adjacent subdivision lots and the
existing or proposed bike path right-of-way.
      (3)   The green area buffer will be set aside as common grounds of the
subdivision. The green area buffers may be applied to the green space
requirements of this section. The green area buffer shall be owned, supervised,
managed and maintained by the subdivision homeowner's association.
      (4)   The green area buffers shall not be developed or improved, except
as authorized by this division. To the extent feasible, these green area
buffers shall remain in their natural state, retaining the existing topography
with its trees and vegetation. However, the developer shall appropriately plant
these green area buffers with other vegetation and perennial grasses for proper
soil stabilization and additional trees for proper screening of adjacent
residential lots. Where the green area buffers are dedicated as subdivision
common ground green space, appropriate subdivision restrictive covenants shall
be established to ensure that no subsequent improvements are made and the
natural setting of the land is retained after the subdivision is platted.
      (5)   An exception to the improvement restrictions of green area buffers
in division (D)(4) above may be made for the proper provision of city water and
sewer facilities. Where necessary or desirable, as determined by the
Superintendent or his or her designee, water and sewer facilities may be placed
through green area buffers. All subdivision plats shall provide a city utility
easement for placement and maintenance of water and sewer improvements
throughout the green area buffers.
      (6)   In the establishment of green area buffers, the developer is
encouraged to utilize creative and unique design criteria when integrating the
green area buffer requirements into the overall layout of the respective
subdivision plats.
      (7)   If the dedication of green area buffers would cause great practical
difficulties or undue hardship, the developer may apply for relief by formally
requesting a variance to the requirements provided in §
153.193.
   (J)   Bike path accessways.
      (1)   Every residential subdivision platted after the effective date
hereof which abuts or straddles an existing or proposed bike path, as indicated
in the bike trail plan section of the transportation element of the future land
use plan, shall provide appropriate permanent bike path accessways to connect
its subdivision streets to existing or proposed bike paths. All such bike path
accessways shall be dedicated to the city and included on the respective
subdivision plats.
      (2)   Every platted residential subdivision which abuts or straddles an
existing or proposed bike path shall provide one or more bike path accessways
for the connection of the bike paths to the residential streets within the
subdivision. The layout and number of the bike path accessways shall be
designed to provide all residents of a given subdivision access to the bike
trail via the internal street network of the subdivision.
      (3)   Each bike path accessway shall consist of a minimum right-of-way
width of 30 feet, extending from the existing or proposed bike path to one or
more residential streets within the subdivision. The respective bike path
accessways shall be dedicated to the city.
      (4)   Each bike path accessway shall be laid out to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles with the connecting subdivision street and the main
bike path adjacent to the subdivision. The subdivision street connection with
the bike path accessway shall not be placed within 100 feet of an intersection
of two streets. Any bike path accessway intersecting at a street subdivision
cul-de-sac shall have a center line radial from the center of the cul-de-sac.
Adequate sight lines shall be provided at all bike path accessway
intersections.
      (5)   The grades of bike path accessways shall conform as closely as
possible to the natural topography, and in no case shall the pavement structure
exceed a maximum grade of 10% or exceed any state for Federal requirements.
Pavement grades shall be limited to a maximum of 3% within ten feet of any bike
path accessway intersection. Cross slopes of bike path accessway pavements
shall be designed with a 1.5% slope to provide proper drainage and biking
surfaces. The earth shoulders of a bike path accessway, extending from the edge
of the pavement, shall be sloped for proper drainage and soil stabilization,
but shall not exceed a 3 to 1 slope. The developer shall plant these earth
shoulders in perennial grasses to ensure proper control of soil erosion and
sedimentation runoff.
      (6)   Bike path accessways shall be improved by the developer with a ten-
foot wide bike path surface as specified for in Appendix A - Standard
Specifications Plant Sheet. These standards along with other applicable
requirements of this section shall also apply to bike path accessway
improvements. The developer shall also pay for all required bike path accessway
signage required by the bike path owner.
      (7)   In the establishment of bike path accessways, the developer is
encouraged to utilize creative and unique design criteria when integrating bike
path accessway requirements into the overall layout of the subdivision plats.
      (8)   If the dedication of bike path accessways would cause great
practical difficulties or undue hardship, the developer may apply for relief by
formally requesting a variation to the requirements provided in §
153.193.
   (K)   Other public uses.
      (1)   Plat to provide for public uses. Except when an applicant utilizes
planned development procedures in which land is set aside by the developer as
required by the provision of the zoning ordinance, whenever a tract to be
subdivided includes recreation uses, or other public use as indicated in any
portion of the comprehensive or official map, the space shall be suitably
incorporated by the applicant into its preliminary plat. After proper
determination of its necessity by the City Council and the appropriate official
of any other public agency involved in the acquisition and use of each site and
a determination has been made to acquire the site by the public agency, the
site shall be suitably incorporated by the applicant into the preliminary and
final plats.
      (2)   Referral to public body. The Planning Commission shall recommend
the preliminary plat to the City Council for its consideration and approval.
The City Council may propose alternate areas for the acquisition and shall
allow the public body or agency 30 days for reply. The agency's recommendation,
if affirmative, shall include a map showing the boundaries and area of the
parcel to be acquired and an estimate of the time required to complete the
acquisition.
      (3)   Notice to property owner. Upon receipt of an affirmative report,
the City Council shall notify the property owner and shall designate on the
preliminary and final plats that area proposed to be acquired by the public
body.
      (4)   Duration of land reservation. The acquisition of land reserved by a
public agency on the final plat shall be initiated within 12 months of
notification, in writing, from the owner that he or she intends to develop the
land. The letter of intent shall be accompanied by a preliminary plat of the
proposed development and a tentative schedule of construction. Failure on the
part of the public agency to initiate acquisition within the prescribed 12
months shall result in the removal of the “reserved” designation from the
property involved and the freeing of the property for development in accordance
with these regulations.
   (L)   Preservation of residential subdivision common grounds and green space
areas.
      (1)   Unless the City Council determines that exigent circumstances
justify otherwise, every existing or future residential subdivision common
ground or green space area shall continue to exist on a perpetual basis. This
is to ensure the preservation of present and future subdivision common ground
or green space or land devoted to subdivision recreational activities, park-
like areas, buffers or other open space in the respective subdivisions.
      (2)   Existing and future subdivision common grounds and green space
areas shall not be allowed to be split, subdivided or re-platted. No portion or
whole of any subdivision common ground shall be allowed to be combined with or
transferred into any other tract of land, platted area or lot. Each subdivision
common ground and green space area will continue to exist, on an ongoing basis,
as a separate legal entity as it was originally platted in the establishment of
the subdivision.
      (3)   No residential structures or commercial buildings shall be
permitted to be constructed on any subdivision common ground or green space
area. Applicable subdivision restrictive covenants for the common grounds and
green space areas will apply and govern the ongoing management and maintenance
of the subdivision common grounds and green space areas.
      (4)   It is envisioned that normally the subdivision common grounds will
be established and maintained under the ongoing ownership of an entity of the
respective subdivisions. If, however, the ownership of a subdivision common
ground area is transferred to another third party through a forced sale such as
delinquent taxes, other court-ordered action, or any other type of land
transfer, the restrictions of this section along with other applicable sections
of this title will continue to apply.
(Ord. 2009-21, §18.5-3-42, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016; Am. Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.120 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   The following schedule establishes fees for the various procedures
listed in this subchapter, which are intended to defray the administrative
costs connected with the procedures and as such do not constitute a tax or
other revenue raising device:
TABLE 153.120: FEES
Procedure Fee
TABLE 153.120: FEES
Procedure                             Fee
Filing of preliminary plat            $150 plus $15 per lot or actual review
                                      costs, whichever is greater
Filing of improvement plan            $40 per lot
Filing of final plat                  $250
                                      3% of the estimated cost of improvements
Inspection of improvements            or actual review costs, whichever is
                                      greater
Nonresidential subdivision/site       $500 minimum plus any additional costs
development plan review
Application for variation             $250
Application for amendment to the text $250
of the Troy Subdivision Code
* Fees shall be deemed waived for any application filed by a city official,
the Planning Commission or the Code Enforcement Officer when acting in an
official capacity and on behalf of the city.
      
   (B)   Until the fees have been paid, no request for any of the above shall
be deemed to have been filed and no procedure shall be initiated.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-2, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
§ 153.121 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The primary authority for administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter shall be vested in the following:
      (1)   Code enforcement officer;
      (2)   City Engineer;
      (3)   Planning Commission; and
      (4)   City Council.
   (B)   In addition to the above, other officials, appointees or employees of
the city may be required and authorized to perform functions authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-3, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.122 CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of code enforcement officer who
is hereby authorized and empowered to administer and enforce provisions of this
chapter as listed in §
153.124.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer, in administering and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, shall be responsible for but not limited to the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and forward preliminary and final plats to the Planning
Commission;
      (2)   To transmit improvement plans to the Director of Public Works and
City Engineer for his or her review;
      (3)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the City Engineer determines
that approved improvements are being constructed in violation of this chapter;
      (4)   To pursue actions authorized in §
153.169 when a subdivider/developer fails to complete required improvements;
      (5)   To evaluate and make decisions concerning proposed minor changes in
approved final plats;
      (6)   To review and forward applications for variations to the Planning
Commission;
      (7)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed and to make recommendations on such matters to the
Planning Commission as necessary;
      (8)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this
chapter, including but not limited to preliminary plats, “as-built” records of
completed improvements, final plats, variations and amendments; and
      (9)   To provide information to subdivider/developers and developers and
to the general public on matters related to this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-4, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.123 CITY ENGINEER.
   The City Engineer, as appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council, is hereby authorized and empowered to administer and enforce
all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be responsible for but not
necessarily limited to the duties specified in the various sections of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-5, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.124 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission, a nine-member Board appointed by the Mayor, shall
hereby be authorized and empowered to administer and enforce all applicable
provisions of this chapter as listed herein.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, five members of the Planning
Commission shall constitute a quorum and no meeting or public hearing shall be
conducted by the Commission without a quorum being present.
   (B)   The concurring vote of five members of the Planning Commission shall
be necessary to decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
required to pass.
   (C)   The Planning Commission in administering and enforcing the provisions
of this chapter shall be responsible for the following specific duties:
      (1)   To review preliminary plats and report its findings and
recommendations to the City Council;
      (2)   To hear and review applications for variations and report its
findings and recommendations to the City Council;
      (3)   To hear and review applications for amendments to the text of this
chapter and report its findings and recommendations to the City Council;
      (4)   To conduct in accordance with law meetings and public hearings at
the call of the Planning Commission Chairperson, Administration and Community
Services Chairperson, Mayor, City Council, City Clerk or at such other times as
the Planning Commission may determine;
      (5)   To compel by action of the Chairperson the attendance of witnesses
at meetings and hearings, to allow the testimony of witnesses or any other
person or his, her or their designated agent or attorney, and to administer
oaths to those who so testify;
      (6)   To keep records of its hearings and other official actions and
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question,
or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact; and
      (7)   To file immediately in the Office of the City Clerk a copy of every
rule, regulation, order, requirement, decision or determination of the Planning
Commission, the contents of which shall be public record.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-6, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.125 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any person alleges that a violation of the provisions of this
chapter has occurred, that person shall file a written complaint on forms
provided by the code enforcement officer. The code enforcement officer shall
record the complaints, promptly investigate and, if necessary, institute
appropriate corrective action.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-7, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.126 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the code enforcement officer finds, by complaint, inspection or
otherwise, any development in violation of this chapter, he or she shall so
notify the responsible party and shall order appropriate corrective action..
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-8, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.127 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   Every order to take corrective action shall be issued in writing and shall
at least include:
   (A)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
   (B)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
   (C)   A statement of the corrective action necessary to effect compliance;
   (D)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
   (E)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with
the code enforcement officer and/or the City Engineer if he or she so desires;
   (F)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
   (G)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order may result
in the imposition of fines.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-9, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.128 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner,
subdivider/developer or developer, if it is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by certified mail to his or her last known address; or
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-10, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.129 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done in violation of any provision of this
chapter, the code enforcement officer's corrective action order may state that
the violation must cease immediately, in which case, the corrective action
order is equivalent to a stop work order.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-11, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.130 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the code
enforcement officer determines that any violation of this chapter poses an
imminent peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or
hearing, any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-12, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
SUBDIVISION PROCESS: PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 153.140 SUBDIVISION PROCESS.
   It is the intent of this chapter to standardize and codify the process and
requirements to be followed by all subdivider/developers of land within the
city's jurisdiction.
   (A)   To that end, the list below outlines the typical chronological process
to be followed and plans and documents to be submitted in seeking approval for
the development of a subdivision. Failure to follow this prescribed process may
result in either untimely delays or denial to the subdivider/developer:
      (1)   Schedule pre-application conference with city:
         (a)   Provide a sketch plan; and
         (b)   Field inspect the proposed developed area with the city.
      (2)   Submit preliminary plat for review and approval according to §
153.142;
      (3)   Submit detailed improvement plans with substantiating computations
according to §
153.160;
      (4)   Construct improvements;
      (5)   Submit final plat for review and approval:
         (a)   Submit final plat checklist; and
         (b)   Submit letter of credit.
      (6)   Final inspection of improvements; and
      (7)   Submit “as-built” plans sealed by the subdivider/developer's
engineer for the following:
         (a)   Roads, storm sewers and catch basins;
         (b)   Sanitary sewers; and
         (c)   Water mains (if installed by subdivider/developer).
   (B)   Every person who proposes to subdivide any land within the city's
subdivision jurisdiction shall comply with the procedural process outlined
above and with the substantive provisions of the sections following
hereinafter.
   (C)   At the discretion of the subdivider/developer, the submission of a
final plat may precede the construction of all improvements, provided that the
eventual construction of the improvements is guaranteed in accordance with the
provisions of §§
153.165 through
153.168 herein.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-13, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.141 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   (A)   As the initial phase of the subdivision process, a subdivider/
developer shall contact the Code Administrator and inform the Administrator of
his or her intentions to create a subdivision within the jurisdiction of the
city.
      (1)   The Code Administrator shall contact the appropriate city officials
and schedule a meeting between those officials and the subdivider/developer.
      (2)   The meeting shall be set within 14 calendar days following contact
from the subdivider/developer.
      (3)   The purpose of the meeting shall be to initiate pre-planning
activities, obtain information, and provide guidance before the subdivider/
developer enters into binding commitments or incurs substantial expense in the
form of detailed plans, surveys and other services.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer shall bring to the meeting a sketch plan of
his or her proposed development superimposed upon a quarter section map or
aerial map with property lines for the appropriate tract of land.
   (C)   At the meeting the city shall review the sketch plan and make a
preliminary declaration of the classification for all roads proposed within the
subdivision.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-14, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.142 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the city shall file three copies of a preliminary plat of the subdivision with
the Building and Zoning Department, along with three copies of all supporting
documentation and one electronic copy of a preliminary plat of the subdivision
and all supporting documentation.
   (B)   (1)   The subdivider/developer shall also file one copy of the
preliminary plat and all supporting data with the appropriate Soil and Water
Conservation District.
      (2)   The District shall have not more than 30 days to submit any
comments to make to the Planning Commission (see ILCS Ch. 70, Act 405, § 22).
   (C)   The subdivider/developer shall also file two copies of the preliminary
plat with the respective utility companies providing natural gas, electric,
telecommunications and cable television in the area of the proposed
development, for use by those utilities in planning service within the proposed
subdivision.
      (1)   Each utility company shall acknowledge in writing to the city the
receipt of the preliminary plat within ten days of the receipt.
      (2)   At the time of acknowledgment, the utility shall also make any
recommendations for changes or modifications that it deems necessary, and shall
thereafter work with the developer to jointly resolve the differences.
   (D)   The subdivider/developer shall also file one copy of the preliminary
plat with the County 9-1-1 Coordinator who shall review the plat in relation to
street names and provide addresses for all lots.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever a subdivider/developer proposes to develop a large
tract of land in stages and only a portion of that tract is to be initially
submitted for preliminary or final plat approval, the developer shall first
submit a “site design” of the entire tract proposed for eventual development.
      (2)   The site design shall indicate the general location of proposed
streets and utilities, proposed densities, location of wooded areas (aerial
photos are acceptable) and the topography of the tract (LIDAR data from the
county is acceptable).
   (F)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8 and the provisions of the divisions below;
provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions as defined in §
153.008: or
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from the Illinois Plats Act
(ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1(b)).
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-15, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.143 REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING.
   (A)   Required submittals. Considering the information and decisions
provided by the city at the pre-application conference, the subdivider/
developer shall determine if he or she intends to proceed with the proposed
development and if so, shall submit a preliminary plat and all associated
documents to the Building and Zoning Department, including but not necessarily
limited to:
      (1)   A cover letter requesting review and approval of the preliminary
plat and including a legal description of the entire tract of land to be
subdivided;
      (2)   A preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   A completed "Preliminary Plat Checklist,” signed by both the
developer and his or her engineer who prepared the preliminary plat;
      (4)   Copy of all deed restrictions and covenants;
      (5)   Signed statements from the Madison County “9-1-1” Coordinator
approving the street addresses;
      (6)   A written report by a licensed professional engineer discussing the
infrastructure proposed and the manner in which site constraints are to be
dealt with including flood hazard areas, requirements for IDNR/OWR floodway
construction of dam safety permits, requirements for Section 404 permit,
requirement through IDOT, archaeological sign off by the required public
agencies, and traffic assessment study;
      (7)   Evidence that cultural resources sign off has been requested from
the State of Illinois Department of Historical Sites and endangered species
sign off has been requested from the Department of Natural Resources;
      (8)   Maintenance plan and operation report for proposed stormwater lake
or detention facility, including preliminary drainage computations.
      (9)   Opinion of probable costs of public improvements prepared by a
licensed professional engineer; and
      (10)   A check made payable to the city in the amount stipulated for
filing of a preliminary plat, as set forth in §
153.120.
   (B)   Preliminary plat. Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor registered in the state at any scale necessary for clarity, preferably
no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet, provided the resultant drawing does
not exceed 30 inches by 36 inches. The preliminary plat, together with
supporting data, shall provide at least the following information:
      (1)   Identification as a “preliminary plat” and name of the proposed
subdivision;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owner, subdivider/developer (if not
the owner), and registered land surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (3)   Identification of the section and quarter section or claim and
survey, township, range and county within which the proposed subdivision is
located;
      (4)   North arrow, graphic scale and date;
      (5)   Location and boundary of the proposed subdivision showing
dimensions, bearings, angles, and references to known land lines;
      (6)   All lot lines adjacent to and abutting the subdivision;
      (7)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
      (8)   Dimensions of the boundary and the gross and net acreage area of
the proposed subdivision; the acreage of street right of way; the acreage of
any areas reserved for the common use of the property owners within the
subdivision and/or for public use; and the gross acreage reserved for green
space, the net acreages for active green space and net acreage for passive
green space;
      (9)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided and
all property within 100 feet of the tract to be subdivided;
      (10)   Locations, dimensions and areas in square feet of all existing or
proposed lots within the subdivision, identified by lot number;
      (11)   Locations, dimensions and areas of any parcels to be reserved for
parks, playgrounds, bike paths or other public purposes;
      (12)   Locations of features such as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainage ways, wooded areas, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks and
schools, within or adjacent to the tract to be developed;
      (13)   Names of streets, locations, and right-of-way widths of all
existing and proposed streets and alleys including pavement lines, widths,
approximate gradients, roadway intersection angles, centerline radii, types of
pavement, curbs, sidewalks, crosswalks, planning strips, and other pertinent
data;
      (14)   Locations, widths and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements including cross access, utilities, water and sewer, drainage, access
to proposed greens paces;
      (15)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided, and a minimum of 100
outside the tract, as indicated by one-foot contours for land having slopes of
0% to 4%; two-foot contours for land having slopes of 4% to 12%; and five-foot
contours for land having slopes of greater than 12%;
      (16)   Any proposed alteration or grading, adjustment or change in
elevation or topography, or disturbance of existing vegetation of any area;
      (17)   Locations and directions of flow of existing major waterways,
natural drainageways and ponding areas;
      (18)   Drainage map showing size and extent of existing watersheds and
outlets; proposed subwatersheds and their outlets; detention storage basins and
facilties with indications of future responsibility for maintenance and the
conveyance areas;
      (19)   Floodplain and floodway limits mapped based on current FEMA FIRM
and floodway maps and referencing recent hydraulic studies if applicable;
      (20)   Proposed and existing catch basins, storm sewers, drainageways and
drainage retention or detention basins, with arrows indicating the proposed
direction of drainage flow, including approximate lengths and sizes for storm
sewers;
      (21)   Existing and proposed detention basins and flood hazard areas with
supporting information and calculations;
      (22)   Location and approximate lengths and sizes of existing and
proposed sanitary sewer mains including manholes;
      (23)   Location and size of existing and proposed water mains (with
static pressure), including hydrants (with flow test data) and valves;
      (24)   Locations, types, and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities; and
      (25)   Geotechnical investigation showing any test results to ascertain
subsurface rock and soil conditions and the water table, and a report
addressing soil types referencing the “Soil Survey of Madison County.” Minimum
of two tests in detention storage basins and one per every five acres, unless a
higher frequency is recommended by the Geotechnical Engineer.
   (C)   Submission timeframe. In order to be considered for final action, the
developer or subdivider shall submit the preliminary plat and supporting
information to the Code Administrator at least 14 days prior to the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission, in order to be
considered for the agenda of the meeting.
   (D)   Notification. The Building and Zoning Department shall promptly notify
the Chairperson and members of the Planning Commission of the submission, and
make copies of the preliminary plat available for their review prior to the
scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-16, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.144 ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   At its next regularly scheduled meeting, the Planning Commission shall
review the preliminary plat for compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Should a subdivider/developer request a special meeting of the
Planning Commission, he or she shall first remit payment of $300 to help offset
costs associated with the special meeting.
   (C)   Within 30 days from the date of submission of the preliminary plat or
the filing of the last item of required supporting data, whichever date is
later, the Planning Commission shall either approve or disapprove the
application for preliminary plat approval, unless the Planning Commission and
the subdivider/developer mutually agree to extend this time limit.
      (1)   If the Planning Commission disapproves the preliminary plat, they
shall furnish to the applicant, within the 30-day period, a written statement
specifying the aspects in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this
chapter and/or the official map.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission approves the preliminary plat, they
shall promptly so inform the City Council, the Building and Zoning Department
and the applicant.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission fails to act on a preliminary plat
within the prescribed time limits, the failure to act shall be considered a
positive recommendation.
   (D)   No plat that provides access to a state highway shall be approved by
the Planning Commission until the same has been reviewed by and comments
received from IDOT.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-17, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
§ 153.145 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   If the Planning Commission has approved a preliminary plat, the
City Council, by resolution, shall either accept or reject the plat within 30
days after its next regularly scheduled meeting following the Planning
Commission's action.
      (2)   If the City Council rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to comply with this chapter
and/or the official map.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Council's
resolution of approval or disapproval to the preliminary plat.
      (1)   One copy of the resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk,
one shall be filed with the Code Administrator, and one copy shall be given to
the subdivider/developer.
      (2)   Council approval shall not qualify a preliminary plat for
recording.
   (C)   Approval by the City Council shall be valid for a period of one year
from the date of the resolution, during which time the subdivider/developer
shall submit detailed improvement plans, followed by a final plat for review
and approval by the city.
   (D)   If the subdivider/developer is unable to meet the deadline stipulated
above, the preliminary plat may be resubmitted to the Planning Commission after
the expiration date, and reapproved by them for another one-year period without
assessing additional fees, provided that:
      (1)   No changes have been made in the preliminary plat; and
      (2)   No changes affecting the development have been made in these
subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-18, passed 10-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2016-29, passed 11-7-
2016)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.160 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Following approval of any preliminary plat by the City Council, but
prior to submission of the final plat, the subdivider/developer shall submit
plans to the code enforcement officer for review by the City Engineer, for
those improvements to be installed within or in conjunction with the proposed
subdivision.
      (1)   The subdivider/developer shall submit two copies and one electronic
copy of the plans, specifications and any other supporting documentation.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall be signed and sealed by the
professional engineer registered in the state who was responsible for its
preparation.
   (B)   Until the City Engineer certifies in writing that to the best of his
or her knowledge the proposed improvements conform to the standards imposed in
this chapter:
      (1)   The code enforcement officer shall not issue any permit to allow
construction of the improvements; and
      (2)   The City Council shall not act upon the application for final plat
approval.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-19, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.161 REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING.
   (A)   Generally. Plans and specifications for improvements shall consist of
black line prints not larger than 30 inches by 36 inches. The plans, together
with related specifications shall provide all of the information listed herein.
   (B)   Improvement plans. The subdivider/developer shall submit as part of
his or her improvement plans, street and drainage plans prepared in accordance
with generally accepted engineering standards and all relevant requirements in
these regulations, and including but not limited to the following items:
      (1)   A title page containing the name of the subdivision, a location
map, with scale and north arrow, a title block for the name of the developer
and engineer, and the engineer's seal, as well as:
         (a)   A list of standards and specifications or standard drawings,
which as an option, may be shown on a separate sheet; and
         (b)   A summary of quantities which as an option may be shown on
another sheet.
      (2)   Street plan and profile sheets to a horizontal scale of one inch
equals 20 feet or one inch equals 50 feet and a vertical scale of one inch
equals two feet, or one inch equals five feet, or one inch equals ten feet, and
including, but not limited to, the following items:
         (a)   Title block with subdivision name, identification of information
on sheet, vertical and horizontal scale and sheet number;
         (b)   North arrow;
         (c)   One or more benchmarks;
         (d)   Existing and proposed survey monuments;
         (e)   Profiles of existing ground and proposed centerline of pavement;
         (f)   Locations, sizes and invert elevations of all existing and
proposed storm sewer manholes, storm sewers and catch basins showing
connections to any existing or proposed storm sewer systems;
         (g)   Plans of existing utilities, proposed lots, street right-of-way,
pavements, curb and/or gutter, catch basins, storm sewer (including size),
drainage arrows and the like;
         (h)   All percent grades and curve data;
         (i)   Elevations for existing ground and proposed pavement grade,
storm sewer inverts, inverts and tops for catch basins and retention basins;
         (j)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks;
         (k)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets; and
         (l)   Locations of street signs.
      (3)   Street cross-section sheets showing existing and proposed grades to
a scale of one inch equals ten feet, or one inch equals five feet with
sufficient sections to indicate the typical finished section of each street, as
well as curbs/gutters and catch basins; and
      (4)   Construction detail sheets showing sidewalk ramp designs to a scale
of one inch equals five feet, or one inch equals ten feet with sufficient
information including proposed grades and slope to verify ADA compliance.
   (C)    Grading and drainage plan sheets according to §
153.161(B)(2) to a horizontal scale of one inch equals 20 feet.
   (D)   Erosion control plan. The subdivider/developer shall submit, as part
of his or her improvement plans, an erosion control plan as required in §
156.046, and which shall also include but not be limited to the following
items:
      (1)   Existing topography of the subdivision or development site,
including adjacent land within approximately 100 feet of the site boundaries
drawn at no greater than two-foot contour intervals and clearly portraying the
conformation and drainage pattern of the area;
      (2)   The location of existing buildings, structures, utilities, water
bodies, floodplains, drainage facilities, vegetative cover, paved areas and
other significant natural or human-made features on the site and any adjacent
land within approximately 100 feet of the site boundaries;
      (3)   A general description of the predominant soil types on the site,
their location and their limitations for the proposed use;
      (4)   Proposed use of the site, including present development and planned
utilization; areas of excavation, grading and filling; proposed contours,
finished grades and street profiles; provisions for storm drainage, including
the control of accelerated runoff, with a drainage area map and computations;
kinds and locations or utilities; and areas and acreages proposed to be paved,
covered, sodded or seeded, stabilized with vegetation or left undisturbed.
      (5)   Identification of the person(s) or entity that will have legal
responsibility for maintenance of erosion control structures and measures after
development is completed. Note: the city maintains only those storm sewers that
convey water from a public right-of-way, and then only to a point of natural
discharge. The subdivider/developer, a homeowner's association or individual
property owners retain maintenance responsibility for stormwater drainage
facilities located within subdivided lots and common land areas.
      (6)   A proposed schedule for phasing of stripping, clearing, rough
grading, construction, final grading and landscaping, identifying:
         (a)   The expected date on which clearing will begin and an estimation
of how long cleared areas will be exposed; and
         (b)   The sequence of clearing, installation of temporary sediment
control measures, installation of storm drainage, paving streets and parking
areas, and establishment of permanent vegetative cover.
   (E)   Water mains and sanitary sewer plan. The subdivider/developer shall
also submit plans for the proposed extension of water and sewer mains
throughout the subdivision, which have been prepared by a professional engineer
registered in the state in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and all relevant requirements in these
regulations. The plans shall include but are not limited to the following
items:
      (1)   A title page containing the name of the subdivision, a location
map, with scale and north arrow, a title block for the name of the developer
and engineer, and the engineer's seal, as well as:
         (a)   A list of standards and specifications or standard drawings
which, as an option, may be shown on a separate sheet; and
         (b)   A summary of quantities which, as an option, may be shown on
another sheet.
      (2)   Water and sanitary sewer system plan and profile sheets to a
horizontal scale of one inch equals 20 feet or one inch equals 50 feet, and a
vertical scale of one inch equals two feet, or one inch equals five feet, or
one inch equals ten feet, and including but not limited to the following items:
         (a)   Title block with subdivision name, identification of information
on sheet, vertical and horizontal scale and sheet number;
         (b)   North arrow;
         (c)   One or more benchmarks;
         (d)   Plans of existing and proposed sewer and water mains including
valves, hydrants, bends, manholes and main sizes;
         (e)   Locations of existing and proposed natural gas, electric,
telephone and other utilities;
         (f)   Profiles of existing grade, proposed grade, water mains,
manholes and sewer main;
         (g)   Elevations of manhole inverts and tops of frame;
         (h)   Locations and limits of trench backfill; and
         (i)   Locations of force mains and lift stations, along with detail
sheet for any such lift stations.
   (F)   Other features. The subdivider/developer shall also submit plans or
illustrations of the following features:
      (1)   Any flood-prone areas detailed on a topographical map at the same
scale as required in the preliminary plat illustrating that all lots and
improvements will be above the regulatory flood evaluation;
      (2)   High water elevations of all lakes and streams adjoining or within
the tract;
      (3)   Locations of all wooded areas;
      (4)   Locations, dimensions and areas of any parcels to be reserved for
parks, playgrounds, bike paths or other public purposes as detailed in §
153.087;
      (5)   All proposed measures to permanently control erosion and
sedimentation; and
      (6)   Any other information as the City Engineer may reasonably require
to perform his or her duties under this section.
   (G)   EPA permit applications. The appropriate permit forms as required by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency shall be completed by the
subdivider/developer's engineer and submitted in conjunction with the water
main and sanitary sewer plans for the city’s review and subsequent signature.
   (H)   Drainage calculations according to §
156.028(B) which validate storm sewer sizes and catch basin spacing along with
an illustration of the various drainage areas and/or watersheds, and which are
to be reviewed by the City Engineer.
   (I)   Pavement design calculations according to §§
153.041(B) and
153.043(B) as required including soil subgrade modifications calculations by a
geotechnical engineer. Assumed traffic shall match the approved traffic
assessment study prepared in §
153.143(A) as applicable.
   (J)   Water main sizing calculations according to §
153.081(A) as required to justify pipe sizes shown on the plans.
   (K)   Sanitary sewer main and lift station calculations according to §
153.082(B) and (H) as required to justify pipe sizes, lift station design
element sizes (e.g., wet well, pumps, etc.) as shown on the plans.
   (L)   Construction cost estimates for public improvements shall be updated
based on further design refinement to meet the improvement plan standards.
   (M)   Improvements checklist A completed “Improvement Plan Checklist” signed
by both the subdivider/developer and his or her engineer who prepared the
improvement plans.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-20, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.162 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL.
   No improvements shall be constructed by the subdivider/developer until all
required improvement plans and applicable permit forms have been received by
the city, reviewed, found acceptable as submitted and approved in writing.
   (A)   Should plans not be found acceptable, written approval may be issued
based upon a requirement that corrections set forth by the city are made,
incorporated into the plans by the developer's engineer. Should this happen,
two sets of the plans and one electronic copy shall be resubmitted to the city
for review and approval.
   (B)   Approval is also contingent upon the city receiving copies of IEPA
water and sewer permits and IDOT entrance and right-of-way permits all
indicating approval by those agencies.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-21, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.163 CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall not be obligated to accept ownership and/or maintenance
of any proposed improvements unless the improvements have been inspected during
construction and accepted by the city.
   (B)   Following submittal and acceptance of the improvement plans, the
subdivider/developer shall call a pre-construction meeting at the job site with
the City Engineer, the subdivider/developer, his or her engineer,
representatives of the utilities involved and the contractor(s) in attendance.
   (C)   During the course of construction, the subdivider/developer or his or
her duly authorized representative shall notify the Building and Zoning
Department at least 48 hours in advance of the need for the following
inspections which shall be considered the minimum requirement:
      (1)   Required earthwork inspections:
         (a)   Subsequent to stripping and clearing but prior to excavating or
placing fill material;
         (b)   Upon completion of rough grading;
         (c)   Prior to fine sub-grading;
         (d)   At the time compaction density tests are performed on sub-grade
(reviewed by code enforcement officer or City Engineer); and
         (e)   Upon completion of final grading.
      (2)   Required pavement inspections:
         (a)   Immediately prior to placement of curbs and/or gutters;
         (b)   Subsequent to fine sub-grading and prior to placement of the
lower pavement course; and
         (c)   Prior to placement of each succeeding course of pavement (base,
surface and the like).
      (3)   Required drainage inspections:
         (a)   Prior to placement of storm sewer backfill; and
         (b)   Prior to construction of gutter outlets into catch basins.
      (4)   Required sewer and water inspections:
         (a)   Prior to backfilling the connection to the existing main; and
         (b)   Daily during the construction of sanitary sewers and water mains
if the latter are installed by the subdivider/developer's contractor.
   (D)   The City Engineer or a designated city employee shall inspect the
improvements while they are under construction and at the milestones indicated
herein.
      (1)   If the inspections determine that improvements are being built in
violation of this chapter or the approved plans, the inspector shall promptly
notify the code enforcement officer who, in turn, shall issue a stop work
order.
      (2)   Proceeding in violation of a stop work order is a violation of this
chapter.
   (E)   The City Engineer and/or code enforcement officer and accompanied by
the subdivider/developer or his or her engineer shall also inspect improvements
upon their completion.
      (1)   The city shall not accept any completed improvements until the City
Engineer has verified to the best of his or her ability that each complies with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The subdivider/developer shall be notified in writing of all
improvements which are not acceptable and shall thereafter correct or replace
the improvements until they meet the city's requirements.
      (3)   All monuments and pins delineating the subdivision shall have been
set prior to the final inspection.
   (F)   (1)   If field changes are necessary or problems arise during
construction, the developer shall immediately contact the Building and Zoning
Department.
      (2)   Notes on the field changes shall be kept in the city’s project file
and forwarded to the developer’s engineer for future reference.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-22, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.164 REQUIREMENTS FOR “AS-BUILT” RECORDS.
   As-built information will be provided to the “Engineer of Record” who will
have a professional land surveyor prepare record drawings based on as-built
information. Within 30 days after the completion and acceptance of all
improvements, the Engineer for the developer shall deliver record drawings
(“as-built” plans) in the form of two black line prints and one electronic copy
for each of the improvements constructed. As-builts will contain the
information on the design drawings, plus the following additional information:
   (A)   As-builts are to document changes between the design and construction.
All information that is incorrect due to changes during construction will be
corrected. Incorrect or no longer relevant information will be erased or struck
through.
   (B)   Water and sewer record drawings shall include the location and depth
of all service laterals; the size, location and flow line elevations of all
mains; the top and flow line elevations of all manholes, valves, hydrants; and
any other pertinent information.
      (1)   Any water and sewer facilities constructed in a horizontal or
vertical location materially different than the design location will have their
design location struck through and will be redrafted at the constructed
location.
      (2)   Any dimensions or callouts (e.g., type, location, size, material,
etc.) to water and sewer facilities will be corrected as necessary.
   (C)   Grading record drawings shall include revised contouring and
directional arrows indicating the flow of stormwater, front and rear, for each
lot in the subdivision.
   (D)   GIS Requirements. The city has implemented geographical information
systems (GIS) technologies to store, manage, and maintain spatially-related
data. As a result, during installation actual point coordinate locations (X, Y,
and Z) shall be captured. All developers shall submit digital as-built plans
according to the following requirements:
      (1)   Submittal requirements. As-built digital plan drawings shall be
submitted showing the location and details of the actual constructed
improvements. The as-built shall be submitted with a sealed cover letter from a
licensed Illinois Land Surveyor indicated that the location and elevation of
the following items shown in the as-built have been verified under the direct
supervision of the surveyor with an error of closure of not more than one to
5,000 feet.
      (2)   Water system items. Inventory water system fittings and valves
(elevation at top of fitting/ valve), fire hydrants (elevation to the bottom of
the cap on the steamer fitting), and top of pipes every 200 feet along straight
runs. Indicate pipe and valve sizes/materials.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer system items. Inventory manholes (cover elevation,
invert elevation(s) and pipe diameter(s).
      (4)   Storm sewer system items. Inventory catch basins, inlets, manholes,
and pipe outfalls (elevation at top of cover, bottom of throat, invert(s) and
pipe diameter(s)).
      (5)   Property. Inventory property corner pins and easements being
granted to utility companies.
      (6)   Datums. Submissions shall use the following geographic projection
and datum:
         (a)   Projection. State Plan Illinois West.
         (b)   Horizontal datum. NAD83 (North American Datum of 1983).
         (c)   Vertical datum. NAVD88 (North American Vertical Datum of 1988).
         (d)   Datum conversion. NADCON.
         (e)   Unit of measure. U.S. survey foot.
   (E)   No building permits shall be issued for any lots within a subdivision
until the record drawings have been provided to the city.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-23, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.165 REQUIREMENTS FOR ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION.
   The City Council shall not approve any final plat of subdivision and
therefore the final plat shall not be entitled to recording until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the approved improvements plan have been
completed by the subdivider/developer at his or her expense, inspected by the
City Engineer, and dedicated to the city or other appropriate entity; or
   (B)   At the discretion of the City Council and in accordance with the
provisions below, the subdivider/developer has provided the city with legal
assurance to guarantee the satisfactory completion and dedication of all
required improvements.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-24, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.166 ACCEPTABLE FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   At the direction of the City Council, the required legal assurance shall be
in the form of an escrow deposit.
   (A)   Any funds to be held in escrow shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer.
   (B)   Every escrow deposit shall be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to the city the availability of the escrow funds from
time to time upon demand; or
   (C)   The amount of an irrevocable letter of credit shall be equal to one
and one half times the City Engineer's estimate of the cost of constructing the
unfinished portion of the required improvements plus all required inspection
fees. The estimate shall initially be prepared by the subdivider/developer's
engineer and subsequently reviewed and adjusted by the City Engineer, as he or
she deems appropriate.
   (D)   For any improvements that will be dedicated to some other governmental
entity, assurance shall be posted with the official designated by the entity.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-25, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Fee schedule, see
Ch. 37, App. A
§ 153.167 TERM OF ASSURANCE, EXTENSION.
   The initial term of any escrow agreement shall not exceed one year. If all
the required improvements have not been completed by the end of the one year
period, the Code Enforcement Officer with the advice and consent of the City
Council may either extend the escrow agreement for one year only or may proceed
as per §
153.169.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-27, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.168 RELEASE OF BOND, ESCROW DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The City Clerk or Treasurer may release up to 75% of the amount of the
escrow deposit upon receipt of written authorization from the City Engineer.
      (1)   The amount which the City Engineer authorizes to be released shall
be equal to the value of improvements actually completed in accordance with
approved plans.
      (2)   If escrow was provided in the form of an irrevocable letter of
credit, the City Engineer may designate a portion of the reserved credit to be
released and no longer obligated to the city.
   (B)   The balance of the amount of the escrow deposit shall not be released
until:
      (1)   The City Engineer has notified the Code Enforcement Officer in
writing that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed;
      (2)   The improvements have been dedicated to and accepted by the city or
other appropriate entity; and
      (3)   The subdivider/developer has posted the maintenance bond required
by §
153.192.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-28, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 153.169 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   If all required improvements have not been completed by the end of the one-
year period (or two-year period in the case of an extension), the Code
Enforcement Officer with the assistance of the City Attorney may;
   (A)   Require the surety to perform on the bond and to pay to the city an
amount equal to the cost of completing the required improvements as estimated
by the City Engineer or the amount of the bond not theretofore released,
whichever is less;
   (B)   Order the City Treasurer to retain all escrowed funds needed to
complete the required improvements and to return the balance, if any, of the
funds to the subdivider/developer; or
   (C)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new escrow deposit in an
amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of constructing the
required improvements.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-29, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
FINAL PLATS
§ 153.185 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
    Every person who seeks final approval for the proposed subdivision of any
land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city shall file two
copies of a final plat of the subdivision with the Code Administrator, along
with two copies of all supporting documentation, and one electronic copy of a
final plat of the subdivision and all supporting documentation.
   (A)   The County Recorder of Deeds shall not record any final plat of a
subdivision located within the subdivision jurisdiction of the city until the
final plat has been approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council shall not approve any final plat unless it determines
that the plat is in compliance with all pertinent requirements of this chapter,
including those set forth below.
      The subdivider/developer of every subdivision, whether major or minor,
but excluding land specifically exempted from the Illinois Plat Act as now or
hereafter amended (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1(b)), who desires final plat
approval, shall file two copies of the final plat and supporting data with the
Code Administrator not later than one year after preliminary plat approval has
been granted; provided, however, that with the consent of the City Council, the
subdivider/developer may delay application for final approval of part(s) of the
tract shown on the preliminary plat, for successive one year periods not to
exceed five years.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-30, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.186 REQUIREMENTS FOR FILING.
   (A)    Every final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor registered in
the state and drawn with waterproof black ink on new Mylar or other material of
similar durability.
   (B)   The plat shall be at any scale necessary for clarity, preferably no
smaller than one inch equals 100 feet, provided the resultant drawing does not
exceed 30 inches by 36 inches, and shall provide all of the following
information:
      (1)   Identification as a “Final Plat” and name of the proposed
subdivision;
      (2)   North arrow, graphic scale and data;
      (3)   The names, addresses and phone numbers of the subdivider/developer,
owner and land surveyor who prepared the plat;
      (4)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract;
      (5)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearing or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
      (6)   Locations of all monuments;
      (7)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record
name, plat book and page number;
      (8)   Accurate locations and names of all existing streets intersecting
the boundaries of the subdivision;
      (9)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way, easements
and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles or bearings and curve data,
including radii, arcs or chords, points of tangency and central angles;
      (10)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
      (11)   Location, dimensions and purpose of any existing or proposed
easements;
      (12)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions and lot area in square feet;
      (13)   Addresses for each lot as approved by the 9-1-1 Coordinator and
illustrated within an oval, provided that on any corner or through lot, each
possible address shall be illustrated at the appropriate street frontage;
      (14)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions;
      (15)   Location(s) and purpose(s) for any sites, other than private lots,
that are reserved;
      (16)   Floodplain and floodway limits mapped based on current FEMA/FIRM
and floodway maps - including reference to preliminary FEMA/FIRM, floodway
maps, or recent hydraulic studies.
      (17)   Lowest allowable sill elevation shall be designated on the final
plat for each lot located partially or fully within a mapped floodplain or
within the high-water elevation predicted for the design storms of a major
stormwater conveyance system;
      (18)   Reference to the requirement that all first-floor entry elevations
shall be greater than one foot above the back-of-curb height at the road unless
pre-approved by the city.
      (19)   Locations, dimensions and areas of any parcels to be reserved for
public purposes;
      (20)   Location, type and width of existing and proposed easements for
access to proposed green spaces;
      (21)   An index, should two or more sheets be used; and
      (22)   Preparations date and revision date.
   (C)    As a separate supporting document, the subdivider/developer shall
submit written restrictions of all types, which will run with the land and
become recorded covenants in the deeds of lots and common grounds.
   (D)   As a separate supporting document, the subdivider developer shall also
submit a completed “Final Plat Checklist”, signed by both the developer and the
engineer or surveyor who prepared the plat.
   (E)   As another separate supporting document, the subdivider/developer
shall submit a completed “Certification of Agency Approval” form, signed by a
professional engineer or land surveyor, registered in the state, and certifying
that the following agencies were properly notified of the subdivision/
development, as required, and that each has provided a “sign-off’ for the
development to proceed:
      (1)   The Illinois Historic Preservation Agency (HPA - Archeological);
      (2)   The Illinois Department of Natural Resources (IDNR - Endangered
Species);
      (3)   The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA - NPDES permit
for sites over one acre in size);
      (4)   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA - water construction
permit);
      (5)   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA - wastewater
collection system permit - WPC-PS-1 and schedules as appropriate);
      (6)   Joint 404 permit application (US. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE)),
Illinois Department of Natural Resources Office of Water Resources (IDNR-OWR),
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency EPA);
      (7)   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA-Water Quality
Certification - 401);
      (8)   The Soil Conservation Service (SCS - Land Use Review);
      (9)   Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) entrance permit;
      (10)   Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) grading permit;
      (11)   Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) utility permit;
      (12)   Madison County Highway Department entrance/highway permit;
      (13)   Federal Aviation Administration FAA obstruction permit 7460-1
(projects near St Louis Metro East Airport/Shafer Field - east of the city);
and
      (14)   AMCB/IEPA approval for projects to be added to the city’s facility
planning area.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-31, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.187 REQUIRED CERTIFICATES.
    As required in part by state law (ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2), and by the
county and the city, the following certificates shall be executed on all final
plats.
   (A)    Owner’s certificate.
      We, [insert names of owners], the Owners of [insert legal description],
have caused the said tract to be surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown,
and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known as [insert subdivision name].
All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of
the public forever including the release and waiver of the right of homestead
under the Homestead Exemption laws of the State of Illinois. The utility/
drainage easements shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the City of Troy and
the public and private utility companies, as their interests may appear for
access (vehicular and pedestrian), survey, construction, and maintenance of
utilities and other public purposes.
      Dated this [date] day of [month], [year].
       [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
       [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
   (B)   Notary Public certificate.
      State of Illinois      )
                  ) SS.
      County of Madison      )
      I, [insert notary name], a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid,
do hereby certify that [insert names of owners], are personally known to me to
be the same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and
that they appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged that they
signed and sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the uses and
purposes therein set forth.
      Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this [date] day of [month], [year].
       [notary’s signature] (Seal)
      Notary
                                            
      Commission Expires
   (C)   Surveyor’s certificate.
      I, [insert surveyor’s name], a professional Land Surveyor registered in
the State of Illinois, do hereby certify that this plat is a correct
representation of a survey made under my direct supervision at the request of
[insert names of owners] for the purpose of subdividing the tract into lots as
shown.
       [surveyor’s signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Land Surveyor
                                            
      Registration Number
                                            
      Date
   (D)   County Clerk’s certificate.
      I, [insert County Clerk’s name], County Clerk of Madison County,
Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no unpaid or forfeited taxes against
any of the real estate included within this plat.
       [County Clerk’s signature]  (Seal)
      County Clerk
                                            
      Date
   (E)    9-1-1 Coordinator’s certificate.
      I, the undersigned, 9-1-1 Coordinator of Madison County, Illinois, do
hereby approve this plat as to street names and addresses.
       [9-1-1 coordinator’s signature]  (Seal)
      9-1-1 Coordinator
      Madison County, Illinois
                                                 
      Date
   (F)    Mapping and platting approval.
      Approved by Mapping and Platting this [date] day of [month], [year].
                                                                         
      Signature
   (G)   Certificate of City Council.
      I, [insert Mayor’s name] Mayor of the City of Troy, do hereby certify
that the plat shown herein was duly presented to the City Council, and approved
at a meeting of same held on
       [date] .
       [Mayor’s signature]  (Seal)
      Mayor
       [City Clerks’s signature]  (Seal)
      City Clerk
   (H)   Flood hazard certificate.
      We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that [no part of this plat to be
recorded] [part of this plat to be recorded, as illustrated,] is situated
within special flood hazard area (with a 100-year return frequency or less) as
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      By:  [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [surveyor’s signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Land Surveyor
                                                            
      Registration Number
                                                            
      Date
   (I)   Surface water drainage certificate.
      We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that to the best of our knowledge
and belief, the drainage of surface waters will not be changed by the
construction of this subdivision or any part thereof, or if such surface water
drainage will be changed, provisions have been made for the collection and
diversion of said surface waters into public areas or drainage facilities which
the subdivision has a right to use, and that management of said surface waters
has been planned for in accordance with accepted engineering practices so as to
prevent damage to any adjoining property as a result of construction of this
subdivision.
      By:  [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [owner’s signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [engineer’s signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Professional Engineer
                                                            
      Registration Number
                                                            
      Date
   (J)   Undermining certificate.
      We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that we have reviewed the Mined
Out Coal area Map No.                as available from the Illinois State
Geological Survey in Urbana, Illinois, and that it appears [part] [none] of the
subdivided property shown hereon lies within a mined-out area.
      By:  [surveyor’s signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Land Surveyor
                                                            
      Registration Number
                                                            
      Date
   (K)   Illinois Department of Transportation certification.
      (For those subdivisions that provide access to a state highway, the
following certification shall also be required and executed on the final plat)
      This plat has been approved by IDOT with respect to roadway access
pursuant to 765 ILCS 205/2. However, if a highway permit for access is required
by the owner of the property, a plan that meets the requirements contained in
the Department’s “Policy On Permits For Access Driveways To State Highways”
will be required by the Department.
      By:  [district engineer’s signature]  (Seal)
      District Engineer
                                                            
      Date
   (L)   Local Highway Department Certification.
      (For those subdivisions that provide access to a county or township
highway, the following certification shall also be required and executed on the
final plat)
      This plat has been approved by the [insert name of jurisdiction] with
respect to roadway access pursuant to 765 ILCS 205/2.
        [signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Land Surveyor
       [typed name of official]
      
                                                            
      Date
   (M)   Driveway, Sidewalk and Parking Lot Compaction Statement.
      The Owner and/or Builder/ Developer with consultation of a qualified
professional engineer will insure adequate compaction of grades under
sidewalks, driveway and parking lots when installed over public road right-of-
way and easements. The City of Troy assumes no responsibility for any
settlement or pavement damage and the Owner and/or Builder/ Developer hereby
agrees to hold the City harmless from any future costs or maintenance of said
sidewalks, driveways, and/or parking lots.
      By:  [owner signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [builder/developer’s signature]  (Seal)
      Builder/Developer
   (N)   Dam Coordination Statement
      (For those subdivisions that have a dam that should be permitted with the
IDNR, the following certification shall also be required and executed on the
final plat)
      We the undersigned, do hereby certify to the best of our knowledge and
belief that all applicable state agencies - including the Illinois Department
of Natural Resources governing the construction, modification, and/ or repair
to dam structures on natural, detention, or retention ponds have been consulted
with. Furthermore, said agencies have reviewed and approved the design,
construction, and/ or repair of the proposed improvements.
      By:  [owner signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [engineer’s signature]  (Seal)
      Illinois Professional Engineer
                                                            
      Registration Number
                                                            
      Date
   (O)   Sidewalk Connection Statement
      The Owner and/or Builder/Developer with consultation of a qualified
professional engineer certifies that sidewalks with accessible ramps meeting
the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Design Standards were installed at
street intersections when the streets were constructed. Adjoining sidewalls may
be installed at the time the driveways are installed except, when 90% of the
lots are developed within a block - or within a phase - whichever comes first,
the remaining sidewalks on undeveloped lots will be installed by the Owner and/
or Builder/Developer within 120 days of the last occupancy permit being issued.
      By:  [owner signature]  (Seal)
      Owner
      By:  [builder/developer’s signature]  (Seal)
      Builder/Developer
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-32, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.188 ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)    Within seven business days from the date the final plat and all
supporting documentation has been filed with the city, the Code Administrator
shall notify the president of the school board of each public school district
in which any of the subdivided land is located that the plat has been submitted
for approval and is available for inspection.
      (2)   The notice shall also give the date, time and location of the
meeting at which it is anticipated that the plat will be considered by the City
Council for approval or disapproval.
   (B)   (1)   Within 45 days from the date of submission of an application for
final plat approval, or the filing of the last item of required supporting
data, whichever is later, the Code Administrator shall review the final plat
and supporting data, and shall advise the City Council in writing whether it
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat.
      (2)   A copy of the Code Administrator’s advisory report shall be
forwarded to the Planning Commission, who may prepare an addendum to the report
if it so desires, and forward same to the City Council.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-33, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.189 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)    Within 60 days from the date of submission of an application
for final plat approval, or the filing of the last item of required supporting
data, whichever date is later, the City Council shall either approve or
disapprove the application by resolution unless the Council and the subdivider/
developer mutually agree to extend this time limit.
      (2)   Failure to act within the prescribed time limits shall be deemed
approval.
   (B)   The City Council shall not approve any final plat unless:
      (1)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved preliminary
plat;
      (2)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the Future
Land Use Plan and with the design and improvements standards of this chapter;
      (3)   To the Council’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies with
all pertinent requirements of state law; and
      (4)   Either of the following has been met:
         (a)   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
dedicated and accepted; or
         (b)   The subdivider/developer has deposited funds in escrow to
guarantee the satisfactory completion and dedication of all required
improvements.
   (C)   If the City Council disapproves the final plat, its resolution shall
specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions for
approval.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Council’s
resolution of approval or disapproval to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the Administrator and one copy shall be given to the subdivider/developer.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall also return the original Mylar of the final plat
to the subdivider/ developer, with appropriate signatures of city officials.
      (1)   Within 60 days following approval by the city, the subdivider/
developer shall secure all remaining required signatures and cause the final
plat to be filed and recorded with the County Recorder of Deeds.
      (2)   The subdivider/developer shall thereafter provide the Building and
Zoning Department with one print, one electronic copy and one Mylar
reproducible of the recorded plat.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-34, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.190 CHANGES IN APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
    Once a final plat is approved by the City Council, it shall not thereafter
be modified; provided, however, that minor changes may be made upon written
application to the Code Administrator. Major changes shall require the filing
of a new final plat and complete review as provided for herein. An example of
an allowable minor change is a lot line changing by a few feet with all
affected lots still meeting city standards. Any change that affects the street
layout, overall number of lots, or requires a variance is considered a major
change.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-35, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.191 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
    Subsequent to completion of the improvements within the development by the
subdivider/developer, the City Engineer and Code Administrator shall make an
inspection of the improvements to ascertain the acceptability of the structural
condition, earth slopes and drainage structures, and that all other
requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (A)   If the inspection indicates no deficient items and, all “as-built”
drawings have been filed with the Code Administrator, and the subdivider/
developer has posted an appropriate maintenance bond, as hereinafter set forth,
the City Council shall take formal action to dedicate the completed
improvements for maintenance.
   (B)   (1)   Should any improvement require correction or repair, the
subdivider/ developer shall be notified, in writing, of each deficiency.
      (2)   No street(s) will be accepted in a subdivision until all streets
comply with the requirements of this chapter to the satisfaction of the City
Engineer and Code Administrator.
   (C)   Should the subdivider/developer fail to properly correct any of the
noted deficiencies, he or she shall be responsible for all maintenance, other
than snow and ice control, until such time as the streets are completely
acceptable to the city.
      (1)   Under this situation, the subdivider/developer’s maintenance
responsibility shall be construed to include but not be limited to regular
mowing of the parkways; periodic cleaning of debris from the pavement and
gutters; and periodic cleaning of storm sewers and catch basins.
      (2)   Should the subdivider/developer fail to discharge any of these
responsibilities, he or she will be notified to rectify the situation by the
Building and Zoning Department.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-36, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.192 DURATION OF GUARANTEE.
   (A)   All improvements within a development shall be guaranteed by the
developer to be in satisfactory condition and in compliance with this chapter
for a period of two years from the date of acceptance by the city.
       (1)   Prior to dedication and acceptance, the subdivider developer shall
post a maintenance bond (or letter of credit) with the City Clerk in a form
approved by the City Attorney.
      (2)   The bond shall be in an amount determined by the City Engineer to
be sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required
improvements for a period of at least two years, generally 25% of the estimated
construction costs.
   (C)   If at any time during the guarantee period any improvements are found
to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the subdivider/
developer’s expense.
      (1)   If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay the costs
within 30 days after demand is made upon him or her by the Code Administrator,
the city shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/
replacement.
      (2)   If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the
subdivider/ developer shall be liable for the excess.
   (D)   At the end of the two-year guarantee period, the subdivider/developer
shall request a final inspection of all subdivision improvements, by sending
written notice to the city at least 30 days prior to the end of the period.
      (1)   The City Engineer and Code Administrator shall verify to the best
of his or her ability that each improvement complies with the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   The subdivider/developer shall be notified in writing of any
improvements that are found to be defective, and shall repair or replace the
deficiencies at his or her expense.
      (3)   When all improvements pass the final inspection, the city shall
issue a letter releasing the subdivider/developer from any further
responsibility for the improvements.
      (4)   Should the subdivider/developer fail to request a final inspection
in writing at least 30 days prior to the end of the guarantee period, the
guarantee period shall be extended until 30 days after such time as a request
is received and the improvements are inspected and determined to be acceptable
to the city.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-37, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.193 VARIATIONS.
    Any subdivider/developer desiring a variation from the requirements of this
chapter shall file a written application therefor with the Code Administrator
at the same time that he or she files his or her preliminary plat.
   (A)   The application shall fully explain the grounds for the variance
request and specify the section(s) of this chapter that, if strictly applied,
would cause great practical difficulties or hardship.
   (B)   The Code Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on every
application for variation and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Any variation proposed herein by the developer, which is in effect a
variation of the provisions of the code of ordinances adopted by the city,
shall only be allowed and granted in compliance with the procedures outlined in
the code. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as to allow a variation
of lot size, setbacks or any other regulation of Chapter 154.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-38, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.194 REVIEW BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)    The Planning Commission shall review the application for variation
and the Code Administrator’s comments, and submit its advisory report to the
City Council, together with its recommendation on preliminary plat approval.
   (B)   The Planning Commission’s advisory report shall be responsive to all
of the following variance standards:
      (1)   The proposed variation is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter;
      (2)   Strict application of the subdivision design and improvement
requirements would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant, not a mere inconvenience;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from the subdivision
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variation request are
not applicable to other tracts and, therefore, that a variation would be a more
appropriate remedy than an amendment; and
      (6)    The variation, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, including the Future Land Use Plan.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-39, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.195 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)    At the same meeting at which they take action on the application for
preliminary plat approval, the City Council shall decide by resolution whether
to grant or deny the requested subdivision variation.
   (B)   A copy of its decision, clearly stating its reasons therefor and the
exact terms of any variation granted, shall be attached to both the preliminary
and final plats.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-40, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER
§ 153.210 AMENDMENTS.
    Any party in interest, including the City Engineer or any member of the
City Council or Planning Commission desiring an amendment to the text of this
chapter shall file a written application therefore with the Code Administrator.
   (A)   The application shall fully explain the grounds for the requested
amendment and specify the section(s) of this chapter that, if strictly applied,
would cause great practical difficulties or hardship.
   (B)   The Code Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on every
application for amendment and submit it, together with the completed
application, to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-41, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.211 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)    Within 60 days of application for an amendment to the text of this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city, not more than 30 days, nor less than 15
days before the hearing date.
   (C)   At the same time, a copy of the notice shall be sent by first class
mail to the applicant.
   (D)   At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall prepare an advisory report, responsive
to the following standards:
      (1)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter;
      (2)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the amendment request are
applicable to many tracts and, therefore, that a variation would not be a more
appropriate remedy than an amendment; and
      (3)   The amendment, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, including the Official Map.
   (F)    The advisory report shall be submitted to the City Council within 30
days following the conclusion of the public hearing.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-42, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.212 ACTION BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
    At the next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the advisory
report from the Planning Commission, the City Council shall act on the request
for amendment.
   (A)   Without another public hearing, the City Council may vote to either
pass, reject the proposed amendment, may pass a modified version of the
amendment, or may refer it back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration.
   (B)   If the Council votes to pass the amendment or a modified version
thereof, it shall do so by ordinance at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-43, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)    Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply
with, or who resists enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, shall be
guilty of a civil offense punishable by a fine only of not less than $25, nor
more than $500, plus costs, for each offense.
   (B)   Each day that a violation continues after notification is given
thereof, shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Notification shall be by regular mail from the city to the last known
mailing address of the violator.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking
any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-21, § 18.5-4-1, passed 10-5-2009; Ord. 2017-09, passed 5-1-2017)
APPENDIX A (Chapter 153): STANDARD SPECIFICATION PLAN SHEETS
Section
   
1   Typical Street Construction Details
   1.8   Local (Residential - R-1E)
   
2   Typical Sanitary Sewer Construction Details
   
3   Typical Water System Construction Details
§ 1 TYPICAL STREET CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2390.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2392.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2394.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2396.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2398.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2400.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2402.jpg]
 
§ 2 TYPICAL SANITARY SEWER CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2408.jpg]
 
§ 3 TYPICAL WATER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2410.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 154: ZONING ORDINANCE
Editor’s note:
   The zoning ordinance codified in full with the S-3 Supplement was based upon
Ordinance 2004-21, passed 8-2-2004, as amended by Ordinance 2006-29, passed 11-
6-2006; Ordinance 2001-10, passed 7-18-2011; and Ordinance 2014-02, passed 1-
21-2014. As a result, histories were not provided after any of the sections of
the new Chapter 154 codified as part of the S-3 Supplement. Histories will only
be provided once sections have been amended by subsequent ordinances.
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Jurisdiction
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.005   Definitions
General Zoning Regulations
   
154.020   Establishment of districts and zoning district regulations
   
154.021   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
154.022   General prohibition
   
154.023   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
154.024   Temporary and portable structures/uses
   
154.025   One building and all yards on one lot
   
154.026   Access required
   
154.027   Front setbacks - corner/through lots
   
154.028   Front setbacks in certain built-up areas
   
154.029   Intrusion into yards
   
154.030   Exceptions to height limits
   
154.031   Accessory uses
   
154.032   Schedule: area and bulk regulations; parking requirements
   
154.033   Schedule: permitted and special uses
Supplementary Zoning Regulations
   
154.045   Applicability of subchapter
   
154.046   Recreational vehicles and camping trailers
   
154.047   Fences and walls
   
154.048   Automotive (motor vehicle) service stations
   
154.049   Home occupations
   
154.050   Nursing homes
   
154.051   Junk yards
   
154.052   Sanitary landfills
   
154.053   Schools
   
154.054   Swimming pools
   
154.055   AAerials, antennas, telecommunication towers and facilities, small
cell facilities and utility substations
   
154.056   Manufactured (mobile) homes
   
154.057   Public buildings
   
154.058   Kennels
   
154.059   Agricultural activities
   
154.060   Lighting controls
   
154.061   Privacy screening
   
154.062   Adult entertainment establishments
   
154.063   Dumpster/trash disposal
   
154.064   Planned developments
   
154.065   Above ground storage tanks
   
154.066   Exterior building design and materials
   
154.067   Individual sewage systems
   
154.068   Adult use cannabis
   
154.069   Short-term rentals
Supplementary Off-street Parking and Loading Regulations
   
154.080   Applicability of subchapter
   
154.081   Parking design and maintenance standards
   
154.082   Parking surfaces
   
154.083   Stormwater detention
   
154.084   Location of parking
   
154.085   Landscaping of parking lots
   
154.086   Computation of required parking spaces
   
154.087   Parking spaces required
   
154.088   Off-street loading facilities
   
154.089   Design requirements for loading spaces
   
154.090   Requirements for drive-throughs
Non-conformities
   
154.100   Purpose of subchapter
   
154.101   Non-conforming lots
   
154.102   Non-conforming structures
   
154.103   Non-conforming uses occupying a structure
   
154.104   Non-conforming use of land
   
154.105   Open land, non-conforming use
   
154.106   Non-conformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.120   Code Official
   
154.121   Building permits
   
154.122   Procedures upon violation
   
154.123   Emergency measures
   
154.124   Complaints
   
154.125   Review under administrative review law
Special Uses and Amendments
   
154.140   Planning Commission established
   
154.141   Special use permits
   
154.142   Temporary use permits
   
154.143   Amendments
Zoning Hearing Officer; Variances
   
154.155   Office of Zoning Hearing Officer established
   
154.156   Powers and duties
   
154.157   Appeals
   
154.158   Variances
   
154.159   Procedure
   
154.160   City Council power of administrative review
   
154.161   Judicial review of final decision
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates structures and
land uses in order to preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety
and welfare. More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving
the following objectives:
      (1)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents;
      (2)   To discourage development of buildings and uses on sites not suited
for development;
      (3)   To protect the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial and industrial areas;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout
this municipality;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air and privacy to the
occupants of all buildings;
      (6)   To provide adequate parking and access for all buildings and lots;
      (7)   To reduce congestion on the public streets and highways and to
regulate and control population density;
      (8)   To protect property from damage caused by fire, or by flooding and
poorly controlled storm water runoff;
      (9)   To guide the provision of water, sewer, storm water, and other
utilities and municipal services;
      (10)   To reduce the initial costs and future maintenance expenses of
public and private improvements and services through thoughtful planning;
      (11)   To gradually eliminate existing structures and uses that impede
achievement of the above objectives; and
      (12)   To regulate the building height.
   (B)   Scope. In order to achieve the objectives enumerated in division (A)
of this section, this chapter:
      (1)   Divides this entire municipality into districts, and permits in
each district only those structures and uses that are compatible with the
character of such district;
      (2)   Regulates lots size, and the bulk, setbacks, lot coverage, and
manner of use of structures;
      (3)   Imposes supplementary regulations to control certain potentially
troublesome structures and uses;
      (4)   Sets forth standards for off-street parking areas;
      (5)   Restricts non-conforming lots, structures, and uses that adversely
affect the type of development appropriate in each district; and
      (6)   Establishes zoning administrative and enforcement procedures.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.002 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of Troy,
Illinois.
   (B)   Whenever any territory is annexed to the city, the annexed area shall
be designated as an “R-1” District classification until such time that an
amendment is passed in accordance with the provisions of §
154.143 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.003 INTERPRETATION.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of
this municipality, and every requirement imposed in this chapter shall be
deemed minimal. Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed
restriction, or covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.004 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent or employee of this municipality shall render
himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent, or employee
of this municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the City of
Troy until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed:
      (1)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in division (B) of this section unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise; terms not defined in division (B) of this section shall have their
standard English meanings.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and the plural the singular.
      (5)   The term “shall” is mandatory.
      (6)   The term “may” is discretionary.
      (7)   The term “this municipality” shall mean the City of Troy, Illinois.
      (8)   The words “lot”, “parcel”, “tract”, and “site” shall be synonymous.
      (9)   The words “building and/or structures” shall include all nonliving
improvements upon the land.
      (10)   The phrases “used for”, “arranged for”, “designed for”, “intended
for”, “maintained for”, and “occupied for” shall be synonymous.
      (11)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
      (12)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections
within that section; but a reference to a particular subsection designates only
that subsection.
      (13)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
   (B)   Selected definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUTTING.  As applied to lots, ABUTTING means having a common lot line or
district line, or so located in relation to each other that there would be a
common lot line or district line but for the existence of a street, alley, or
other public right-of-way.
      ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, or other means for providing vehicular
access to an off-street parking or loading area from a street.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A detached subordinate building located on the same
building site with the main building, the use of which is incidental to that of
the main building.
      ACCESSORY USE.  Any structure or use that is:
         (a)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal use or structure
which it serves;
         (b)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served; and
         (c)   Located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served.
      ADDITION.  An increase of building area, aggregate floor area, height or
number of stories of a structure.
      ADJACENT.  Lying near, in the vicinity of, next to, adjoining.
      ADJOINING.  Touching or contiguous.
      ADVERTISING.  See SIGNS .
      AGRICULTURE.  Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse, and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
      AISLE.  A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used
as a means of access/egress from parking spaces.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
      ALTER.  To change the size, shape, or use of a structure.
      ALTERATION.  Any structural change in the supporting or load-bearing
members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
      AMENDMENT.  A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference), properly effected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
      ANCHOR.  Any approved device to which a mobile or manufactured home is
tied down to keep it firmly attached to the stand on which it is placed.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
care, observation or treatment of domestic animals.
      ANTENNA STRUCTURES.  Any antenna or parabolic/dish-type apparatus,
external to or attached to the exterior of a building or structure, capable of
receiving, for the benefit of the principal use, television or radio signals.
Satellite dishes are considered an accessory use.
      APARTMENT.  A room or suite of rooms used as a dwelling for one family
which does its cooking therein within a multiple family building.
      APPROVED.  Accepted by a City of Troy official or other authority having
jurisdiction.
      ASPHALT.  A mixture of petroleum by-products and gravel used for paving
to form an impermeable, all-weather and dustless surface.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Housing designed for senior citizens where some
assistance is provided with daily activities such as cooking or cleaning, but
not where skilled nursing care is provided consistently throughout the day.
      ATTACHED.  As applied to buildings, ATTACHED means having a common wall
and/or a common roof.
      AUDITORIUM.  A room, hall or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building or other building assigned to the gathering of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays and other presentations, as well
as participate in dances, dinners, expositions, bingos, and the like.
      AUTOMOBILE (MOTOR VEHICLE) SERVICE STATION.  Any building or premises
used for the dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail to the public,
automobile (motor vehicle) fuels stored only in underground tanks located
wholly within the lot lines; lubricating oil or grease for the operation of
automobiles; and the sale and installation of tires, batteries, and other minor
accessories, and minor automobile (motor vehicle) repair, but not including a
bulk plant, conduct of major motor vehicle repairs, motor vehicle wrecking,
motor vehicle sales, or motor vehicle laundries (car washes), however, that the
washing of individual’s motor vehicles where no chain conveyor is employed, may
be included.
      BAR AND/OR COCKTAIL LOUNGE.  Any premises wherein alcoholic beverages are
sold at retail for consumption on the premises and minors are excluded
therefrom by law. It shall not mean premises wherein such beverages are sold in
conjunction with the sale of food for consumption on the premises and the sale
of the beverages comprises less than 25% of the gross receipts.
      BASEMENT.  A story having one-half or more of its height below the
average level of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST.  An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast
and light snacks/refreshments may be provided to the guests only. Bed and
breakfast establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses or
food service establishments.
      BILLBOARD.  A sign advertising a commodity, business, service, or event
not available or conducted upon the premises where such sign is located or to
which it is affixed.
      BLOCK.  An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers,
or ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways, or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way) or
bounded by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-
of-way, waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
      BOARDING HOUSE.  A building or portion thereof-other than a hotel, motel,
or apartment hotel-containing lodging rooms for three or more persons who are
not members of the keeper’s family, and where lodging and/or meals are provided
by prearrangement and for definite periods.
      BUILDING.  Any covered structure intended for the shelter, housing, or
enclosure of persons, animals or personal property; the term building shall be
construed to include the term structure.
      BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finish grade at the front wall of the building to the
highest point of the roof.
      BUILDING LINE.  The line nearest the front of and across a lot,
delineating the minimum open space required between the front of a structure
and the street right-of-way line.
      BUILDING, ENCLOSED.  A building covered by a permanent roof and separated
on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed exterior
walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  A non-accessory building in which the principal use
of the premises is conducted.
      BULK.  Any one or any combination of the following:
         (a)   Size or height of structure;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets, or other structures;
         (c)   Yards or setbacks;
         (d)   Lot coverage.
      BUSINESS.  An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor and materials; or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold or
where services are offered.
      CAMPING TRAILER PARK.  A lot developed with facilities for accommodating
temporarily occupied camping trailers.
      CAMPING TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A mobile structure designed for
temporary occupancy.
      CANOPY.  An open-sided, roof-like structure, usually self-supporting and
detached, erected primarily to provide shelter from the weather.
      CAR DEALERSHIP. A retail business primarily housed in a structure and
characterized by a mixture of related uses upon a commercial site; however, the
principal use of the site shall be the marketing of new or used automobiles,
whether by sale, rent, lease, or other commercial or financial means.
      CAR WASH. A building or portion thereof containing facilities for washing
motor vehicles, providing space, water, equipment or soap for washing of motor
vehicles by the operator or customer. Production line methods using mechanical
devices are permitted.
      CARPORT.  A roof-like structure open on at least two sides, usually
formed by the extension of the roof from the side of the building, primarily
used to provide shelter for vehicles parked outdoors. CARPORTS  not open on at
least two side shall be considered a garage and shall comply with the
provisions set forth for garages.
      CATERING SERVICE OR ESTABLISHMENT.  To proved food and/or alcoholic
beverages for large dinners, banquets, and the like.
      CHILD CARE CENTER.  See NURSERY SCHOOL .
      CHURCH.  A building designed or used for regularly scheduled worship
services.
      CLINIC.  An establishment where licensed medical practitioners or
dentists practice medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick
or injured persons is not provided.
      CLOSED CONSTRUCTION.  Any building component, assembly or system
manufactured in such a manner that all portions cannot readily be inspected at
the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
      CLUB/LODGE.  A nonprofit association or persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
      CODE OFFICIAL.  The official appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council to administer this chapter, or his or her
representative.
      COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT.  Any use or establishment wherein goods
and/or services are purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail)
or to other businesses (wholesale).
      COMMUNITY RESIDENCE.  A group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with disabilities which is licensed, certified or
accredited by appropriate local, state or national bodies. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE
does not include a residence which serves persons as an alternative to
incarceration for a criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for
placement is substance or alcohol abuse or for treatment of communicable
disease.
      CONDOMINIUM.  A form of cooperative ownership which permits individual
ownership of a specific part of a building, with common ownership of all spaces
beyond the specific apartments that meets all required Illinois laws.
      CONFORMING.  In compliance with the applicable provisions of this
chapter.
      CONVALESCENT HOME.  A building used as a medical care facility for
persons who need non-permanent, short-term nursing care, medical service or
therapy, but do not require intensive hospital care.
      CONVENIENCE SHOP.  Any small retail commercial or service establishment
offering goods/services.
      CORNER LOT.  See LOT, CORNER .
      CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT). The characterization of the color
content, or spectrum ("warmness" or "coolness") of a light source measured in
Kelvin (K).
      CUTOFF LUMINAIRE. As classified by the Illuminating Engineering Society
of North America (IESNA), the luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above an
angle of 90 degrees above nadir does not numerically exceed 2.5% of the
luminous flux (in lumens) of the lamp or lamps in the luminaire, and the
luminous intensity (in candelas) at or above a vertical angle of 80 degrees
above nadir does not numerically exceed 10% of the luminous flux (in lumens) of
the lamp or lamps in the luminaire.
      DAY CARE CENTER.  See NURSERY SCHOOL .
      DECK.  An open porch which has no roof, is generally open on the sides,
is above ground level, and its intended use is for leisure enjoyment.
      DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME.  A mobile home which does not have toilet and bath
or shower facilities.
      DETACHED.  As applied to buildings, DETACHED means surrounded by yards on
the same lot as the building.
      DEVELOP.  To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a
tract of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefore.
      DEVELOPER.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, or other group or combination acting as a unit, and developing or
proposing to develop land within the corporate limits; may be synonymous with
“subdivider.” In the event that the developer or subdivider is not the record
owner, then both shall sign and be responsible for all submittals and the
performance thereunder.
      DISTRICT ZONING.  A portion of the territory of this municipality wherein
certain uniform requirements of various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots and uses under the terms of this chapter.
      DRIVEWAY.  A gravel or hard surfaced minor way commonly providing
vehicular access to a parking area, requiring a minimum width of twelve feet
and crushed stone with a minimum depth of four inches.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT OR REFRESHMENT STAND.  An establishment principally
used for the sale of fast order food for consumption off the premises or in
parked cars on the premises. Fast order food means food that is:
         (a)   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
         (b)   Available after a short waiting time; and
         (c)   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily
eaten outside the premises where it is sold.
      DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business that through design,
physical facilities, service, or packaging procedures accommodates customers by
providing products or services through a building window to a customer in a
vehicle, whether or not ordering is done on-site.
         (a)   DRIVE-THROUGH LANE. A lane measuring a minimum of nine feet wide
that is designed for vehicles queuing for drive-through service.
         (b)   ORDER POINT. A location outside of a building but still on the
premises where ordering a product or service is done without an occupant
leaving their motor vehicle.
         (c)   SERVICE WINDOW. A building opening, including windows, doors, or
mechanical devices, through which occupants of a motor vehicle receive or
obtain a product or service.
      See RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD .
      DUPLEX.  A dwelling which has accommodations for two families.
      DWELLING.  A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels, and
other accommodations for the transient public. Modular dwellings on permanent
foundations shall be treated in the same manner as conventionally constructed
dwellings (see definition for modular and permanent foundation).
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A building or portion thereof containing
three or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached dwelling containing one dwelling
unit and intended for the occupancy of one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by
one family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
      DWELLING UNIT AREA.  The sum of dwelling areas of several floors of a
building, excluding basements, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior
walls or from the center of the common walls of attached buildings.
      EASEMENT.  A right to use another person’s real property for certain
limited purposes.
      EMPLOYEE PARKING.  Parking spaces reserved especially for the businesses’
employees.
      ENLARGE.  To increase the size (floor area, height, and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
      ERECT.  To build or to construct.
      ESTABLISHMENT.  Either of the following:
         (a)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity
that is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
         (b)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity
that occupies a portion of a building such that:
            1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
            2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior
of the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined
entryway that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
      EXISTING.  Existing, constructed or in operation, on the effective date
of this chapter.
      EXTEND.  To increase the amount of floor area or land area devoted to an
existing use.
      FAMILY.  One person, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption; or up to four unrelated persons maintaining a common household
in a dwelling unit.
      FAST FOOD RESTAURANT.  See RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD .
      FREIGHT TERMINAL.  A building to which freight is brought by truck, air
or railroad freight cars for later distribution.
      FRONT FAÇADE. In the C-5 zoning district, FRONT FAÇADE refers to the
front of the building that directly faces any street.
      FRONTAGE.  The lineal extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
      GARAGE.  A structure designed and intended for the storage of motor
vehicles, whether free of charge or for compensation.
      GARAGE SALE.  The offer to sell, or sale to the public of new or used
merchandise conducted on premises where applicable zoning restrictions do not
allow such sales as a permitted use.
      GOVERNMENT.  The act or process of administering public policy in a
political unit; a political jurisdiction, the office or function thereof.
      HOME OCCUPATION.  An accessory use of a dwelling unit for a business,
profession or occupation conducted for revenue purposes. A HOME OCCUPATION is
incidental to the primary use of the building as a residence and is practiced
by a member of the family residing on the premises.
      HOME OCCUPATION CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.  A permit issued by the City
Council only after a public hearing by the Planning Commission as required in
this section involving or relating to an occupation other than those listed in
§
154.049.
      HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT.  A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator for
a home occupation that is authorized by the Home Occupation section without
hearing.
      HOSPITAL.  Any institution providing health services, primarily for in-
patients, emergency medical care, and surgical care of the sick or injured.
      HOSPITAL, REHABILITATION CENTER or SANITARIUM. An institution devoted
primarily to the maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis,
treatment, or care for not less than 24 hours in any day, of three or more
nonrelated individuals suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or
other abnormal physical conditions.
      HOTEL.  An establishment containing lodging accommodations exclusively
designed for use by travelers or temporary guests; permanent residents are not
allowed. Facilities provided may include a general kitchen, maid service, desk
service, meeting rooms, restaurants, cocktail lounges, and similar ancillary
uses, but not cooking facilities in guest rooms.
      IMMOBILIZE.  As applied to a manufactured (mobile) home, means to remove
the wheels, tongue and hitch and place on a permanent foundation.
      IMMOBILIZED-MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME DWELLING.  An immobilized-
manufactured (mobile) home structure that is of particular design to permit the
exclusive use and occupancy thereof as living quarters for one family.
      IMMOBILIZED-MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME OR IMMOBILIZED-HOME STRUCTURE.  A
manufactured (mobile) home transferred to that which is “real property”,
distinguished from that which is “personal property”, by virtue of causing the
structure to rest in whole on a permanent foundation. Having been designed and
constructed as a manufactured (mobile) home, the lack of mobility, for
whatsoever cause, does not render the structure not a manufactured (mobile)
home. Mobility or portability is germane, that is, when portability is removed
from a manufactured (mobile) home by causing it to rest in whole on a permanent
foundation, it remains a manufactured (mobile) home. The transformation brought
about by the act of causing the manufactured (mobile) home to rest in whole on
a permanent foundation is the act to transform the manufactured (mobile) home
from that which is personal property to that which is real property.
      INDEPENDENT LIVING FACILITY. Housing designed for senior citizens who
live independently and where some support services (such as medical, personal,
financial, and the like) are provided on-site and where meals may be provided
in a common dining room. Support services are generally accessed independently
by residents, are not provided typically for regular use, and are not used to
the extent of assisted or skilled care facilities.
      INTENSIFY.  To increase the level or degree of.
      INTERSECTION.  The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      JUNK YARD.  An open area of land or an accessory structure that is used
for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing, disassembling, or
handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials include vehicles,
machinery, and equipment not in operable condition or parts thereof, and
metals, glass, paper, plastic, rags, and rubber tires. A lot on which three or
more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a junkyard. A JUNKYARD
includes an automobile wrecking yard but excludes similar uses taking place
entirely within a completely enclosed building.
      KENNEL.  Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than
three dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals, over four months of age,
are kept or on which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred,
or cared for in return for remuneration or are kept for purpose of sale.
      LABORATORY (RESEARCH).  A building or group of buildings in which are
located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or
experimentation, but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products,
except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory.
      LANDSCAPING SERVICE.  A service that professionally arranges or improves
sections of ground by contouring the land and planting flowers, trees or
shrubs. This does not include tracts of land used for raising and transplanting
these items for sale. See NURSERY .
      LOADING SPACE.  The temporary parking space of a commercial vehicle
generally required for loading and unloading merchandise, materials or goods
that directly service the consumer.
      LOT.  A tract of land used or developed as a unit, under single ownership
or under single control. A LOT may or may not coincide with a “lot of record”.
      LOT AREA.  The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a
duly recorded lake or river.
      LOT, CORNER.  A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for
their full length upon any public right-of-way. Both such side lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
      LOT COVERAGE.  The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
      LOT COVERAGE, MAXIMUM.  The maximum percentage of lot that can be
occupied by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings or
structures.
      LOT DEPTH.  The average horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the rear lot line of a lot.
         (a)   LOT LINE, FRONT.  Any lot boundary abutting any public right-of-
way.
         (b)   LOT LINE, REAR.  An interior lot line which is most distant from
and most nearly parallel to the front lot line. The REAR LOT LINE on corner
lots shall be defined as the line most distant and most nearly parallel to
either of the front lot lines as defined elsewhere in these definitions.
         (c)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot
line or a rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD.  An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded or registered with the Recorder of Deeds of Madison
County, Illinois, in accordance with state law.
      LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT.  Refers to the lot area, width, and depth
requirements of the applicable district.
      LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE.  A relaxation of the strict application of the
lot size and/or bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
A LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE is associated with the property.
      LOT, THROUGH.  A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
      LOT WIDTH.  The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles
to the side lot lines at the building line.
      MAINTENANCE.  The routine upkeep of a structure, premises, or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep a structure in sound condition.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.  A traffic way with at least two lanes in each
direction. It may or may not be a freeway, arterial street, secondary arterial
street or collector street.
      MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or
40 body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square
feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and include the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
systems. All MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES constructed after June 15, 1976 must
comply with the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards
Act of 1974. These standards apply uniformly across the country. Compliance
with this standard is indicated by a red metal label permanently affixed to the
rear of each towable unit.
      MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME OR MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME STRUCTURE.  A
moveable or portable vehicular structure designed and constructed for permanent
occupancy, having plumbing, electrical and mechanical systems, and so designed
and constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or
permanently attached to its own chassis, from the place of its construction to
the location or subsequent locations at which it is intended to be occupied,
connected to utilities, for year round occupancy, and having no need for a
permanent foundation. (A manufactured (mobile) home resting in whole on a
permanent foundation shall be construed as an “immobilized manufactured
(mobile) home”). The term shall include:
         (a)   Structures containing parts that may be folded, collapsed or
telescoped when being towed and that may be expanded to provide additional
cubic capacity; and
         (b)   Structures composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral structure capable of being separated
again into the component parts for repeated towing.
         Modular buildings or modular building structures are not MANUFACTURED
(MOBILE) HOMES OR MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME STRUCTURES . The term shall
include units designed to be used for dwelling, business, educational or
industrial uses.
      MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME PARK.  A tract of land or two or more
contiguous tracts of land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities
for two or more independent manufactured (mobile) homes for permanent
habitation either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as part of
the equipment of such manufactured (mobile) home park. Separate ownership of
contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts of land from common
licensure as a MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME PARK if they are maintained and
operated jointly.
      MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME STAND.  The part of a manufactured (mobile)
home space beneath the manufactured (mobile) home that may include the concrete
slab, runners or rock, piers, and plastic on which the home is anchored to.
      MEETING ROOM.  All structures which are designed or occupied for the
gathering together of persons for the purposes such as civic, social, or
religious functions.
      MINI-WAREHOUSES.  A building, or part of one, for the storage of goods,
merchandise, and the like for rent to individuals for a monthly fee.
      MINOR’S MISCELLANEOUS SEASONAL WORK.  Work performed by a person under
the age of 18 on a part-time basis that is seasonal in nature such as lawn
mowing and snow removal.
      MODULAR BUILDING OR MODULAR BUILDING STRUCTURE.  A building assembly or
system of building sub-assemblies, designed for habitations as a dwelling for
one or more persons, including the necessary electrical, plumbing, heating,
ventilating and other service systems, which is of closed or open construction
and which is made or assembled by a manufacturer, on or off the building site,
for installation, or assembly and installation, on the building site, with a
permanent foundation. These types of units may be either panelized (floor, wall
and roof panels are assembled at the final site) or sectional (the home is
shipped as a box-like configuration.) The state-approved manufactured housing
unit must comply with the currently adopted One and Two Family Dwelling Code,
the currently adopted Illinois State Plumbing Code, and the currently adopted
National Electric Code. All approved modular homes will have a yellow seal on
the electric panel box of the home or on the inside of the kitchen sink
cabinet. And unlike manufactured (mobile) homes, the City of Troy may require
additional items other than the minimum state requirements to be incorporated
into the construction.
      MOTEL.  Lodging for motorists, usually with blocks of rooms opening
directly onto a parking area; permanent residents are not allowed. Also called
a motor court.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, tractor,
tractor trailer, trailer or semi-trailer propelled or drawn by mechanical
power.
      MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR.  The general repair, engine rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles, collision service, such as body, frame and
fender straightening and repair, and painting of motor vehicles.
      MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR.  Incidental repairs, replacement of parts
and motor service of any motor vehicles but excluding any operation specified
under “Motor Vehicle Repair, Major.”
      MOTOR VEHICLE SERVICE STATION.  See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION .
      NIGHTCLUB.  A bar, restaurant, coffee house, or similar establishment
where a dance floor or entertainment is provided.
      NON-CONFORMING.  As applied to a lot, structure, or use, means:
         (a)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
         (b)   Not in compliance with the applicable provisions thereof.
      NUISANCE.  Any thing, condition, or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
      NURSERY.  A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are
raised for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which the
activities are conducted.
      NURSERY SCHOOL.  An establishment for the part-time care and/or
instruction (at any time of day) of four or more unrelated children of
predominately pre-elementary school age.
      NURSING HOME.  A building used as a medical care facility for persons who
need long-term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
      OCCUPANCY.  The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is used.
      OCCUPIED LAND AREA (for computing off-street parking and loading space
requirements).   That area of a lot occupied by all buildings, structures and
accessory uses which in combination encompass the operation of the principal
use. OCCUPIED LAND AREA is normally used in computing required parking for uses
that typically are not completely enclosed. Examples are vehicle sales lots and
outdoor recreational facilities. Any parcel of land that is considered occupied
space shall be improved to the discretion of the Zoning Official.
      OFFICE.  Any building, or portion thereof, in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
      OFF-STREET PARKING AREA.  Land that is improved and used primarily for
outdoor storage of any vehicle that has an axle and wheels, for free of charge
or compensation. This includes, but is not limited to, passenger motor
vehicles, trucks, campers, boats, motor homes, mobile homes, and recreational
vehicles both on road and off-road. An OFF-STREET PARKING AREA , depending on
the circumstances of its use, may either be a principal or accessory use.
      OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE.  An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet
wide within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
      OPEN CONSTRUCTION.  Any building component, assembly or system
manufactured in such a manner that all portions can be readily inspected at the
installation side without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
      OPEN SPACE.  Any land developed as yards, parks, recreation areas,
including community centers, and landscaped green areas, exclusive to area
developed for off-street parking.
      OWNER.  Any individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
having possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession in land, buildings
or possessions.
      PARCEL.  Contiguous land in one ownership.
      PARK.  Land used for active or passive recreation, owned or controlled by
a park district, school district, county district, homeowner’s association, or
other city or governmental entity or non-profit organization.
      PARKING LOT.  See OFF-STREET PARKING AREA .
      PATIO.  An at-grade paved area without any walls usually adjacent to a
building, and which is intended to be used as an outdoor lounging, dining, or
entertaining area.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION.  A below grade formation, or a substructure
formation below the tier of beams nearest to grade, consisting of materials
such as concrete, mortared concrete block or mortared brick, used to transmit
the loads of a structure to firm substrata, which formation shall include, but
not necessarily be limited to, cellars, basements, crawl spaces, floating
concrete mats with frost walls, piers and/or pilings extending into the ground
below the frost line or to solid rock.
      PERMANENT HABITATION.  A period of 30 or more consecutive days.
      PERMANENT RESIDENT.  The term permanent resident shall include any person
who occupies any home, apartment, room or rooms in a motel/hotel, or any other
dwelling unit for at least 30 consecutive days.
      PERMITTED USES.  Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s), provided it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to the district(s).
      PERSON.  An individual, firm, association, organization, or corporate
body.
      PLAN.  The geographical and topographical maps, engineering and
architectural drawings and specifications, and other information indicating the
location and nature of a development.
      PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.  A residential or commercial development on a parcel
of land in single ownership and consisting of two or more buildings having any
yard, court, parking or loading space in common.
      PORCH.  A structure attached to a building to shelter an entrance or to
serve as a semi-enclosed space, usually covered with a roof, generally open-
sided, and usually large enough to allow seating devices.
      PORTABLE BUILDING.  A moveable structure which is not permanently affixed
to a permanent foundation.
      PREFABRICATED BUILDING or PREFABRICATED BUILDING STRUCTURE.  A completely
assembled and erected building designed and constructed for permanent
occupancy, of which fifty percent or greater of the structural parts consist of
individual prefabricated structural units (such as a beam, girder, plank,
strut, column, or truss) and prefabricated building subassemblies (such as an
assembled section of a wall, ceiling, floor, or roof, which may be of closed or
open construction) that are transported from the place of manufacture to the
building site to be incorporated into the building by field erection of such
structural units and building subassemblies, having need of a perimeter
formation permanent foundation. The term shall include buildings designed and
intended to be used for dwelling, business, educational, or industrial use
occupancy.
      PREFABRICATED MODULE.  A built up combination of prefabricated building
subassemblies (consisting of at least the floor, walls, and ceiling)
constructed and arranged forming an attachable cell or set of rooms which is of
closed construction, designed and intended to be transported without need of
its own chassis from the place of its manufacture to the building site where it
is to be arranged and united with one or more other such cells or units of
rooms forming a modular building.
      PREMISES.  A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE.  The main structure erected on or the
main use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate)
structure or use.
      PRIVATE STREET.  Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to a unit of government.
      PUBLIC WAY.  Any sidewalk, street, alley, highway or other public
thoroughfare.
      RECONSTRUCT.  As applied to nonconforming structures, means to rebuild
after partial destruction.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  See CAMPING TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE .
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK.  See CAMPING TRAILER PARK .
      REFUSE.  Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
      RELOCATE.  To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
      REPAIR.  To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
      RESTAURANT.  A business where the dispensing of edible foods and/or
beverages on the premises is the principal business operation; including a
cafeteria, coffee shop, lunch room, tea room, and dining room, but not
including a drive-in or fast food restaurant.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN.  A restaurant that dispenses foods and/or beverages
to persons in parked or stopped motor vehicles.
      RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD.  A restaurant whose principal business is the
dispensing of edible foods and/or beverages in disposable containers to be
eaten on the premises or taken out. This type of restaurant is usually self-
service and may include a drive-thru service window.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. A business engaged in the sale of any product or
merchandise to customers for their own personal consumption or use, not for
resale.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC.  A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
      SANITARY LANDFILL.  A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal
of refuse in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
      SCHOOL.  A public or private institution which offers instruction in any
of the branches of learning and study comparable to that taught in the public
schools under the Illinois school laws, including pre-kindergartens, elementary
schools, junior and senior high schools, including trade, business, or
commercial schools.
      SERVICE STATION.  See AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION .
      SETBACK.  The distance between the front lot line and the building line;
or between a side or rear lot line and the side of the structure which faces
such lot line; or between the appropriate lot line and the nearest boundary of
the area of operation which is approximately parallel to such lot line.
      SIGN.  Any fabricated sign or outdoor display structure, including its
structure, consisting of any letter character, mark, point, plane, marquee
sign, design, poster, pictorial, picture, stroke, stripe, line, trademark,
reading matter, or illuminating devise, which constructed, attached, erected,
fastened or manufactured in any manner so that the same shall be used for the
attraction of the public to any place, subject, person, firm, corporation,
public performance, article, machine or merchandise, and displayed in any
manner out of doors for recognized advertising purposes.
      SKILLED CARE FACILITY. Housing designed for senior citizens where medical
professionals provide consistent care on a 24-hour basis. A SKILLED CARE
FACILITY includes facilities commonly known as memory care but does not include
assisted living facilities.
      SKIRTING.  The cover affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
      SPECIAL USE.  A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other
characteristic which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES  commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit. A
special use permit shall not be transferable.
      SPECIAL USE PERMIT.  A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this code to regulate development of a special use.
      STABLE.  A structure, situated on the same lot as a dwelling, and
designed or used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the
dwelling, but not for hire.
      STOOP.  A small porch which is usually not covered with a roof and which
is primarily used to provide access to the adjoining building.
      STOP WORK ORDER.  A type of corrective action order used by the zoning
administrator or his designee to halt work in progress that is in violation of
this chapter.
      STORAGE BUILDING.  A structure designed to keep or store goods and
equipment. The building is not designed for occupancy by families or
individuals.
      STORAGE, OUTDOOR.  The outdoor accumulation of vehicles, equipment or
products, or materials for permanent or temporary holding.
      STOREFRONT. In the C-5 zoning district, STOREFRONT refers to the front of
a building that serves as a main entrance and directly faces the parking area.
      STORY, ABOVE GRADE.  Any story having its finished floor surface entirely
above grade.
      STREET.  A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term
STREET includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, through way, road, pike,
avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but
excludes an alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
      STREET LINE.  The street right-of-way line abutting a lot line.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES ,
but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
      STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY.  Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
      SUBDIVIDER . See DEVELOPER .
      SUBDIVISION.  Any division of land into two or more lots, except as
provided otherwise in the list of exceptions set forth in the Plan Act (ILCS
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 1). The term SUBDIVISION  includes resubdivision.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR.  A division of land into two but not more than four
lots, all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new
streets, other rights-of-way, easements, improvements or other provisions for
public areas and facilities.
      SWIMMING POOL.  Any structure that contains water two feet or greater in
depth. This includes in-ground, above ground and on-ground swimming pools, hot
tubs and spas.
      TAVERN.  An establishment serving alcoholic beverages in which the
principal business is the sale of such beverages at retail for consumption on
the premises and where sandwiches and snacks may be available for consumption
on the premises.
      TEMPORARY USE PERMIT.  A permit issued in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and valid for not more than one year, plus the optional
extension period of one year, which allows the erection/occupation of a
temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
      TOPOGRAPHY.  The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
      TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power used or adaptable for living,
sleeping, business or storage purposes, having no foundation other than wheels,
blocks, skids, jacks, or skirting, and has been equipped with wheels or other
devices for transporting the structure from place to place. A permanent
foundation shall not change its character.
      USE.  The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
      UTILITY SUBSTATION.  A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant, and the like.
      VARIANCE.  See LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE .
      VIDEO GAMING CAFÉ or PARLOR. A business, deriving more than 50% of their
income from video gaming, where the primary or a major focus is video gaming
and the sale of or service of alcohol and food is secondary. Video gaming
establishments must comply with the provisions of the Video Gaming Act (ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.) and all rules, regulations, and restrictions
imposed by the State Gaming Board.
      WAREHOUSE.  A place in which goods or merchandise are stored.
      WHOLESALE.  Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
      YARD.  Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted
in this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
      YARD, FRONT.  A yard which is bounded by the front lot line and the
building line.
      YARD LINE.  A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which
the applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any
point than the required depth or width of the yard.
      YARD, REAR.  A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines,
and the rear yard line.
      YARD, SIDE.  A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line, and side lot line.
      ZONING MAP.  The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts. The ZONING MAP is incorporated into this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-
2023; Ord. 2024-56, passed 9-16-2024)
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 154.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS AND ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In order to implement this chapter, and to achieve the objectives in
§§
154.001 through
154.004, the entire municipality is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
District Designation
District                  Designation
Agricultural Reserve      A-R
Single-Family Residential R-1
Single-Family Residential R-1A
Single-Family Residential R-1E
Two-Family Residential    R-2
Multi-Family Residential  R-3
Manufactured Home         M-H
Neighborhood Commercial   C-1
General Commercial        C-2
Highway Commercial        C-3
Downtown Mixed-use        C-4
Town Center Mixed-use     C-5
Planned Developments      PD-B and PD-R
Light Industry            I-1
General Industry          I-2
 
   (B)   Agricultural Reserve - A-R Zoning District. 
      (1)   The A-R district is intended to protect predominately agricultural
land from intense and disorderly development. Territory located on the
periphery of the corporate limits is generally agricultural/undeveloped or
sparsely developed. As such areas are annexed to the city it is the intent of
this district to preserve and maintain the present land uses until such time
that proper infrastructure can be extended to adequately serve such property to
accommodate orderly development.
      (2)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032. Land uses in an A-R zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
   (C)   Single-Family Residential - R-1 Zoning District. The R-1 district is
intended to provide low-density residential development, including those uses
that reinforce residential neighborhoods, and to allow certain public
facilities.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: Refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an R-1 zoning district: single family dwellings and
related accessory uses are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and
special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (3)   Off street parking requirements: refer to §
154.081.
   (D)   Single-Family Residential - R-1A Zoning District. The R-1A low density
zoning district is established to stabilize and conserve existing neighborhoods
that predominately consist of single family dwellings. This district is also
intended to promote the development of comparable new areas in order to
accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential development. This
district is also intended to be used as a buffer between single family
dwellings and different uses/districts such as commercial/industrial uses or
multi-family uses. It shall be at the discretion of the Planning Commission and
the City Council as to where these R-1A districts will be permitted.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an R-1A zoning district: single family dwellings and
related accessory uses are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and
special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (3)   Off street parking requirements: refer to §
154.081.
   (E)   Single-Family Residential - R-1E Zoning District. The R-1E low density
zoning district is intended to allow for development of single-family dwellings
and related facilities on lots two acres and larger. This district will
preserve the community character of the area with well-buffered, well-
landscaped neighborhoods, while allowing for other residentially-related uses
such as churches, parks and recreational areas, conservation areas, and schools
which are compatible with the character of the district. The intention of this
zoning district is to allow a more economically feasible development of larger
lot subdivisions by reducing the need for stormwater management infrastructure
as well as reducing the requirements for roads and sidewalks within the
development due to the decrease in population density of these areas. The
keeping of chickens is permitted; refer to §
90.06 of the Code of Ordinances.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an R-1E zoning district: single-family dwellings and
related accessory uses are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and
special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (3)   Off street parking requirements: refer to §
154.081.
   (F)   Two-Family Residential - R-2 Zoning District. The R-2 medium density
zoning district is established to stabilize and conserve existing neighborhoods
that predominately consist of single family dwellings. This district is also
intended to promote the development of comparable new areas in order to
accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential development. This
district is also intended to be used as a buffer between single family
dwellings and different uses/districts such as commercial/industrial uses or
multi-family uses.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an R-2 zoning district: attached single family
dwellings (villas, duplexes and uniplexes) and related accessory uses are
permitted. For a general listing of permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (3)   Off street parking requirements: refer to §
154.081.
   (G)   Multi-Family Residential - R-3 Zoning District. The R-3 zoning
district is established to provide high density residential developments
consisting of attached single-family dwellings over two units (multi-family
dwellings), apartments, condominiums, and town homes. However, multi-family
development within the city shall not permit temporary housing or facilitate,
arrange, offer or provide the services and amenities that are typically
associated with a traditional hotel or other related business. It shall be at
the discretion of the Planning Commission and the city council as to where
these R-3 districts will be permitted.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an R-3 zoning district: multi family dwellings and
related accessory uses are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and
special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (3)   Off street parking requirements: Refer to §
154.081.
   (H)   Manufactured Home - M-H Zoning District.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Land uses in an M-H zoning district: single family dwellings and
related accessory uses are permitted. For a general listing of permitted and
special uses, refer to §
154.033.
   (I)   Neighborhood Commercial - C-1 Zoning District. The C-1 business
district is primarily intended to accommodate low intensity retail, office, and
personal service uses adjacent to residential areas within the City of Troy and
the 1.5 mile planning radius outside the city limits. The district is
established to provide convenient locations for businesses that generally serve
the needs of surrounding residents and the immediate community without
disrupting the character of the neighborhood in which the use is located. It is
not intended to accommodate retail uses that primarily attract passing
motorists. Compatibility with nearby residences is paramount and should be
reflected in the design and site layout of buildings and structures within the
district. The uses in the C-1 district should constitute an integral part of
the neighborhood in which they are located and should be a low impact usage.
      (1)   All new uses or changes in use in the C-1 zoning district shall
require a site plan review.
      (2)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (3)   Illumination: illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential
uses, lots, and streets.
      (4)   Land uses in a C-1 zoning district.
         (a)   Permitted uses: provided all the use restrictions of this
district are observed, the following uses are permitted:
            1.   Animal groomers;
            2.   Art galleries, libraries, and museums;
            3.   Banks, financial institutions (excluding stand-alone ATMs),
post offices, government office uses, and other similar uses;
            4.   Fitness centers, gyms, and health clubs;
            5.   Offices - public, professional or service (no overnight
company vehicle parking);
            6.   Personal care - barber shops, beauty or nail salons, and spas;
            7.   Restaurants - sit-down restaurants with or without liquor
licenses.
         (b)   Special uses: provided all the use restrictions of this district
are observed, the following uses may be allowed by special use permit:
            1.   Accessory structures - as part of an approved site plan and in
compliance with §
154.031;
            2.   Arcades, pool halls, and similar amusements;
            3.   Bars and taverns;
            4.   Daycare centers, nursery and preschools, and similar uses;
            5.   Dry cleaners and laundromats;
            6.   Medical and dental offices, clinics, urgent care offices (no
24-hour facilities);
            7.   Residential dwelling units located above street level;
            8.   Restaurants - carry-out;
            9.   Retail establishments;
            10.   Schools - business or commercial;
            11.   Studios - art, dance, music and similar instructional uses.
         (c)   Conditions of use: all uses and structures in this district
shall be subject to the following requirements:
            1.   Dwelling units are not permitted on the ground floor.
            2.   Drive-through lanes: permitted as an accessory use for banks
or financial institutions; permitted in instances where ordering is done
remotely and there is no on-site order point.
            3.   All drive-through establishments shall provide adequate
screeening, buffering and/or sound abatement to minimize excessive noise and
spillover light. Noise levels shall be 1.5 decibels or less at all property
lines.
            4.   Retail establishments are prohibited from selling age-
restricted products in C-1.
            5.   Video gaming cafes or parlors as defined in §
154.005 are prohibited in C-1. Video gaming machines as an accessory use shall
not be visible from the street or located in the front of the premises.
            6.   Manufacturing prohibited: no manufacturing or processing of
material shall occur in the C-1 zoning district for off-premises consumption or
use. Only incidental processing may occur on a zoning lot in the C-1 zoning
district.
            7.   Outside building or storage: not permitted in C-1.
            8.   Restricted business hours: businesses in this district may be
open to the public or receive deliveries from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Sunday
through Thursday and from 6:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
      (5)   Additional parking requirements: in addition to off-street parking
and loading requirements in §§
154.080 -
154.090, the following parking regulations shall apply in C-1:
         (a)   Cross-access between adjacent lots: where parking lots for
separate uses are adjacent to one another and the opportunity for connected
cross-access exists, such access is encouraged and may be required when
feasible. Cross-access should be done in a logical manner that results in a
safe and efficient circulation between adjacent parking areas and is subject to
plan approval.
         (b)   Mixed-use developments: parking for residential dwelling units
is encouraged to be in the rear of the development and may be required when
feasible.
      (6)   Signage: signs must be attached to the building. Maximum size of
signage is 1/100th (1%) of the plan building area, but in no case shall this
area be greater than 15 square feet. Sign lighting must be off during hours
when business is closed. Illumination of graphics is permitted, subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Neon lighting is prohibited.
         (b)   No graphic shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights
which have a changing light intensity, brightness, or color. Beacon lights are
prohibited.
         (c)   The illumination area shall be included in graphic areas
allowances.
         (d)   The light from any illuminated graphic shall be shaded, shielded
or directed so as to avoid a nuisance to persons on adjacent property or create
a traffic hazard.
         (e)   No exposed reflective-type bulb and no strobe light or
incandescent lamp which exceeds 15 watts or equivalent shall be used in the
exterior surface of any graphic in such a manner as to expose the face of the
bulb, light, or lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
         (f)   Movement prohibited: no graphic which revolves, rotates, or
mechanically moves in any manner shall be permitted.
         (g)   Electronic message center signs (EMCS) are prohibited.
      (7)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the C-1 zoning district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. Each building shall have its own centrally located
disposal area, regardless of the number of tenants in the building. All such
facilities shall be appropriately screened from adjoining properties and in a
manner that is compatible with the building site design for the zoning lot. Any
such outdoor trash or disposal system must be maintained to avoid the existence
of litter or the dispersal of trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot.
The accumulation of litter or trash is not permitted.
      (8)   Utilities: all utilities from the property line onto the property
will be installed underground. All utilities at the property line with building
frontage on any side will be installed underground regardless of their current
conditions. Local public utility facilities shall be adequately screened with
landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be placed
underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as to
blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area. All plans for
screening the facilities shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review. No building permit shall be issued until the Planning Commission has
approved the plans.
   (J)   General Commercial - C-2 Zoning District. The C-2 business district is
primarily intended to accommodate a wide range of retail, service, and office
use, but with a lesser intensity than the C-3 Highway Commercial District.
Within this district, it is the purpose of these regulations to facilitate the
establishment of conditions suitable for the operation of small businesses
catering to the public. The district is established to provide the local
community and to a lesser extent passing motorists with uses similar to those
found in the C-3 Highway Commercial but with an emphasis on smaller scale
operations. Typically, this district would be located along thoroughfares and
at the intersections of collector streets and arterial streets within the City
of Troy and the 1.5 mile planning radius outside the city limits. Compatibility
with nearby residences and businesses is paramount and should be reflected in
the design and site layout of buildings and structures within the district. The
uses in the C-2 district should constitute an integral part of the surrounding
area in which they are located and should be a medium impact usage.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Drive thru lanes: are permitted in C-2 with a maximum of five
lanes.
      (3)   Illumination: Illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential,
commercial uses or lots.
      (4)   Land uses in a C-2 zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (5)   Manufacturing: manufacturing or processing of goods, foods, or
service materials that occur in the C-2 zoning district for consumption or use
by the local general public is permitted. Manufacturing of large scale goods to
be used in a regional or national area is prohibited in the C-2 zoning
district.
      (6)   Outside building or storage: no outside storage permitted without
privacy screening installed per §
154.061(B).
      (7)   Parking area requirements: refer to §
154.081.
      (8)   Signage: variable message boards must be dimmed from dusk to dawn.
Refer to
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations.
      (9)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the C-2 zoning district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. All such facilities shall be appropriately
screened from adjoining properties and in a manner that is compatible with the
building site design for the zoning lot. Any such outdoor trash or disposal
system must be maintained to avoid the existence of litter or the dispersal of
trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot. The accumulation of litter or
trash is not permitted.
      (10)   Utilities: All utilities within the developed property will be
installed underground. Public utility facilities shall be adequately screened
with landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be
placed underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as
to blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area.
   (K)   Highway Commercial - C-3 Zoning District. The C-3 business district is
primarily intended to accommodate a wide range of retail, service, office, and
other business uses located along major thoroughfares and state highways within
the City of Troy and the 1.5 mile planning radius outside the city limits. The
district is established to provide locations for uses and establishments that
cater extensively to passing motorists and require a fairly high degree of
visibility with good access. The district would also accommodate multiple
retail/service developments such as low rise shopping centers, office parks,
big box stores, and similar higher intensity uses. Compatibility with nearby
businesses is paramount and should be reflected in the design and site layout
of buildings and structures within the district. The uses in the C-3 district
should constitute an integral part of the surrounding area in which they are
located and should be a high impact usage.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Drive thru lanes: are permitted in C-3 with a maximum of five
lanes.
      (3)   Illumination: illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential,
commercial uses or lots.
      (4)   Land uses in a C-3 zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (5)   Manufacturing: manufacturing or processing of goods, food, or
service material that occur in the C-3 zoning district for consumption or use
by the local general public is permitted. Manufacturing of large scale goods to
be used in a regional or national area is prohibited in the C-3 zoning
district.
      (6)   Outside building or storage: no outside storage without privacy
screening installed per §
154.061(B).
      (7)   Parking area requirements: refer to §
154.081.
      (8)   Signage: variable message boards must be dimmed from dusk to dawn.
Refer to
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations.
      (9)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the C-3 zoning district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. All such facilities shall be appropriately
screened from adjoining properties and in a manner that is compatible with the
building site design for the zoning lot. Any such outdoor trash or disposal
system must be maintained to avoid the existence of litter or the dispersal of
trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot. The accumulation of litter or
trash is not permitted.
      (10)   Utilities: all utilities from the property line onto the property
will be installed underground. All utilities at the property line with building
frontage on any side will be installed underground regardless of their current
conditions. Local public utility facilities shall be adequately screened with
landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be placed
underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as to
blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area. All plans for
screening the facilities shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review. No building permit shall be issued until the Planning Commission has
approved the plans.
   (L)   Downtown Mixed-use - C-4 Zoning District. The C-4 commercial district
represents a transition area where residential and commercial uses are
integrated. The C-4 district aims to maintain and enhance the character of
existing neighborhoods, support existing business sites, and facilitate
redevelopment at a scale and intensity consistent with surrounding areas and
the Comprehensive Plan. Businesses' compatibility with the existing downtown
area is paramount and should be reflected in the design and site layout of
buildings and structures within the district. The uses in the C-4 district
should constitute an integral part of the surrounding area, promote the image
of a traditional downtown shopping and dining area, and encourage a gathering
place where walking and biking are key components. Mixed-use buildings
containing retail, service, and residential uses on the first floor, and
offices, services, or residences on the upper floors, shall be linked to and
complemented by commercial and residential development within the district and
nearby neighborhoods.
      (1)   (a)   All new buildings or building renovation projects in the C-
4 district will be evaluated on the plans submitted to the Building and Zoning
Department. The requirements for setbacks, parking, exterior finishes, and
other city code compliance shall be at the discretion of the Code Enforcement
Official and shall be based on the character of the existing adjacent
properties.
         (b)   At the request of the Code Enforcement Official, any plans shall
be brought to the Planning Commission for review and approval including
projects with multiple buildings or tenants, unique circumstances such as poor
visibility or irregularly shaped sites, or when a uniquely creative approach to
development or design is proposed.
      (2)   Illumination: illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential or
commercial uses or lots. Refer to §
154.081 for additional lighting requirements for off-street parking, loading
areas, and sidewalks.
      (3)   Land uses in a C-4 zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (4)   Manufacturing prohibited: no manufacturing or processing of
material shall occur in the C-4 zoning district for off-premises consumption or
use. Only incidental processing may occur on a zoning lot in the C-4 zoning
district.
      (5)   Outside building or storage: not permitted on commercial or mixed-
use lots.
      (6)   Signage: variable message boards must be dimmed from dusk to dawn.
Refer to
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations for additional requirements.
      (7)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the C-4 zoning district shall be located at the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. All such facilities shall be appropriately
screened from adjoining properties and in a manner that is compatible with the
building site design for the zoning lot. Any such outdoor trash or disposal
system must be maintained to avoid the existence of litter or the dispersal of
trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot. The accumulation of litter or
trash is not permitted. If the existing central business changes ownership or
the nature of the business changes, trash disposal areas are required to be
screened. Strictly single-family residential uses do not require any such
facilities.
      (8)   Utilities: all utilities from the property line onto the property
will be installed underground. All new utilities at the property line with
building frontage on any side will be installed underground regardless of their
current conditions. Local public utility facilities shall be adequately
screened with landscaping, fencing, or walls, or any combination thereof, or
shall be placed underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a
manner to blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area. All
plans for screening the facilities shall be submitted to city staff for review.
No building permit shall be issued until city staff has approved the plans.
   (M)   Town Center Mixed-use - C-5 zoning district.
      (1)   The C-5 district is established to permit and encourage the
development of a mixed-use neighborhood which will promote a strong sense of
place and reflect market demand. The district's primary objective is to create
a unique blending of human habitation and economic activity. The district
represents the city's commitment to residents' quality of life, sustainability,
and smart growth by adhering to the following principles:
         (a)   Citizen and community connection. Balance the needs of
residents, developers, civic leaders, and landowners by ensuring all
participate in ongoing planning and development of the district.
         (b)   Economic development. Generate a sustainable and resilient
economy for the C-5 district (in support of the entire city) through
regulations that achieve desired outcomes creatively and flexibly.
         (c)   Destination development. Allow greater design flexibility in
development to create a unique destination for the city. To further encourage
the sense of place design standards are established for character-forming
elements required for each new development. These elements encourage a cohesive
mix of interdependent uses, including leisure shopping and offices on the main
floor with similar uses and/or medium to high-density residential on the upper
floor(s).
         (d)   Development form. Promote compact, highly pedestrian in
character, and mixed-use neighborhoods with many activities of daily life
available within walking distance. The intensity of development should support
transit connections to existing and planned trails with visitors and residents
getting to and around the district easily on foot or bike. If driving to the
district, the goal is to park a vehicle once for multiple stops in the
district.
         (e)   Access management and connectivity. Provide amenities which are
conducive to attracting pedestrian activity rather than automotive access.
Parking facilities will be provided in the rear yard with no direct access to
or visibility from the front yard.
         (f)   Urban design. Reinforce community design that results in
interesting, human-scaled places. The success of the district depends on
compact development to support the scale and type of desired uses, as well as
the walkable urban form.
         (g)   Architectural character. Design new developments that respond to
the local traditions of residential and commercial architecture, resulting in
unique places that maintain Troy's character. Design elements create a level of
design quality and consistent character that is in keeping with the city's
Comprehensive Plan and community development practices and policies.
         (h)   Environmental design. Build mixed-use developments that are
compact, accessible to other areas, and support walkability. Incorporate
stormwater management systems that apply natural best management practices
(BMPs) to increase permeability and reduce the need for impermeable stormwater
management infrastructure.
      (2)   All plans submitted to the Building and Zoning Department for new
buildings, renovations, or changes in use in the C-5 district will be reviewed
and approved by the Planning Commission. The review will include compliance
with the requirements for setbacks, parking, exterior finishes, and other
applicable sections of the city code.
      (3)   Area and bulk regulations. Refer to §
154.032.
      (4)   Illumination. The illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled to prevent the direction of light onto adjoining residential and
commercial uses or lots.
      (5)   Land uses in a C-5 zoning district.
         (a)   Permitted uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this
district are observed, the following uses are permitted:
            1.   Amusement, entertainment, sporting, and similar indoor
establishments.
            2.   Bakeries, cafes, coffee houses, and restaurants without drive-
throughs.
            3.   Banks, financial institutions, post offices, government office
uses, and other similar uses.
            4.   Bars, lounges, taverns, and wineries without vineyards.
            5.   Daycare centers and preschools.
            6.   Fitness centers, gyms, and health clubs.
            7.   Mass transit facilities.
            8.   Medical and dental offices, clinics, urgent care offices.
            9.   Offices - public, professional, service, and similar office
uses.
            10.   Parks and similar outdoor recreation areas.
            11.   Personal care - barber shops, beauty or nail salons, spas.
            12.   Pet services (indoor) - boarding, daycare, grooming,
training, and veterinary care.
            13.   Places of assembly - auditoriums, art galleries, churches and
places of worship, meeting rooms, and other similar uses.
            14.   Residential dwelling uses located above street level.
            15.   Retail establishments.
            16.   Studios - art, dance, music, and similar instructional uses.
         (b)   Special uses. Provided all the use restrictions of this district
are observed, the following uses may be allowed by special use permit:
            1.   Accessory uses.
            2.   Assisted and independent living facilities, convalescent
homes, rehabilitation centers, and skilled care facilities.
            3.   ATMs - stand alone.
            4.   Automobile - car washes, minor repair service facilities.
            5.   Hotels and motels.
            6.   Planned developments.
            7.   Restaurants with drive-throughs, service windows, or outdoor
dining.
            8.   Schools - colleges, universities, technical, and trade
schools.
            9.   Schools - elementary and high school.
         (c)   Conditions of use.: All uses and structures in this district
shall be subject to the following requirements:
            1.   Dwelling units are not permitted on the ground floor.
            2.   Drive-through lanes are accepted in C-5 with a maximum of two
lanes.
            3.   All drive-through establishments shall provide adequate
screening, buffering, and sound abatement to minimize excessive noise and
spill-over light. Noise levels shall be 1.5 decibels or less at all property
lines or residential uses.
            4.   Manufacturing prohibited: no manufacturing or processing of
material shall occur in C-5 for off-premises consumption or use. Only
incidental processing may occur on a lot in the C-5 district.
            5.   Outside building or storage: not permitted in C-5.
            6.   Video gaming cafes or parlors as defined in §
154.005 are prohibited in C-5. Video gaming machines as an accessory use shall
not be located in the front of the premises or be visible from the exterior.
            7.   Outdoor dining is prohibited on the front facade or street
frontage side. Outdoor dining is allowed in the area by the restaurant entrance
or in an adjacent side yard, if available.
      (6)   Additional parking requirements. In addition to off-street parking
and loading requirements in §§
154.080 through
154.090, the following parking regulations shall apply in C-5:
         (a)   Cross-access easements and shared parking agreements shall be
provided as part of all off-street parking facilities.
         (b)   Blocks are to be designed around internal circulation to the
rear of the buildings.
         (c)   Parking between the principal building and the public right-of-
way is prohibited.
         (d)   Off-street parking shall not be accessed from a primary road.
         (e)   Parking is prohibited in the front facade.
         (f)   Parking may be allowed in a side yard for properties fronting on
a secondary street but may not represent more than 33% of block frontage.
         (g)   All off-street parking shall be designed with a marked and safe
path from the parking area to a building entrance or a sidewalk/path leading to
a building entrance.
         (h)   In a mixed-use development, the required number of "resident
only" parking spaces shall be provided and appropriately designated.
         (i)   Any off-street parking along, abutting, or visible from a
secondary street shall have a three-foot hedge or similar shrubbery border
providing a 100% screen along the secondary street.
      (7)   Signage. In addition to and superseding the sign requirements in
Chapter 155, Sign Regulations and in §
154.064, Planned Developments, the following sign regulations shall apply in C-
5:
         (a)   Sign lighting must be off when the business is closed.
         (b)   The light from any illuminated graphic shall be shaded,
shielded, or directed to avoid a nuisance to persons on the same or adjacent
property or create a traffic hazard.
         (c)   Flush-mounted graphics are allowed along the street frontage at
50% of the size of the storefront and are not included as part of the tenant's
overall allowable signage.
         (d)   Only monument and shopping/office center graphics are permitted
and shall match the architectural theme of the development. Other freestanding
graphics as noted in §
155.04(D) are prohibited.
         (e)   Sandwich board signs (or "A-frame" type signs) may be placed on
the sidewalk but shall not intrude into a four-foot pedestrian access route.
Sandwich board signs must be removed from the sidewalk at dusk until dawn.
         (f)   Electronic message center signs (EMCS) are prohibited.
         (g)   Video gaming signage or advertisements are prohibited.
         (h)   Sign walkers are prohibited.
      (8)   Trash disposal facilities. All outside trash or disposal facilities
within the C-5 district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot and the
building on the lot. Each building shall have its own centrally located
disposal area, regardless of the number of tenants. All such facilities shall
be appropriately screened from adjoining properties and in a manner that is
compatible with the building site design for the zoning lot. Any such outdoor
trash or disposal system must be maintained to avoid the existence of litter or
the dispersal of trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot. The
accumulation of litter or trash is not permitted.
      (9)   Utilities. All utilities from the property line onto the property
will be installed underground. All utilities at the property line with building
frontage on any side will be installed underground regardless of their current
conditions. Local public utility facilities shall be adequately screened with
landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be placed
underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner to blend with
and complement the character of the surrounding area. All facility screening
plans shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for review. No building
permit shall be issued until the Planning Commission has approved the plans.
      (10)   Development standards. Development in the C-5 district shall
conform to
Chapter 153, Subdivision Code unless otherwise amended by development standards
specific to the district and as listed below.
         (a)   Access management. To allow for more efficient traffic
circulation, access to property within the district shall be evaluated by the
function and characteristic of the street to which access is allowed not
relative to individual properties.
            1.   Regardless of the number of access connections, all adjacent
properties within the district shall develop alternative access and
interconnect to adjacent parcels so pedestrians and vehicles can circulate
between them without using the abutting public roadway.
            2.   Primary streets shall be those carrying more traffic, serving
as the main access to and through streets in the district, and typically have
an arterial or collector functional classification. Wide parkways with trees
and landscaping along the sides are encouraged. All other streets shall be
secondary streets, classified as collector or local, and should be boulevard-
style with trees and landscaping. Primary streets in this district shall
include U.S. Highway 40, Formosa Road, Spring Valley Road, Collinsville Road,
and the future extension of SrA Bradley Smith Boulevard. The Code Official may
designate other streets as primary streets based on the criteria listed in this
section and how the street will function. The City Engineer shall determine the
right-of-way and cross-section of all streets.
            3.   Primary streets.
               A.   No direct land access or driveways are provided to this
category of roadway.
               B.   Intersection spacing of primary city streets shall be a
minimum of one-quarter mile measured from center to center.
               C.   No secondary street connections shall be allowed to any
street with a principal arterial functional classification. The only street
with a principal arterial functional classification in this district is U.S.
Highway 40.
               D.   Secondary streets are permitted along streets with minor
arterial and collector functional classification following the spacing
requirements outlined in
Chapter 153, Subdivision Code.
               E.   Directional traffic on minor arteriaIs shall be separated
by a non-traversable median where pedestrians are present.
               F.   On-street parking is prohibited in this category of
roadway.
               G.   Crosswalks shall be provided at intersections.
               H.   Mid-block crosswalks are prohibited.
               I.   Sidewalks and trails shall be provided as described in
Chapter 153, Subdivision Code.
               J.   A "parkway" is an open highway landscaped with trees and
grass as required by the city.
            4.   Secondary streets.
               A.   Intersection spacing of secondary city streets shall be a
minimum of one-eighth mile measured from center to center.
               B.   Driveway spacing along secondary streets shall be a minimum
of 100 feet measured from center to center to any intersection or driveway
approach.
               C.   On-street parking is permitted in this category of roadway.
               D.   Crosswalks shall be provided at intersections.
               E.   Mid-block crosswalks are permissible at uncontrolled
locations where crossings are designed with pedestrian crash countermeasures
based on criteria established in published literature, best practices, and
national guidance.
               F.   Sidewalks and trails shall be provided as described in
division (M)(10)(a)5.E below.
               G.   A "boulevard" is a wide street, typically lined with trees
and landscaping or within a planted median as required by the city.
            5.   Sidewalks and trails.
               A.   Pedestrian access connections shall be made to any existing
bike trails and wide sidewalks adjacent to the property.
               B.   Bike trails and wide sidewalks shall be extended and
incorporated into the site design in locations provided by the city's
"Pedestrian Routes Plan."
               C.   A sidewalk with a minimum width of five feet shall be
provided along the front of properties throughout the district except where a
pedestrian facility is already provided by either an existing or proposed bike
trail or wide sidewalk.
               D.   All streets shall have the appropriate pedestrian facility
according to the City Standard "Typical Streets Details."
               E.   All sidewalks shall be planned to encourage pedestrian
circulation through the district.
               F.   Bike trails and wide sidewalks should be considered even
where not required by the "Pedestrian Routes Plan" or "Typical Streets Details"
if they further the circulation of bike trails in the city.
               G.   A development bonus may be granted if pedestrian facilities
are upgraded and provide a meaningful circulation path within the development.
            6.   Drive-throughs. Drive-through establishments are permitted.
            7.   Corner lots.
               A.   Principal structures on all corner lots shall be built to
the proper setback for streets on both street frontages.
               B.   Vision triangle shall be observed for all corner lots.
            8.   Building orientation.
               A.   The storefront of any principal structure shall be oriented
to the parking lot and lead directly to the public sidewalk.
               B.   A second entry to principal structures is permitted and
encouraged to provide access from parking areas.
               C.   In cases where a principal structure abuts more than one
street, and one of those streets is a primary street, the primary entrance of
any principal structure shall be oriented to the primary street.
               D.   Passageways between buildings are allowed to reach the
fronts of the buildings and must be at least ten feet wide but not more than 20
feet unless designated for outdoor dining or gathering spaces, in which case
permanent architectural features such as trellises, public art, or seating
areas are required to be incorporated into the area.
         (b)   Architectural features. In all cases, architectural features
shall contribute to an attractive, integrated environment consistent with the
intent of the C-5 district and the adjacent neighborhood or projects. Proposed
site plans not in compliance with this, or any other C-5 district development
standard, shall be subject to review before the Planning Commission.
            1.   Building façade. In addition to meeting building height,
setbacks, and exterior materials requirements, building design shall
incorporate patterns and materials that are visually interesting, particularly
at street level. This must be accomplished by using a combination of expression
lines and areas, and features of the façade that include changes in material,
color and/or relief. Once a development theme is established, the façade of
each building shall complement the overall theme.
            2.   Exterior features. The use of visually interesting features
such as awnings, signage, windows, and doors is required, particularly along
primary pedestrian routes. Such features are subject to review and approval by
the Department. At a minimum, all proposed applications shall adhere to the
following objectives:
               A.   Except as otherwise specified at a storefront, all walls
exposed to the public view from the street or parking areas, shall be
constructed of a mixture of architectural elements.
                  (i)   Materials permitted include masonry elements, imitation
wood siding, architectural precast panels, architectural metal panels, fiber
cement siding, exterior insulation finish systems (EIFS), or other materials
approved by the Planning Commission.
               B.   Walls on primary pedestrian routes and storefronts shall
emphasize clear glazing at the ground floor level.
               C.   Dark tinted glass is prohibited at the street level.
               D.   All external stairwells throughout the C-5 district shall
be covered in a finish that matches or complements the exterior finish of the
building.
            3.   Building height and build-to-line standards. Maximum building
height and build-to-line requirements are intended to ensure that structures
have consistent height, bulk, and mass relationship to one another. All
development shall conform to the height requirements in §
154.032, Area and Bulk Regulations.
               A.   Buildings along primary pedestrian corridors must abut the
build-to-line on the side of the building facing the street. Minor variations
may be approved by the Planning Commission to allow the articulation of
decorative features such as columns and pillars.
               B.   Eighty percent of the ground level uses in the district
shall be commercial, retail, entertainment, or similar uses. The 80% use
calculation shall be based on the linear street frontage of each building. The
remaining 20% shall be used as open space such as a plaza, courtyard, patio,
and the like.
               C.   Doorways, porticos, or other approved entryways shall occur
a minimum of every 50 feet of building facade that fronts a parking lot or
plaza area.
               D.   Outdoor dining areas and sidewalk cafes are strongly
encouraged.
               E.   Development within this district will typically be multi-
storied having ground floor offices or retail, with similar or residential uses
utilizing the upper floors.
               F.   Multi-story buildings shall be designed so that there is
distinct architectural differentiation between the ground floor and the floors
above. This can be achieved by differences in floor-to-ceiling heights, the use
of an expression line, a change in material or textures, or by an awning or
canopy between the first and upper stories.
            4.   Roofs and rooftops. Roofs and rooftops should be designed with
consideration given to appearance. The following objectives apply to all roofs
and rooftops:
               A.   Highly reflective materials or contrasting colors are
prohibited.
               B.   All roof-mounted equipment or other obtrusive features
shall be screened from view on all sides and from the top or painted to match
the roof or parapet.
               C.   An articulated roof line or cornice is to be designed as a
major feature at or near the top of all building walls.
               D.   Buildings shall have flat roofs, as viewed from the street.
Flat roofs shall be enclosed by parapets that screen rooftop equipment.
               E.   Rooftop occupation is allowed as approved by the Planning
Commission.
            5.   Exterior materials. The exterior materials standards are
intended to encourage creative expression. Exterior materials of all buildings
shall contribute to a cohesive physical environment and convey a sense of
timelessness. At a minimum, all proposed applications shall hold paramount the
following objectives.
               A.   Use masonry as a primary building material when it reflects
the architectural character of the surrounding area.
               B.   Locate architectural elements (such as windows, doors, and
roof lines) to express a rhythm of design and create visual continuity with
materials, proportions, and typologies that respect the design of existing
structures.
               C.   Indicate building heights, stories, and transitions between
buildings through distinct fenestration, vertical segments, and architectural
elements.
               D.   Create visual interest and variety through building details
such as moldings, awnings, rooflines, cornices, windowsills, or lintels.
               E.   Enhance building character at the pedestrian level through
pattern, landscape, scale, texture, color, and design detail of materials.
               F.   Make building entryways easily identifiable.
               G.   Use accent lighting as a design element and to increase
overall safety, but avoid light pollution.
               H.   Incorporate public art, where appropriate, in a manner
consistent with city sign regulations and other relevant ordinances.
               I.   Keep signage and awnings in character, size, and profile
along a street wall and complement the building's architecture.
               J.   Design all visible facades to reflect the materials and
design of the primary façade.
               K.   Avoid large expanses of undifferentiated blank surfaces.
               L.   Use sustainable, low maintenance, and long-lasting
materials that are locally available, renewable, and have a design life greater
than or equal to 30 years.
               M.   Encourage the use of a variety of materials, including
brick, stone, and imitation stone on all exterior surfaces. Other materials may
be used upon review by the Planning Commission.
               N.   The following exterior materials are not recommended:
                  (i)   Mirrored glass.
                  (ii)   Wood and asphalt shingles.
                  (iii)   Corrugated fiberglass.
                  (iv)   Exposed, unfinished tilt-up concrete.
                  (v)   Plastic laminate.
                  (vi)   Neon.
                  (vii)   Unfinished concrete masonry units (CMUs).
               O.   The following images portray desirable outcomes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2976.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2963.png]
 
            6.    Landscaping. Plant material enhances a property by creating
visual interest, highlighting architecture and site features, offering shade,
screening unattractive functions from public view, and providing buffers
between properties. The following standards apply to all landscaping:
               A.   Use landscape features to create visual interest, break up
the appearance of blank walls, and enliven unexciting building views.
               B.   Apply vegetation to soften views of and within parking lots
and other vehicle areas.
               C.   Complement landscaped areas with streetscape amenities
(awnings, bike racks, furniture, art, lighting, signs).
               D.   Employ an environmentally sustainable landscape palette in
support of stormwater management practices, as well as more efficient ongoing
maintenance.
               E.   Complement and be additive to landscape purpose,
applicability, and requirements defined in the city Code of Ordinances.
               F.   Use native vegetation for perimeter landscaping, foundation
landscaping, and parking islands to reduce maintenance costs and contribute to
environmental sustainability.
               G.   Incorporate decorative materials such as vegetation,
fencing, masonry, or decorative structures to screen vehicles, parking lots,
utilities, and other equipment from public view.
               H.   Install foundation landscaping around the front of
buildings that are set back from the front property line and alongside the
sides and rear of buildings when visible from the public right-of-way.
               I.   Use vegetation to highlight entrances to parking areas and
buildings without reducing visibility for pedestrians or drivers.
               J.   The following images portray desirable outcomes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2965.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2967.png]
 
         (c)    Green space.
            1.   All neighborhoods should have abundant public/open space
incorporated into all designs. Development designs permitted in C-5 will
require a greater need for public/open space. The dedication of areas for use
as public/open space must be incorporated as focal points in the overall
development scheme of each project, which is part of the larger neighborhood
fabric. Additionally, these areas shall be capable of providing a varied use of
active recreational opportunities and shall not negatively affect natural
environmental features.
            2.   Existing vegetation shall be preserved whenever possible.
Credits for preserving existing vegetation shall be given to developers to
offset impervious area coverage requirements as described in division (M)(10)
(d) below.
            3.   The creation of a civic green is encouraged throughout the C-
5 district. A CIVIC GREEN is an open space consisting of a lawn and informally
framed by trees and shrubs, typically furnished with paths, benches, and open
shelters. These spaces are intended for a moderate amount of foot traffic. The
civic green may be framed by abutting streets or structures. Credits for
including a civic green shall be given to developers to offset impervious area
coverage requirements and minimum parking requirements as described in division
(M)(10)(d) below.
         (d)   Development bonuses. To advance the goals of the Comprehensive
Plan and zoning regulations of the city, the Planning Commission may recommend,
and the City Council may approve development bonuses that include a reduction
in green space or parking requirements when certain practices that provide
public benefit are incorporated into the development.
            If development bonuses are requested under this section, the
applicant shall document all site amenities or improvements for the city's
review and consideration.
            1.   Parking space reduction. The maximum reduction in parking
spaces shall be limited to 25% of the spaces required for the specific use of
the property as provided in §§
154.080 through
154.090. The following list of incentives may be utilized to reach a parking
space reduction not to exceed 25%.
               A.   Pedestrian facility upgrades. Upgrades to pedestrian
facilities will be considered for a parking space reduction of up to 25%. Only
pedestrian facilities that exceed the requirements outlined in the development
standards section will be considered for a development bonus. Pedestrian
facility upgrades could include, but are not limited to:
                  (i)   Providing sidewalk width above the minimum required
width.
                  (ii)   Providing bike trails that increase the circulation of
bike traffic.
                  (iii)   Providing sidewalks and paths beyond the road
frontage that increase the circulation of pedestrian traffic.
                  (iv)   Providing increased access to public transportation
including:
                     a.   Adding a bus stop along an existing bus route.
                     b.   Adding a bus route to increase access to more areas.
                     c.   Providing amenities to create an accessible bus stop
in varied weather conditions.
                  (v)   Providing pedestrian amenities including:
                     a.   Pedestrian-scaled lighting that lights the pedestrian
path while considering the mature height of street trees and the tree canopy.
                     b.   Seating in the form of benches, seat walls, railings,
and movable chairs.
                     c.   Signage and information kiosks directing people to
major activity centers and amenities.
                     d.   Trash receptacles.
                     e.   Bike and scooter parking.
                     f.   Public art on buildings and in the streetscape.
                     g.   Shade with street trees, awnings, and canopies.
                  (vi)   Providing pedestrian-specific amenities to a civic
green including:
                     a.   Any of the items listed in division (M)(10)(d)1.A.(v)
above.
                     b.   Open shelters that encourage gatherings.
                  (vii)   The following images portray desirable outcomes:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2969.png]
 
            2.    The maximum increase in impervious areas shall be limited to
15% of the maximum impervious area. The following list of incentives may be
utilized to reach a development bonus not to exceed 15% or a total impervious
area of 85%.
               A.   Green space. The minimum green space requirement in C-
5 shall be 30%. Green space as described below will be considered for a density
bonus of up to 15%. Green space considerations include, but are not limited to:
                  (i)    Additional green space calculations could include the
bonus acreages offered for any special incentives outlined below.
                     a.    To promote the protection of woodlands, 125% of the
land area may be counted toward meeting green space requirements if the
woodlands are set aside and permanently protected as undeveloped space.
                     b.   To promote low-impact design and stormwater-related
best management practices (BMPs), 125% of the land area used for rain gardens,
bio-retention facilities, groundwater infiltration systems, and other approved
structural stormwater BMPs may be counted toward meeting green space
requirements when the areas are set aside as undeveloped space.
                     c.   To promote recreation, 125% of the land area used for
retention ponds may be counted toward meeting green space requirements when the
areas are set aside as undeveloped space, and the retention pond serves as
stormwater management with the addition of recreational amenities. Recreational
amenities include walking paths, providing adequate depth to support aquatic
life, stocking the pond with fish, adding docks or bridges, and similar items
to promote recreation.
                     d.   To promote the provision and protection of natural
preserves, 125% of the land area of natural preserves and created wetlands may
be counted toward meeting green space requirements if the natural preserves are
set aside and permanently protected as undeveloped space.
                     e.   One hundred twenty-five percent of the landscape area
may be counted toward the green space requirement if the development provides
landscaping in addition to the minimum landscape requirements. Landscape areas
in excess of 10% of the requirement shall be provided for bonus consideration.
                     f.   Two hundred percent of the land area included as a
civic green may be counted toward the green space requirement.
                     g.   One hundred fifty percent of the reserved land area
placed into a conservation easement with a legally incorporated land
conservation agency or donated for a city park may be counted toward green
space requirements.
                     h.   Two hundred percent of the land area dedicated to
establishing a woodland canopy and a tree preservation easement set aside and
permanently protected as undeveloped space may be counted toward green space
requirements. A plan shall be established by an arborist for the development of
the tree canopy and shall specify the planting of two hardwood trees for each
tree anticipated in the woodland. The plan shall assess 200 square feet for
each tree-designated woodland. For example, where 20,000 square feet are being
preserved, the following formula would be used: 20,000 square feet divided by
200 square feet equals 100 trees. As the required tree planting ratio is 2:1,
200 trees would be planted.
                     i.   The green space features in this section may not be
double counted.
                  (ii)    The following images portray desirable outcomes:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2971.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2973.png]
 
                  (iii)    Public infrastructure improvements. Improvements to
critical public infrastructure will be considered for a development bonus of up
to half of the maximum allowable bonuses for reductions in green space and
parking requirements. Improvements that support the extension and connection of
critical infrastructure above those improvements required for the function of
the development will be considered for a density bonus. Public infrastructure
improvement considerations include, but are not limited to:
                      a.   Extensions of collector roads through the
development.
                      b.   Improvements to critical wastewater infrastructure
including the construction of a regional lift station or the extension of a
collecting trunk line to serve multiple users in the district.
                     c.   Improvements to critical water infrastructure
including the extension and looping of transmission lines to provide increased
flows and redundancy in the water system in the district.
                     d.   Regional detention ponds for areas outside the C-
5 district.
                  (iv)   Example calculations.
                     a.   Example of a C-5 Town Center development:
 
Total area of development:          100 acres
Maximum coverage in percent of lot: 50% or 50 acres
Green space requirement:            30% or 30 acres
Maximum impervious area per zoning: 50 acres of structures = 70 acres plus 20
                                    acres impervious
 
                     b.   Some strategies that could be utilized to reduce the
green space requirement:
                        (I)   Eight-acre retention pond with recreational
amenities (retention area typically counts as 50% of area for green space
calculation)
                           8 acres * 125% = 10 acres (at 50%, 5 acres counted
for detention)
                        (II)   Assume this development would require 3.64 acres
of required landscaping but 110% is provided.
                           3.64 acres * 110% = 4 acres (provided)
                           4 acres * 125% = 5 acres (counted toward green
space)
                        (III)   4-acre civic green
                           4 acres * 200% = 8 acres (counted toward green
space)
                        (IV)   5-acre area establishing a woodland canopy
                           5 acres * 200% + 10 acres (counted toward green
space)
                        (V)   Providing 20.64 acres of physical green space.
                        (VI)   Counts as 32 acres of green space with bonuses
                        In this example, bonuses allow for 11.36 more acres of
development.
   (N)   Planned Developments. See §
154.064 Planned Developments for requirements regarding types of planned
developments, permitted uses, minimum site sizes, and the like.
   (O)   Light Industry - I-1 Zoning District. The I-1 Light Industry District
is intended to provide for areas where light industry, research facilities and
wholesale businesses may locate without detriment to the remainder of the
community. In these areas, a satisfactory correlation of factors required by
such uses exists or can be readily achieved.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Illumination: illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential
uses, lots, and streets.
      (3)   Land uses in an I-1 zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (4)   Outside building or storage: no outside storage permitted without
privacy screening installed per §
154.061(B).
      (5)   Parking area requirements: refer to §
154.081.
      (6)   Signage: refer to
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations.
      (7)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the I-1 zoning district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. Each building shall have its own centrally located
disposal area, regardless of the number of tenants in the building. All such
facilities shall be appropriately screened from adjoining properties and in a
manner that is compatible with the building site design for the zoning lot. Any
such outdoor trash or disposal system must be maintained to avoid the existence
of litter or the dispersal of trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot.
The accumulation of litter or trash is not permitted.
      (8)   Utilities: all utilities within the developed property will be
installed underground. Public utility facilities shall be adequately screened
with landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be
placed underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as
to blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area.
   (P)   General Industry - I-2 Zoning District. The I-2 General Industry
District is intended to provide for areas where heavy industries may locate
without detriment to the remainder of the community. In these areas, a
satisfactory correlation of factors required by such uses exists or can be
readily achieved.
      (1)   Area and bulk regulations: refer to §
154.032.
      (2)   Illumination: illumination of buildings and structures shall be
controlled so as to preclude the spillage of light onto adjoining residential
uses, lots, and streets.
      (3)   Land uses in an I-2 zoning district: for a general listing of
permitted and special uses, refer to §
154.033.
      (4)   Outside building or storage: no outside storage permitted without
privacy screening installed per §
154.061(B).
      (5)   Parking area: refer to §
154.081.
      (6)   Signage: refer to
Chapter 155 Sign Regulations.
      (7)   Trash disposal facilities: all outside trash or disposal facilities
within the I-2 zoning district shall be located in the rear of the zoning lot
and the building on the lot. Each building shall have its own centrally located
disposal area, regardless of the number of tenants in the building. All such
facilities shall be appropriately screened from adjoining properties and in a
manner that is compatible with the building site design for the zoning lot. Any
such outdoor trash or disposal system must be maintained to avoid the existence
of litter or the dispersal of trash outside the enclosure or the zoning lot.
The accumulation of litter or trash is not permitted.
      (8)   Utilities: all utilities within the developed property will be
installed underground. Public utility facilities shall be adequately screened
with landscaping, fencing or walls, or any combination thereof, or shall be
placed underground, or shall be enclosed in a structure in such a manner so as
to blend with and complement the character of the surrounding area.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2022-22, passed 6-20-
2022; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 2024-56, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 154.021 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established as
shown on the zoning map of this municipality. The zoning map, including all
notations and other information thereon, is hereby made a part of this chapter
by reference. Official copies of the zoning map shall be kept on file in the
office of the Code Official or other appropriate official. In the event there
is a conflict between the zoning district given for a legal description of any
parcel, and the description on the map, the zoning district given to the legal
description shall apply.
   (A)   (1)   Annual publication. In accordance with state law, the Code
Official shall publish the city’s zoning map not later than March 31st of each
year. However, no map shall be published for any calendar year during which
there have been no changes in zoning districts or regulations.
      (2)   Annexation requirements. All territory annexed into the City of
Troy will be classified as the most restrictive use (R-1). When new territory
is being annexed into the City of Troy and such territory needs its current
zoning district changed, the City must follow procedures described in §
154.143.
   (B)   Determining territory of districts with precision. In determining with
precision what territory is actually included within any zoning district, the
Code Official shall apply the following rules:
      (1)   Where a district boundary as indicated on the zoning map
approximately follows the features listed below on the left, the corresponding
feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary:
 
Center line of any street, alley or Such centerline
highway
Lot line                            Such lot line
Railroad tracks                     Center right-of-way line of such track
Streams                             Center of such stream
Section, fraction or survey line    Such line
 
      (2)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is legally vacated,
the zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.022 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied,
enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be used,
occupied, or developed except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be interpreted or
administered so as to restrict the erection, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of buildings (including farmhouses) or structures used or intended to
be used for agricultural purposes on agricultural land except that such
buildings or structures shall be required to conform to applicable setback
regulations. Whenever a portion of a tract of land ceases to be used primarily
for agricultural purposes, all pertinent provision of this chapter shall apply
to that portion.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.023 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. Any use that is not listed within §
154.033 shall be subject to the review process described in §
154.033(B).
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.024 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE STRUCTURES/USES.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise in the chapter, no temporary
structure shall be used or occupied for any purpose, and no land shall be used
for any temporary enterprise, whether for profit or not-for-profit, unless a
temporary use permit has been obtained. The Planning Commission is responsible
for either recommending or not recommending a temporary use permit to the City
Council. The City Council will make the final decision regarding the temporary
use permit. Temporary use permits shall not exceed one year from the time of
approval; however, an extension period of one additional year may be obtained
from the City Council.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.025 ONE BUILDING AND ALL YARDS ON ONE LOT.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise:
   (A)   Only one principal building or structure shall be permitted on any
residential lot; and
   (B)   No portion of any minimum area, minimum dimensions, or minimum yards
required for any lot, structure, or use shall be counted to satisfy the minimum
area, dimensions, or yards requirements for any other lot, structure or use.
   (C)   Land contained with lakefront lots that is under water when the lake
is at its highest level, shall not be counted in determining compliance with
minimum lot size requirements.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.026 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building or structure shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts
or has a permanent access easement to a public street or a private street. Such
permanent easement serving only one lot shall have a minimum width of 12 feet.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.027 FRONT SETBACKS - CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements of the district in which it is located on
every side having frontage.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.028 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise, in the residential zoning
districts and in the commercial zoning districts, where existing development
has already established a setback line, then new developments in that block
shall meet that established setback line.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.029 INTRUSION INTO YARDS.
   Except where principal buildings are commonly attached (for example, in the
downtown commercial area), no part of a principal building on one lot shall be
closer than ten feet from any part of a principal building located on an
abutting lot. However, so long as this overriding constraint is observed,
certain intrusions into required yards are permitted as indicated below:
 
Features                                                   Maximum Intrusions
Cornices, chimneys, planters, or similar architectural     Two feet
features
Fire escapes                                               Four feet
Canopies*, carports*, covered balconies*, decks*, patios*, Four feet
porches*, roof overhangs
Porches, not enclosed*                                     Six feet
Driveways, patios                                          No limit
 
      *   Enclosure of existing balconies, canopies, carports, decks, patios,
porches and sun/season rooms shall have no permitted intrusions and shall meet
all setback requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.030 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, parapet walls, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas, or other necessary appurtenances
commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to exceed the
maximum height limitations by 20% for the district in which they are located if
they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of this municipality.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by intersecting property lines and a line adjoining these property
lines at points 30 feet from the point of intersection, no obstruction, whether
natural or man-made, shall intrude into the air space that is between three
feet and ten feet above the level of the adjacent street.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.031 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   An ACCESSORY USE means any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal use or structure
that it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served;
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   In all R-1 and R-2 districts and the existing residential uses in
the C-4 district, accessory structures shall be limited to 900 square feet and
one-story (15 feet) for permanent structures and 600 square feet and one-story
(15 feet) for temporary or portable structures. However, the height of the
accessory structures shall not exceed the height of the principal structure.
         Exception: On single-family residential lots two acres and larger,
accessory structures may have a maximum square footage of 80% of the ground
floor area of the principal structure not to exceed 2,500 square feet, may be
no more than one-story, and have a maximum height of 24 feet.
      (2)   In all R-1 and R-2 zoning districts and the existing residential
uses in the C-4 district, the maximum number of detached accessory structures
shall be limited to two per lot with a combined square footage of 900 square
feet. However, the combined square footage of the accessory structures shall
not exceed the total square footage of the principal structure or use served.
      (3)   The design, construction, building material(s) and color of the
accessory structure shall be similar to or compatible with the design and
construction of the primary structure.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall not be permitted on any lot unless a
principal building exists.
      (5)   If an accessory use is attached to the principal structure, it
shall be considered part of that principal structure.
      (6)   Roof overhangs on accessory structures not attached to the
principal structure shall not encroach more than two feet into the required
setback distance.
         Exception: On single-family residential lots two acres and larger,
encroachments into the required setback distance shall not be permitted.
      (7)   Accessory structures shall be located in back yards only and set
back five feet from any lot line.
         Exception: On single-family residential lots two acres and larger,
accessory structures shall be set back at least 20 feet from any lot line.
      (8)   On single-family residential lots two acres and larger, metal
siding, roofing and trim can be used on all accessory structures that exceed
900 square feet. This metal siding, roofing and trim shall be made from 29-
gauge steel, having a yield strength of 80,000 pounds per square inch, coated
on both sides with at least a G60 galvanized coating, and having at least a 20-
year warranty on the finish.
      (9)   All permitted uses, height and area requirements shall also be
enforced in accordance with §§
154.032 and
154.033 of this chapter.
   (C)   Specifically prohibited accessory uses. The following accessory uses
are strictly prohibited unless expressly permitted in particular zoning
district(s):
      (1)   Use of an accessory structure as a dwelling.
      (2)   Use of accessory structures being used as the principal building
for any office or business. (Also see §
154.046).
      (3)   Use of an accessory structure in any part of a home occupation.
(Also see §
154.049).
      (4)   Use of any trailer type structure that when originally manufactured
was used for the transportation of goods or any trailer type structure that
when originally manufactured was used for human occupation.
   (D)   Limitations. See schedules (§§
154.032 and
154.033) for limitations and schedule listings located at the end of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2018-09, passed 5-21-2018; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-
2020; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-2023)
§ 154.032 SCHEDULE: AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS; PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter and for the better
administration and convenience of use thereof, the regulations limiting the
dwelling unit density, the heights, bulk and arrangements of buildings, and
requiring minimum off-street parking for each of the districts established by §
154.020 hereof (or specified use), are set forth in §
154.032 hereof. Such §
154.032 is hereby adopted and declared to be an integral part of this chapter,
and it may be amended in the same manner as any other part of this chapter.
Area and Bulk Regulations
                                      Minimum Lot Size      Minimum Yard Dimensions
                           Minimum                                                  Distance
                  Maximum  dwelling   Area           Mean         Depth of Depth of to
         Minimum  number   unit area  in    Width at depth  Depth side     side     nearest   Depth
Zoning   district of       or         sq.   building in     of    yard     yard     principal of
district size     dwelling commercial ft.   line     lineal front abutting abutting building  rear
                  units    tenant     or             feet   yard  a street a lot    on        yard
                           space in   acres                                         adjacent
                           sq. ft.                                                  lot
                                            Minimum Lot Size          Minimum Yard Dimensions
                                                                                                     Distance
                      Maximum  Minimum                         Mean            Depth of              to
             Minimum  number   dwelling     Area in   Width at depth  Depth of side     Depth of     nearest   Depth
Zoning       district of       unit area or sq. ft.   building in     front    yard     side yard    principal of
district     size     dwelling commercial   or acres  line     lineal yard     abutting abutting a   building  rear
                      units    tenant space                    feet            a street lot          on        yard
                               in sq. ft.                                                            adjacent
                                                                                                     lot
A-
R            N/A      1 per    N/A          1 acre    150 feet 150    50 feet  50 feet  25 feet      50 feet   50
Agricultural          acre                                     feet                                            feet
Reserve
                               *1,200 sq.
R-1 Single            1 per    ft. for all  11,000             125                                             25
Family       5 acres  lot      single       sq. ft.   85 feet  feet   30 feet  30 feet  10 feet      20 feet   feet
Residential                    family
                               residences
                                            9,500 sq.
                               *1,200 sq.   ft. for
R-1A Single                    ft. for all  corner
Family       5 acres  1 per    single       lots;     75 feet  110    30 feet  30 feet  10 feet      20 feet   25
Residential           lot      family       8,250 sq.          feet                                            feet
                               residences   ft. for
                                            remaining
                                            lots
                               *1,200 sq.
R-1E Single           1 per    ft. for all                     150                                             50
Family       10 acres lot      single       2 acres   150 feet feet   50 feet  50 feet  20 feet      40 feet   feet
Residential                    family
                               residences
                                            13,000
                                            sq. ft.
                               900 sq. ft.  for
R-2 Two                        for each     corner    110 feet
Family       5 acres  2 per    unit for     lots;     for 2    100    30 feet  30 feet  12 feet      24 feet   25
Residential           lot      duplex       11,500    family   feet                                            feet
                               residences   sq. ft.
                                            for
                                            remaining
                                            lots
                                            13,000
                                            sq. ft.
                      1 per    900 sq. ft.  for
R-3 Multi             5,750    for each     corner    50 feet
Family       3 acres  sq. ft.  unit for     lots;     per      100    30 feet  30 feet  12 feet      24 feet   25
Residential           of lot   apartment    11,500    dwelling feet                                            feet
                      area     residences   sq. ft.   unit
                                            for
                                            remaining
                                            lots
                                            9,500 sq.
                                            ft. for
MH                                          corner
Manufactured N/A      1 per    950 sq. ft.  lots;     60 feet  100    30 feet  30 feet  12 feet      24 feet   20
Home                  lot                   8,000 sq.          feet                                            feet
Residential                                 ft. for
                                            remaining
                                            lots
                                                                                        12 feet - if
                                                                                        a side yard
                                                                                        is provided;
                                                                                        20 feet -
                                                                                        lots
                                                                                        abutting
C-                                                                                      residential;
1            1 acres                        11,000    85 feet  125    30 feet  30 feet  zero lot               25
Neighborhood                                sq. ft.            feet                     lines                  feet
Commercial                                                                              permitted
                                                                                        for single
                                                                                        buildings
                                                                                        with
                                                                                        multiple
                                                                                        tenant
                                                                                        spaces
C-2 General  5 acres  N/A      350 sq. ft   22,500    150 feet 150    30 feet  30 feet  12 feet      24 feet   10
Commercial                                  sq. ft.            feet                                            feet
C-3 Highway  10 acres N/A      350 sq. ft.  22,500    150 feet 150    50 feet  30 feet  12 feet      24 feet   10
Commercial                                  sq. ft.            feet                                            feet
C-4 Downtown Contact the Building and Zoning Department for Requirements
Mixed-Use
                                                                      20 feet           10 feet;
                               Residential=                           maximum           interior
C-5 Town     PD-B/PD-          800 sq. ft;  10,000             100    (must             side yard
Center       R        40/acre  Commercial = sq. ft.   100 feet feet   build to          setbacks
             15 acres          1,200 sq.                              the               shall be 0
                               ft.                                    building          feet**
                                                                      line)
I-1 Light    3 acres  N/A      350 sq. ft.  43,560    150 feet 150    50 feet  50 feet  25 feet      50 feet   25
Industry                                    sq. ft.            feet                                            feet
I-2 General  3 acres  N/A      350 sq. ft.  43,560    150 feet 150    50 feet  50 feet  25 feet      50 feet   25
Industry                                    sq. ft.            feet                                            feet
 
   *   Of the total 1,200 sq. ft. at least 850 sq. ft. is required to be on
ground level.
   **   Interior side yard setbacks shall be 0 ft. except where side building
pedestrian access is provided between and adjacent building.
      In such case, the interior side yard façade setback shall be a minimum of
10 ft. and a maximum of 20 ft. from the property line.
 
   Area and Bulk Regulations
                                                Accessory Buildings - Minimum
                                                Distance To:
         Maximum  Maximum   Maximum   Maximum                  Side lot           Minimu
Zoning   coverage size of   height of height of Princip  Front line     Side Rear m off-
district in       principal principal accessory al       lot   adjacent lot  lot  street
         percent  building  building  building  building line  to a     line line parking
         of lot                                                street
                                                    Accessory Buildings - Minimum
                                                    Distance To:
             Maximum  Maximum   Maximum   Maximum                  Side lot           Minimu m
Zoning       coverage size of   height of height of Princip  Front line     Side Rear off-
district     in       principal principal accessory al       lot   adjacent lot  lot  street
             percent  building  building  building  building line  to a     line line parking
             of lot                                                street
A-
R            10%      N/A       35 feet   35 feet   20 feet  50    50 feet  25   50   2 per
Agricultural                                                 feet           feet feet unit
Reserve
R-1 Single                                                                  5    5    2 per
Family       30%      N/A       35 feet   15 feet   10 feet  N/A   30 feet  feet feet unit
Residential
R-1A Single                                                                 5    5    2 per
Family       30%      N/A       35 feet   15 feet   10 feet  N/A   30 feet  feet feet unit
Residential
R-1E Single                                                                 20   20   3 per
Family       10%      N/A       35 feet   24 feet   20 feet  N/A   50 feet  feet feet unit
Residential
R-2 Two                                                                     5    5    2 per
Family       40%      N/A       35 feet   15 feet   10 feet  N/A   30 feet  feet feet unit
Residential
R-3 Multi                                                                   5    5    2 per
Family       40%      N/A       35 feet   15 feet   10 feet  N/A   30 feet  feet feet unit
Residential
MH
Manufactured 40%      N/A       35 feet   15 feet   10 feet  N/A   25 feet  5    5    2 per
Home                                                                        feet feet unit
Residential
C-           40%                                                                      See §§
1            (bldg/             35 ft     See §                                      154.020
Neighborhood park)                        154.020(I)                                  (I) and
Commercial                                                                            154.087
C-2 General           25,000    2 stories                                   10   10   See §
Commercial   50%      sq. ft.   above     20 feet   10 feet  N/A   30 feet  feet feet 154.087
                                grade
C-3 Highway                     4 stories                                   10   10   §
Commercial   50%      N/A       or 55 ft. 20 feet   10 feet  N/A   50 feet  feet feet 154.087
                                max.
C-4 Old Town Contact the Building and Zoning Department for Requirements
C-5 Town     50%      N/A       50'       N/A       N/A      N/A   N/A      N/A  N/A  See §
Center                                                                                154.087
I-1 Light                       4 stories                    50             25   25   See §
Industry     50%      N/A       or 55 ft. 35 feet   10 feet  feet  50 feet  feet feet 154.087
                                max.
I-2 General                     4 stories                    50             25   25   See §
Industry     60%      N/A       or 55 ft. 35 feet   10 feet  feet  50 feet  feet feet 154.087
                                max.
 
   *   Of the total 1,200 sq. ft. at least 850 sq. ft. is required to be on
ground level.
   **   Interior side yard setbacks shall be 0 ft. except where side building
pedestrian access is provided between and adjacent building.
      In such case, the interior side yard façade setback shall be a minimum of
10 ft. and a maximum of 20 ft. from the property line.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2015-19, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 2020-
15, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 2024-56, passed 9-16-
2024)
§ 154.033 SCHEDULE: PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter and for the better
administration and convenience of use thereof, the regulations designating
permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, special uses and specifically
prohibited uses for each of the districts are established by §
154.020. Section
154.033 is intended and declared to be an integral part of this chapter by
designating permitted uses in each zoning district and it may be amended in the
same manner as any other part of this chapter. If a proposed use is not clearly
defined in §
154.033, the matter shall be referred to the Code Official. The Code Official
may confer with the City Administrator and City Attorney. The Code Official
shall consider the nature of the proposed use and determine if it is
substantially similar to a use listed in §
154.033. The factors to be considered include, but are not limited to: size of
the structure, traffic likely to be generated, the presence of manufacturing,
assembly or preparation at the proposed site, and the degree of similarity with
clearly permitted uses. If the Code Official determines that the proposed use
is substantially similar to a permitted use, the proposed use shall be
considered as permitted and shall be subject to the limitations that would
apply to such clearly permitted similar use. All such designations of
substantially similar uses shall be reported to the City Council and the
Planning Commission. Any proposed use that is not so characterized as
substantially similar to a clearly permitted use shall be considered as a
prohibited unlisted use. An amendment or special use permit, as applicable, may
be sought.
   (B)   Each column refers to a specific district that lists the permitted
uses and read vertically under a district column.
   (C)   Limitations and requirements in §
154.033 as used in a column shall mean and include the specific limitations and
requirements as set forth in the same column for the district referred to.
Where reference is made in §
154.033 to another section or provision of this chapter, such section or
provision referred to shall thereby be incorporated as an integral part of the
requirements including such reference. All provisions of this chapter shall
apply as integral parts of this Section although not specifically cited as a
column.
   Permitted and Special Uses in the Zoning Classifications
   (P = Permitted Use, S = Special Use)
 A-R R-1 R-1A R-1E R-2 R-3 M- H C-1 C-2 C-3 C-4 I-1 I-2
                   A-R R-1 R-1A R-1E R-2 R-3 M- H C-1     C-2 C-3 C-4 I-1 I-2
Accessory uses     P   P   P    P    P   P   P            P   P   P   P   P
Agricultural uses  P            P
Ambulance and                                             P   P
paramedic services
Amusement          P                                      P   P
establishments
Antique stores                                            P   P   P
Apparel stores                                            P   P   P
Arboretums and     P
botanical gardens
Archery ranges,                                           P   P
indoor
Architectural and                                         P   P
planning services
Art and school                                            P   P
supply stores
Art galleries or                                          P   P   P
museums
Asphalt plants                                                            P
ATMs                                                      P   P   P
Auditoriums                                                   P
Auto accessory                                            P   P   P
stores
Auto dealers, new                                         P   P
or used
Auto laundries and
car washing                                               P   P
facilities
Auto leasing                                              P   P
facilities
Auto service
facilities (major                                             P       P   P
repairs, towing
etc.)*
Auto service
facilities (minor                                         P   P
repairs, tune ups,
oil changes, etc.)
Bakeries                                                  P   P   P
Banks                                                     P   P   P
Barber shops/                                             P   P   P
beauty salons/spas
Bars, taverns,
lounges and                                               P   P   P
wineries
Bicycle shops
(sales, rental and                                        P   P   P
repair)
Billiard and pool                                         P   P   P
halls
Boat sales and                                            P   P
service
Book stores                                               P   P   P
Bowling alleys                                            P   P
Building materials
and products sales                                        P   P   P   P   P
and service, no
outside storage
Bus passenger                                             P   P
stations
Business and
office machine                                            P   P   P
sales and services
Camera stores                                             P   P   P
Camper/motor home                                             P       P   P
sales and leasing*
Candy and
confectionery                                             P   P   P
stores
Cannabis                                                  S   S
dispensary
Catering                                                  P   P   P
Cemeteries         P
China and                                                 P   P   P
glassware stores
Churches           S   S   S    S    S   S                P   P   P
Clothing and
costume rental                                            P   P
shops
Clubs and lodges                                          P   P
Coffee shops                                              P   P   P
Concrete plants                                                           P
Condominiums                             P                        S
Contractor and
construction                                                          P   P
yards*
Convalescent and                                          P   P   S
nursing homes
Convenience stores                                        P   P
with gas pumps
Convenience stores                                        P   P   P
without gas pumps
Convention centers                                            P
Craft and hobby                                           P   P   P
stores
Dairies and                                                               P
creameries
Dairy product                                             P   P   P
stores
Dance halls                                                   P
Daycare centers,
nurseries and          S   S    S    S   S                P   P   P
preschools
Department stores                                         P   P
Discount stores                                           P   P
Drapery stores                                            P   P
Dress making                                              P   P
stores
Driving ranges     P                                      S   S
Drug stores                                               P   P   P
Dry cleaners                                              P   P   P
Electrical repairs                                        P   P       P   P
services*
Employment                                                P   P
agencies
Engineering and                                           P   P
surveying services
Equipment rental
and leasing                                               P   P
services with
indoor storage
Equipment rental
services with                                             P   P       P   P
outdoor storage*
Exterminator                                              P   P
services
Fairgrounds and    P                                          S       S   S
exhibition grounds
Farm and hydraulic
equipment sales                                               P       P   P
and service*
Fitness centers,                                          P   P   P
gyms, health clubs
Flea markets -
enclosed within a                                         P   P       P   P
building*
Flea markets -                                                S       S   S
open
Floral shops                                              P   P   P
Food stores
including                                                 P   P   P
delicatessens
Funeral parlors                                           P   P
Furniture stores                                          P   P   P
Garage displays                                               P       P   P
Garages - federal,
state, county or                                                      P   P
municipal*
Gift shops                                                P   P   P
Golf courses,                                             P   P
miniature size
Golf courses,      P   S   S    S    S   S
regulation size
Government uses of P                 S   S                P   P
the City of Troy
Grain elevators                                                           P
Grocery stores and                                        P   P
supermarkets
Hardware stores                                           P   P   P
Home appliances                                           P   P   P
stores
Home occupations       P   P    P    P   P   P                    P
Hospitals                                                     P
Hotels and motels                                         S   P
Ice and dry ice                                                           P
plants
Ice cream stores                                          P   P   P
Internet service
provider                                                  P   P
facilities
Jewelry stores                                            P   P   P
Kennels            P
Laboratories                                                  P       P   P
Landscaping                                               P   P       P   P
services*
Laundromats                                               P   P
Laundry and dry                                                           P
cleaning plants
Locksmiths                                                P   P
Lumber yards with                                                     P   P
outbuildings*
Machine shops*                                                P       P   P
Machinery sales                                               P       P   P
and service*
Mail order houses                                             P
Manufacturing and
industrial
activities
including,
fabrication,
processing,
assembly,
disassembly,
repairing,
cleaning,                                                                 P
servicing,
testing,
packaging, and
storage of
materials,
products and goods
that can be
wholly, within
enclosed buildings
Manufacturing of
clothing and
fabrics, and
printing and                                                              P
finishing of
textiles and
fibers into fabric
goods
Manufacturing of
petroleum
products,                                                                 P
chemicals and
natural or liquid
gases                                             See §
Manufacturing of                                  154.020
pharmaceutical                                    (I)
products,
including                                                                 P
compounding of
cosmetics and
toiletries
Manufacturing of
plastic, rubber,                                                          P
steel and wood
products, etc.
Manufacturing or
assembly of boats,
firearms,                                                                 P
machinery and
hardware products
and vehicles
Manufacturing or
assembly of
medical equipment,
drafting optical
and musical
instruments,                                                              P
watches, clocks,
toys, games, and
electronic
apparatus and
computer equipment
Manufacturing or
storage of food,
including beverage
blending or
bottling, bakery
products, candy                                                           P
manufacturing,
fruit or vegetable
processing or
canning of food
products
Meat markets                                              P   P   P
Meat processing
plants (packing
and processing of                                                     P   P
meats, poultry and
animals)
Medical and dental                                        P   P
clinics
Meeting halls                                             P   P   P
Microwave and
radar tower                                                           P   P
installations
Mobile or
manufactured home                                             P       S   S
sales
Mobile or                                    P
manufactured homes
Modular homes          P   P    P
Monument                                                      P       P   P
manufacturing*
Monument sales                                            P   P
Motor vehicle
repair and service
facilities (buses,                                                    P   P
tractor trailers,
etc.)*
Motor vehicle
sales, new and                                                        P   P
used (buses,
tractors, etc.)
Motorcycle sales                                          P   P
Movie theaters -                                          P   P
indoor
Multiple family                          P                        S
dwellings
Music stores                                              P   P   P
Newspaper and
periodical                                                P   P       P   P
publishing
Nurseries and      P                                      P   P       P   P
greenhouses*
Office supply and                                         P   P   P
stationery stores
Offices utilizing
more than two
company vehicles                                          P   P
and/or outside
storage
Offices with no
more than two                                             P   P   P
company vehicles
Package liquor                                            P   P
stores
Paint and                                                 P   P   P
wallpaper stores
Parks with outdoor P                                      P   P
illumination
Parks without
outdoor            P   P   P    P    P   P   P            P   P   P
illumination
Pet shops                                                 P   P
Photography                                                   P
studios
Planned            S   S   S    S    S   S                S   S   S   S   S
developments
Post offices                                                  P
Printing and                                              P   P   P
copying services
Public libraries                                              P
Public utility
company yards - no                                                    P   P
production*
Racetracks         P
Radio, television,
stereo and                                                    P
electronic sales
Recreation and
entertainment -                                           P   P   P
indoor
Recreation and
entertainment -                                           P   P
outdoor
Research and
development of                                                        P   P
certain
commodities*
Restaurants (high
turnover, fast                                            P   P
food)
Restaurants (low
turnover, sit                                             P   P   P
down, no drive-
thru)
Retirement and
assisted living                          S                P   P   S
centers
Schools -
colleges,
universities,      S                                      S   S
technical and
trade schools
Schools -
elementary and     S   S   S    S    S   S                P   P
high school
Sharpening and
grinding                                                  P   P       P   P
businesses
Shoe and clothing
repair and                                                P   P   P
alteration shops
Shoe store                                                P   P
Shopping centers,
malls and outlet                                              P
malls
Single family          P   P    P                                 S
dwellings
Skating rinks -                                           P   P
indoor
Specialized living                   S   P
accommodations
Sporting
facilities -                                              P   P
indoor
Sporting goods                                            P   P   P
stores
Stadiums           P                                          P       S   S
Storage units,                                                P       P   P
public*
Swimming pools,        S   S    S    S   S                P   P   S
private
Swimming pools,                                           P   P
public
Taxi garages*                                                 P       P   P
Telecommunications
facilities and                                                        P   P
towers
Tire, battery and
other automotive
and light duty                                            P   P
vehicle accessory
services
Tobacco shops                                             P   P   P
Towing services*                                              P       P   P
Townhouses                               P                        S
Toy stores                                                P   P   P
Transit or
transportation                                                P
facilities (no
storage yard)
Travel centers                                                S       S   S
(auto and truck)
Two family                           P                            S
dwellings
Utility            P   S   S    S    S   S   S                        P   P
substations
Veterinary
services with      P                                          S
outdoor pens
Veterinary
services without                                          P   P
outdoor pens
Video rental and                                          P   P
sales stores
Warehousing and
storage where no
more than four
loading docks take                                                    P   P
up 25% or less of
exterior wall
area*
Wholesale
establishments
where no more than
four loading docks                                                    P   P
take up 25% or
less of exterior
wall area*
Wineries without                                          P   P   P
vineyards
Wineries with      P
vineyards
 
   *   C-1: no outside storage permitted; C-4: no outside storage on commercial
or mixed use; C-2, C-3, I-1, and I-2: no outside storage without privacy
screening installed as per §
154.061.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2022-
22, passed 6-20-2022; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-2023)
SUPPLEMENTARY ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 154.045 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter established lot and structure requirements, design
standards, and use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome,
structures and uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the
specific structure or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit. But if
more stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, such
regulations shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.046 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND CAMPING TRAILERS.
   The regulations of this section do not apply to camping trailers or other
similar recreational vehicles (RVs) parked in permitted camping trailer parks
or lots permitting camping trailer sales. The regulations of this section do
include all motor vehicles, motor homes, trailers, boats, boat trailers,
campers, vehicle carriers or any other similar trailer or recreational vehicle
that is not parked on any permitted camping park or sales lot.
   (A)   No motor home, trailer, boat, boat trailer, camper, vehicle carrier or
any other similar trailer or recreational vehicle shall be parked on any public
right-of-way street or alley unless approved by the city.
   (B)   No camping trailer or other similar recreational vehicle shall be used
as living quarters (other than in a camping trailer park).
   (C)   No camping trailer or other similar recreational vehicle shall be used
as an office or for any other commercial use. However, construction trailers
may be used as field offices on large construction sites at the Code Official’s
discretion.
   (D)   No motor vehicle, motor home, camping trailer, boat, boat trailer, RV
or other similar recreational vehicle shall be parked on any front or side yard
that abuts a street except on a driveway. When any of these vehicles are parked
in any rear yard or side yard abutting a lot, such parking area and driveway
access shall consist of at least four inches of crushed stone.
   (E)   No motor vehicle, motor home, camping trailer, RV or any other similar
recreational vehicle shall be parked on any front, side or rear yard in any
multi-family use or dwelling, including duplexes, unless a driveway is
provided. No more than two recreational vehicles including boats and trailers
shall be parked on any lot including a driveway in any zoning district.
However, no restrictions shall be placed upon the allowable number of
recreations vehicles that may be parked on the lot of a permitted business that
sells such vehicles.
   (F)   Accessory parking spaces and their means of access shall not allow or
permit yard to become unsightly or poorly maintained with nuisances such as
ruts, mud or tall weeds or grass.
(Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.047 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   No sharp-pointed fence or barbed wire fence shall be erected or
maintained anywhere in the residential districts. In the commercial or
industrial districts a barbed wire fence is allowed if the barbed wire is above
eight feet.   
   (B)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected within any public
right-of-way without the written approval of the Code Official.
   (C)   No fence, wall, tree, shrub or any other obstruction shall be
permitted in any easement or within any street or alley right-of-way, except by
written approval of the city. No obstruction shall violate the Illinois
Drainage Code. In order for repair and maintenance services to be performed,
utilities shall have the right to destroy any such improvements or obstacles
within any right-of-way or easements and shall only be responsible to restore
the area back to its natural grade.
   (D)   Every fence, wall or other obstruction shall conform to the special
height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections (see §
154.030(B)). No fence, wall or other obstructions in any front yard area shall
exceed four feet in height or in any rear or side yard exceed eight feet in
height unless a commercial or industrial lot abuts the rear or side yard of a
residential lot, then privacy screening requirements must be followed (see §
154.061).
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.048 AUTOMOTIVE (MOTOR VEHICLE) SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   All service facilities, and fuel pumps, including those used for
gasoline, diesel and propane, shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from any
street right-of-way line, side lot line, or rear lot line.
   (B)   All fuel pumps used to provide the dispensing of all fuels shall be
located in such a manner that they do not prohibit the movement of motor
vehicles that are not being fueled from passing the dispensing area or
interfering with any parking lot access way.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.049 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   The intent of this section is to provide peace, quiet, and domestic
tranquility within all residential neighborhoods within the city, and to
alleviate or limit excessive noise, excessive traffic, nuisance, fire hazard,
and other anticipated adverse effects of commercial uses being conducted in
residential areas. The intent is not to require permits of those persons under
the age of eighteen who are engaged in miscellaneous part-time seasonal work
such as lawn mowing or snow shoveling.
   (A)   When permitted. Notwithstanding other sections of this Section a home
occupation may be conducted in zones R-1, R-2, R-3 and M-H, provided that it
shall be unlawful to conduct such home occupation without the prior issuance of
a home occupation permit or home occupation conditional use permit, except for
the following:
      (1)   A public auction provided that such auction is held no more than
one time each calendar year and takes place for no more than two consecutive
days;
      (2)   Garage sales, subject to the conditions set forth below; and
      (3)   Minor’s miscellaneous seasonal work.
      (4)   Garage sales. It shall be unlawful to conduct a garage sale unless
such sale is in compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Sales shall last no longer than three consecutive days.
         (b)   Sales are held no more than twice yearly at any one location.
         (c)   Sales are conducted on a person’s then owned or rented dwelling
property provided that multi-family sales are permitted if they are held on
property then owned or rented for dwelling purposes by one of the participants.
         (d)   No goods purchased for resale may be offered for sale.
         (e)   No consignment goods may be offered for sale.
         (f)   All directional advertising signs shall be freestanding and
shall be removed after completion of the sale.
         (g)   No directional or advertising signs shall be larger than two
feet by three feet.
   (B)   Issuance of home occupation permits.
      (1)   A home occupation permit shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator, upon application to the office of the official and payment of a
sum equal to the annual permit fee, without a hearing, provided that the home
occupation is owned solely by the applicant, and conforms to all of the
applicable requirements of this section, and is one or more of the following
occupations:
         (a)   Dressmaking, sewing, and tailoring.
         (b)   Artistic painting, sculpturing, art restoration, art studio or
writing.
         (c)   Telephone answering or telephone soliciting if no part of the
business equipment is installed outside of the residence other than the
telephone cables or wires.
         (d)   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, and lapidary
work.
         (e)   Tutoring, limited to one student at a time.
         (f)   Home cooking or preserving if conducted solely within the
residence.
         (g)   Computer programming if no part of the business equipment is
installed outside of the residence other than telephone cables or wires.
         (h)   Secretarial service, accounting service, typing service, word
processing service if no part of the business equipment is installed outside of
the residence other than telephone cables or wires.
         (i)   Babysitting and child daycare.
         (j)   Direct sale product distribution.
         (k)   Laundry, ironing service, housecleaning.
         (l)   Mail orders, not including retail sales from the site.
         (m)   Stock and bond broker, financial planner, and estate planner.
         (n)   Builder’s or contractor’s office so long as no part of the
business is carried on outside of the residence.
         (o)   Short-term lodging that is booked through an online marketplace
or homestay network.
      (2)   Any appeal of a denial of such application shall be to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to
issuing its recommendation to the City Council. After receiving the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City Council shall determine by
a majority vote whether to grant or deny the permit.
   (C)   Standards. All home occupations, whether authorized by permit or
conditional use permit, shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Home occupations shall not be conducted in any dwelling on the
premises other than the building that is used by the occupant as the private
dwelling.
      (2)   No interior or exterior business sign shall be larger than two
square feet in area. The sign shall be unlighted and installed only on the
dwelling building itself.
      (3)   There shall be no exterior or outbuilding storage of business
equipment, materials, merchandise or inventory. No equipment materials,
merchandise or inventory may be stored in the yard of the residence.
      (4)   Any occupation that requires licensing, registration or permits, by
state or federal statute or requirements, or by city ordinance or requirements
must be at the time of the application, and at all times thereafter be
appropriately licensed, registered, or have a permit and comply with
requirements of all such license or permits.
      (5)   There shall be a specific area set aside for the home occupation
that shall not exceed twenty-five percent of the total living area of such
residence.
      (6)   Home occupations shall not utilize more than a total of two persons
either as an employee, an independent contractor, a volunteer, or in any other
capacity to render service in the performance of such occupation, and both of
such persons shall reside in the residence wherein the home occupation is
conducted.
      (7)   Off-street parking requirements of the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Troy, Illinois, shall be complied with.
      (8)   Home occupations shall not be capable of creating either a nuisance
or a fire hazard with respect to neighboring property, and shall not
substantially increase the vehicular traffic.
      (9)   A home occupation conditional use permit may be issued subject to
the conditions, the violation of which shall be grounds for revocation of such
permit.
      (10)   Home occupations shall not initiate or receive deliveries of
occupation related items, supplies, materials or inventory between the hours of
6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (D)   Inspections. Upon reasonable suspicion that the permittee is in non-
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter or that the permittee
may be engaged in an occupation that may be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of the public, the Building and Zoning Department shall have the right
at any time, upon reasonable request, to enter and inspect only the premises
covered by the permit (e.g. only the business area) for safety and compliance
purposes.
   (E)   Nontransferability of permits. Home occupation and home occupation
conditional use permits are not transferable from person to person or from one
building to any other building, except as set forth in this section in the case
of death of the permittee.
   (F)   General provisions.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses. All nonconforming uses or home occupations that
existed and continue to exist from the date of the original zoning ordinance
may continue to exist unless revoked or terminated as provided in this section.
All existing uses or home occupations that are operating based on a special use
permit issued prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to
operate subject to the provisions of the original permit. Those previously
issued special uses permits subject to periodic renewal by the Planning
Commission, or the city may be reviewed and requirements of this section may be
applied at time of review.
      (2)   Death of permit holder. Should a home occupation permit holder or
home occupation conditional use permit holder die, the existing permit shall be
automatically terminated, except that should a surviving spouse or child
residing at the same address desire to continue the home occupation, written
notice to that effect shall be given to the Zoning Administrator within thirty
days of the permittee’s death, and the surviving spouse or child shall become
the permittee and shall be subject to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Revocation of conditional use permits. Home occupation conditional
use permits, once granted, may be revoked by the City Council for cause after a
hearing before the Planning Commission. Complaints seeking the revocation of
such permit shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and may be initiated
by either the Planning Commission, or any three persons who reside at three
different locations within one city block of where such occupation is
conducted. All such revocation hearings shall be conducted in accordance with
applicable publication and notice requirements as used for home occupation
conditional use permit application hearings.
      (4)   Revocation of home occupation permits. The Zoning Administrator may
revoke any home occupation permit for noncompliance with the criteria set forth
is this section and appeal of such revocation shall be allowed as set forth in
division (F)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Modification of requirements. Modifications of the above
regulations may be approved by the City Council in individual cases of
applications for home occupation conditional use permits if the modification is
found by the City Council to be in the best interests of the city.
      (6)   Time limits in applying for permit. All home occupations being
conducted in violation of this section shall, within 60 days after the adoption
of the ordinance from which this section derives, apply for the necessary
permit or conditional use permit as the case may be, and enforcement of this
section shall be stayed for such 60 days and, if application is made, until
granting or denial of such application.
      (7)   Penalty. Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this section, shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty provisions as set forth in the Zoning Code.
In addition, the City Council may revoke the home occupation conditional use
permit or the home occupation permit.
   (G)   Applications.
      (1)   The initial fee for a home occupation permit shall be $50, and the
annual renewal fee for such permit shall be $10 and shall be payable no later
than January 31 of the year for which the permit is renewed.
      (2)   The initial fee for the home occupation conditional use permit
shall be $300 and shall be paid with the application for such permit which
shall be filed with the City Clerk. The first annual renewal fee for a home
occupation conditional use permit shall be $200 and the second and each annual
renewal fee thereafter for a home occupation conditional use permit shall be
$100, and all such renewal fees shall be paid by January 31 of the year for
which the permit is renewed.
      (3)   No reduction in annual permit fees shall be allowed for permits
issued after January 1 of any year, nor will any refunds be made if permittee
ceases the home occupation or when a permit is revoked or denied.
      (4)   All permits shall expire on December 31 of each year and may be
renewed without additional hearings, subject to the requirements of this
section. Applicants for renewal shall complete the renewal form prescribed by
the City Clerk and pay the annual permit fee.
      (5)   The application for a home occupation conditional use permit shall
be forwarded to the Planning Commission for public hearing. Legal notice of
such hearings to be given shall be as required for petition, rezonings,
variances and other conditional uses. At the conclusion of such hearing the
Planning Commission shall make the recommendation to the City Council and the
City Council shall be the sole authority to grant or deny such permit.
   (H)   Summary disposition.
      (1)   Notwithstanding other subsections of this section, an application
for a home occupation conditional use permit or the appeal of the denial of a
home occupation permit by the Zoning Administrator which on its face requests
such permit for a home occupation to be conducted in a manner other than as
permitted by the section may be summarily denied by the City Council without
publication of notice or hearing, and written notice of such denial stating the
specific reason therefore shall be given the applicant, such notice to be given
by mailing it to applicant at the address shown on the application by prepaid
certified return receipt requested United States mail within ten days of the
date of such denial.
      (2)   An applicant who desires to appeal such summary denial may appeal
to the City Council by filing a written request therefore with the City Clerk
within 14 days of the date of receipt of the summary denial.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2017-02, passed 2-21-2017) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.050 NURSING HOMES.
   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum width and
depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of two acres.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.051 JUNK YARDS.
   After the effective date of this chapter no part of any junkyard, that
includes any lot on which any three or more inoperable or unlicensed vehicles
are stored, shall be operated within this city.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.052 SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   (A)   All sanitary landfills shall conform to the rules and regulations
adopted by the Illinois Pollution Control Council pursuant to Section 5, 22,
and 27 of the Environmental Protection Act (ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, §§ 5, 22, and
27) and consistent with the policy and purposes expressed in Section 20 thereof
(ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 20). Such rules and regulations contained within “Solid
Waste Rules and Regulations,” State of Illinois, Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (B)   Sanitary landfills are allowed by special use only.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.053 SCHOOLS.
   The lot on which any school is situated shall have the minimum area
indicated below:
 
Type of School                         Minimum Lot Area
Nursery, day care center               11,500 sq. ft.
Other (elementary, junior high, senior As required by state law B normally four
high)                                  acres, plus one additional acre for
                                       every 150 students in excess of 200.
 
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.054 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Pools shall not be located within six feet from any side or rear
property line or within ten feet of any public right-of-way or in any front
yard.
   (B)   Every swimming pool two feet or greater in depth, whether public or
private, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least four feet in height.
   (C)   If the pool wall itself is used as the barrier, the wall, at all
points around the pool, shall be a least four feet higher than the finished
grade for a distance of at least four feet away from the pool wall.
   (D)   All access gates shall be self-closing and have a self-latching device
located on the pool side of the gate.
   (E)   All wiring to operate pool equipment must be installed in conduit or
cable designed for direct burial and buried a minimum of 18 inches below grade.
The power source must also be GFI protected.
   (F)   Pools shall not be filled until all safety requirements and
regulations of the latest adopted building code are met and approved by the
city.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.055 AERIALS, ANTENNAS, TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS AND FACILITIES, SMALL
CELL FACILITIES AND UTILITY SUBSTATIONS.
   (A)   Regulations for aerials, antennas, telecommunication towers/
facilities, and small cell facilities.
      (1)   Selected definitions.
         ALTERNATIVE ANTENNA STRUCTURE. An existing pole or other structure
within the public right-of-way that can be used to support an antenna and is
not a utility pole or a city-owned infrastructure.
         ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives
electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of any type of wireless
communications services.
         APPLICANT. Any person or entity submitting an application to install
personal wireless telecommunication facilities or structures to support the
facilities within a public right-of-way.
         CITY-OWNED INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure in a public right-of-way
within the boundaries of the city including, but not limited to, streetlights,
towers, structures, or buildings owned, operated or maintained by the city.
         CO-LOCATION (CO-USE). The location of two or more antennas or other
telecommunication devices or a single telecommunication tower or other
supporting structure.
         DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM. A type of personal wireless
telecommunication facility consisting of a network of spatially separated
antenna nodes connected to a common source via a transport medium that provides
wireless service within a geographic area. Generally serves multiple carriers.
         LANDSCAPING. The installation at grade of plantings, shrubbery, bushes
or other foliage intended to screen the base of a personal wireless
telecommunication facility from public view.
         MONOPOLE. A structure composed of a single spire, pole or tower
designed and used to support antennas or related equipment and that is not a
utility pole, an alternative antenna structure, or a city-owned infrastructure.
         PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION ANTENNA. An antenna that is part
of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
         PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. Equipment, exclusive of
an antenna, that is part of a personal wireless telecommunications facility.
         PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. An antenna, equipment,
and related improvements used, or designed to be used, to provide wireless
transmission of voice, data video streams, images, or other information
including, but not limited to, cellular phone service, personal communication
service, paging, and Wi-Fi antenna service.
         SMALL CELL FACILITIES. A personal wireless telecommunications facility
consisting of an antenna and related equipment either installed singly or as
part of a network to provide coverage or enhance capacity in a limited defined
area. Generally single-service provider installation.
         TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. An unmanned facility consisting of a
telecommunication tower and any structures required to provide support
services.
         TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for
the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting
lattice towers, guy towers, or monopole towers, and that is not a utility pole,
an alternative antenna structure, or a city-owned infrastructure. Except as
otherwise provided for by this section, the requirements for a tower and
associated antenna facilities shall be those required in this section. The term
shall not include equipment used by amateur radio operators that meets the
requirements of divisions (A)(3)(a) through (A)(3)(c) of this section.
         UTILITY POLE. An upright pole designed and used to support electric
cables, telephone cables, telecommunication cables, cable service cables, which
are used to provide lighting, signage, or a similar function.
         VARIANCE or VARIATION. A grant of relief by the Planning Commission or
his/her designee.
         WI-FI ANTENNA. An antenna used to support Wi-Fi broadband Internet
access service based on the IEEE 802.11 standard that typically uses unlicensed
spectrum to enable communication between devices.
      (2)   Purpose and intent.
         (a)   To direct the installation of aerials, antennas,
telecommunication towers/facilities and small cell facilities within the city
by providing specific regulations and standards for the placement and siting of
personal wireless telecommunication facilities with the public right-of-way.
         (b)   To protect the public health, safety and welfare while
preventing interference with the facilities and operations of the city’s
utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in the public right-of-way or
property.
         (c)   To protect residential areas and land uses from the potential
adverse impact of aerials, antennas, and telecommunication towers, preserve the
character of the neighborhoods in which the facilities are installed, and
assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties adjacent to
personal wireless telecommunication facilities.
         (d)   To minimize adverse visual impact, prevent visual blight and
avoid potential damage from tower failure in the neighborhoods in which
facilities are installed through careful engineering, design, permitting,
siting and screening.
         (e)   To accommodate the growing need for telecommunication facilities
by facilitating the location of personal wireless telecommunication facilities
in permitted locations within the public right-of-way in the city.
         (f)   To encourage and promote co-location of existing and new
telecommunication facilities as a primary option rather than construction of
single-use facilities.
      (3)   Aerials, antennas, and telecommunication towers/facilities (non
right-of-way) standards and regulations.
         (a)   No aerial, antenna or telecommunication tower shall exceed 120
feet in total height.
         (b)   No antenna or similar equipment shall extend more than ten feet
above any roof peak in any residential and/or commercial zoning district.
         (c)   No telecommunication tower/antenna shall be placed upon any
building or rooftop unless the tower/antenna is an accessory use to the main
use of the building.
         (d)   The distance from the base of an aerial, antenna or
telecommunication tower to the nearest property line shall not be less than the
height of the aerial, antenna or telecommunication tower measured from ground
level to the top of the aerial, antenna or tower.
         (e)   Six-foot-high security fencing shall be installed around the
base and guy anchors of all telecommunication facilities.
         (f)   Closely planted evergreen trees or shrubs at least 6 feet high
shall be planted around the exterior of any security fencing and around the
base and guy anchors of a telecommunication facility. Additional deciduous
trees at least two inches in girth, plus evergreen trees at least six feet in
height shall be planted around the perimeter of the property, near the property
lines, upon which a telecommunication facility is located in order to provide
additional screening of the tower from passersby.
         (g)   Any person, firm or corporation wishing to construct a
telecommunication tower shall seek permission to co-located or co-use on an
existing tower. No person, firm or corporation shall refuse colocation of other
equipment.
         (h)   1.   Any person, firm, or corporation wishing to construct a
telecommunication tower and/or facility, shall provide a bond to the city in
the amount of $25,000 or 25% of the construction costs, whichever is less. The
bond shall be kept in full force during the time the tower and/or communication
facility is in operation.
            2.   The bond shall be conditioned upon full indemnity to the city
should the facility become obsolete and the owner fails to remove the tower
and/or facility within six months of becoming obsolete, or in the event the
tower or facility falls into a state of disrepair.
      (4)   Small cell facilities - Standards and regulations. Personal
wireless telecommunication facilities will be permitted to be placed in right-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the city as attachments to existing utility
poles, alternative antenna structures, or city-owned infrastructure subject to
the following regulations as stated in Ordinance 2018-18.
   (B)   Utility substations. Every electrical substation, gas regulator
station, telephone exchange facility, sewage treatment plant, water storage
facility, antennas, transmitter or similar facilities shall be deemed a special
use, and shall conform to the following regulations:
      (1)   Every lot on which any such facility is situated shall meet the
minimum area and dimension requirements of the district in which it is located.
Every part of any such facility shall be located at least 30 feet from all lot
lines, or shall meet the district setback requirements, whichever is greater;
      (2)   In any residential district, the structure housing any such
facility shall be designed and constructed to be compatible with the
residential character of the area; and
      (3)   Every such facility shall be screened by close-planted shrubbery at
least ten feet in height and of sufficient density to block the view from
adjacent property. Furthermore, if the Code Official determines that the
facility poses a safety hazard (for example, if there are exposed transformers)
he or she shall require that a secure fence at least eight feet in height be
installed behind the planting screen.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2017-16, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 154.056 MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOMES.
   The following requirements are supplementary to other ordinances and
regulations of the city and are further supplementary to the statutes, rules
and regulations adopted by the State of Illinois, including but not limited to,
the Mobile Home Park Act, ILCS Ch. 210, Act 115, § 1, the Abandoned Mobile Home
Act, ILCS Ch. 210, Act 117, § 1, the Illinois Mobile Home Tiedown Act, ILCS Ch.
201, Act 120, § 2, and the Rules and Regulations adopted pursuant to those
Acts.
   (A)   Manufactured (mobile) homes - individual.
      (1)   All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be located only in the M-
H Zoning District. Only manufactured (mobile) homes that were in place on March
1, 1996 and that are replaced in accordance with division (A)(2) of this
section below are permitted outside of the M-H Zoning District.
      (2)   Existing manufactured (mobile) homes located outside the Mobile
Home (M-H) District may be replaced with another manufactured (mobile) home
provided a special use permit has been granted and all the following
requirements are met:
         (a)   It is replaced within 30 days of moving the original
manufactured (mobile) home;
         (b)   It does not exceed either the setbacks of the original
manufactured (mobile) home or the setbacks already established where there is
existing development; and
         (c)   The existing manufactured (mobile) home has been used as the
owner’s place of domicile immediately prior to its removal.
         (d)   The replacement manufactured (mobile) home must be used by the
owner as their permanent place of domicile.
      (3)   All replacement manufactured (mobile) homes shall be no more than
five years old and shall show proof of age by a title or other legal
documentation.
         (a)   All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be placed on a
manufactured (mobile) home stand consisting of a rock or concrete surface. The
surface shall be an appropriate length and width as to allow for installation
and removal of manufactured (mobile) homes.
         (b)   The manufactured (mobile) home stand shall also be furnished
with adequate supporting piers spaced a maximum of eight feet apart. The
underside of the manufactured (mobile) home must also be provided with four
inches of rock and an approved vapor barrier.
         (c)   All manufactured (mobile) homes shall be connected to all
available public utilities in accordance with all requirements for any
residential structures in the city.
         (d)   Manufactured (mobile) homes shall be skirted not more than 30
days after a new manufactured (mobile) home is approved.
      (4)   Manufactured (mobile) homes located in the M-H Zoning District
shall be utilized only as a dwelling unit for owner or renter occupancy.
   (B)   Manufactured (mobile) home parks and courts.
      (1)   After the effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or
corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct, or operate a manufactured
(mobile) home park within this city without first obtaining a license from the
Illinois Department of Public Health. CONDUCT OR OPERATE A MANUFACTURED
(MOBILE) HOME PARK shall include, but not necessarily be limited to supplying
or maintaining common water, sewer or other utility supply or service, or the
collection of rents directly or indirectly from five or more independent
manufactured (mobile) homes.
         (a)   Such license shall expire each year and a new license shall be
issued upon proper application and payment of the annual license fee provided
the applicant is in substantial compliance with the Rules and Regulations of
the Illinois Department of Public Health.
         (b)   In order to obtain a permit to construct a new manufactured
(mobile) home park the applicant shall file with the Illinois Department of
Public Health a written application and the necessary plan documents in
compliance with the latest adopted edition of the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act
and Code of the Illinois Department of Public Health.
         (c)   A manufactured (mobile) home park constructed prior to the
effective date of the amendatory 1987 Illinois Mobile Home Park Act but not
licensed by the Illinois Department of Public Health shall not require a
construction permit. A written application for an original license shall be
submitted to the Illinois Department of Public Health in compliance with the
latest adopted edition of the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act and Code of the
Illinois Department of Public Health.
         (d)   Every park shall be managed by a responsible individual whose
name, address and telephone number shall be on file at all times with the
Illinois Department of Public Health and whose duty it shall be to maintain the
park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition,
and shall be responsible, with the licensee, for any violation of the
provisions of this section and the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act and Code.
      (2)   Manufactured (mobile) home parks and/or courts shall be permitted
by a special use permit only and shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Shall be located on a tract of land not less than two acres;
         (b)   Shall contain at least two manufactured (mobile) homes;
         (c)   Minimum lot size and setback requirements. Individual
manufactured (mobile) home spaces shall be considered as lots and shall meet
the following requirements:
 
Minimum Lot Size and Setback Requirements
Minimum lot size:                                  6,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth:                                 100 feet
Minimum lot width:                                 50 feet
Minimum setback requirement:                       25 feet
from front lot line:                               20 feet
from rear lot line:                                10 feet
from side lot line:
Minimum distance to a building on an adjacent lot: 20 feet
 
         (d)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided per manufactured
(mobile) home.
         (e)   No access way may dead-end except as a cul-de-sac with
appropriate turn-around space for emergency vehicles as per the standards
required in the Troy Subdivision Ordinance.
         (f)   All manufactured (mobile) home parks shall be in full compliance
with the latest adopted edition of the Illinois Mobile Home Park Act and Code
of the Illinois Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.057 PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any district where municipally owned or other publicly owned buildings
are permitted, the following additional requirements shall be met:
   (A)   In any residential district all municipal or other publicly-owned
buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all property lines; and
   (B)   In any residential or commercial district, there shall be no permanent
storage of heavy construction or maintenance equipment (such as excavating,
road building, or hauling equipment), unless in an enclosed building or
enclosed within a solid wall or fence at least eight feet in height. Such
storage areas, maintenance yards, or storage warehouses shall be located at
least 25 feet from any front or side property line.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.058 KENNELS.
   (A)   The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum area of
three acres.
   (B)   Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest
dwelling, and at least 100 feet from any lot line.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.059 AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Farm animals. No barn, stable, shed, or other structure intended to
shelter farm animals (including, but not limited to, horses, cattle, hogs and
chickens) shall be erected closer than 300 feet to any existing dwelling or
closer than 200 feet to any lot line of residential property, whichever
distance is greater. Similarly, fences shall be erected or other means shall be
taken to prevent farm animals from approaching closer than 300 feet to any
existing dwelling or closer than 200 feet to any lot line or residential
property, whichever distance is greater.
   (B)   (1)   No agricultural equipment or commodities, including but not
limited to, baled crops, fertilizers, pesticides, or herbicides should be
stored outdoors and closer than 300 feet from any existing dwelling or 200 feet
from any residential lot line, whichever distance is greater.
      (2)   Such equipment or commodities that are stored completely within and
enclosed structure shall not be located closer than 100 feet from any
residential lot line.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.060 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, swimming pools, or for any
other purpose shall be arranged so as to confine the direct light rays away
from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of passing
motorists.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.061 PRIVACY SCREENING.
   (A)   Zoning districts abutting different districts. Where any commercial or
industrial zoning district or use abuts any residential zoning district or use,
or where any commercial zoning district or use abuts any industrial zoning
district or use, a privacy screen of city approved materials, whether natural
or man-made, must be provided by the property owner or developer that abuts the
already existing development or zoning district. The following regulations must
apply:
      (1)   The screen must be at least eight feet in height, provide ninety
percent density year round and be maintained to original specifications by the
property owner as long as the screen is a requirement;
      (2)   Natural materials may be six feet when planted but must be at least
eight feet and provide 90% density within three years of occupancy;
      (3)   All materials must be approved by the Code Official prior to
installation or the granting of an occupancy permit; and
      (4)   The following plants are suggested in order to assure compliance
with the natural privacy screen requirements:
         (a)   Pinus Strobus (Eastern white pine)
         (b)   Pinus Sylvestris (Scotch pine)
         (c)   Pinus Nigra (Austrian pine)
         (d)   Picea Pungens (Colorado green spruce)
         (e)   Taxus X Media (Anglojap Yew, Cultivar: “Hatieldii”, “Hicksii”)
         (f)   Thuja Occidentalis (American Arborvitae, Cultivar:
“Pyramidalis”).
   (B)   Outside storage in commercial and industrial districts. Outside
storage in any commercial or industrial district must be screened from view
from any private or public street, road or right-of-way. This does not include
sales lots used for selling boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, cars or
trucks or other similar display lots.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.062 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All adult entertainment establishments as defined in Chapter 5, Article III,
inclusive, of the City Ordinance must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Obtain a special use permit as described in §
154.141 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Initiate a community impact statement as described in the city
ordinance referenced above.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.063 DUMPSTER/TRASH DISPOSAL.
   (A)   All commercial and industrial uses may be required by the city to
provide an adequate on-site trash disposal dumpster.
   (B)   All existing residential structures that contain more than three units
may be required to provide on-site trash disposal dumpster. The dumpster shall
contain a minimum of one-half cubic yard capacity for each apartment unit.
   (C)   All newly constructed residential structures that contain more than
three units shall be required to provide on-site trash disposal dumpster. The
dumpster shall contain a minimum of one-half cubic yard capacity for each
apartment unit.
   (D)   On-site trash disposal dumpsters shall not be permitted in any R-1 or
R-2 use as the primary means of trash disposal.
   (E)   All on-site trash disposal dumpsters shall be screened from view, at
least one foot above the height of the dumpster.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.064 PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the planned development districts is to
provide a means of achieving greater flexibility in development of land in a
manner not always possible in conventional zoning districts; to encourage a
more imaginative and innovative design of land development; and to promote a
more desirable community environment. The City Council, upon recommendation by
the Planning Commission, may, by an ordinance adopted in the same manner as a
rezoning is approved, authorize a planned development district when the
proposed development or use of a specific tract of land or area warrants
greater flexibility, control and density than is afforded under the general
regulations of standard zoning districts. These planned development regulations
are not intended to allow excessive densities, or the development of
incompatible land uses, either within the development, or as the development
relates to the general neighborhood. The City Council may, upon proper
application, approve a planned development to facilitate the use of flexible
techniques of land development and site design, by providing relief from
conventional zoning standards in order to achieve one or more of the following
objectives:
      (1)   Site planning that better adapts to site conditions and its
relation to surrounding properties that would not otherwise be possible or
would be inhibited under the district regulations applicable to the property;
      (2)   Functional and beneficial uses of open space areas;
      (3)   Preservation of natural features of a development site;
      (4)   Creation of a safe and desirable living environment for residential
areas characterized by a unified building and site development program;
      (5)   Rational and economical in relation to public utilities and
services; and/or
      (6)   Efficient and effective traffic circulation, both within and
adjacent to the development site.
   (B)   Relationship of planned development districts to zoning map.
      (1)   A mapped district. The PD designation is not intended to be
attached to existing zoning districts as an overlay. The PD designation, as
detailed in this section, is a separate use district and may be attached to a
parcel of land through the process of rezoning and zoning map amendment.
      (2)   Plan approval required. It is the intent of this subchapter that no
development or redevelopment of the property encompassed by the PD designation
take place until an acceptable development plan has been reviewed and approved
in conformance with the requirements of this section, §§
154.140 through
154.143 and applicable subdivision regulations of the Subdivision Code.
   (C)   Coordination with §§
154.140 through
154.143 and applicable subdivision regulations of the Subdivision Code.
      (1)   When a planned development involves any subdivision activity, the
subdivision review and approval procedure requirements contained in the
subdivision regulations of the code of ordinances shall be carried out
simultaneously with the review of a planned development under this section. As
applicable, reference is made to requirements of the subdivision code of the
municipal code within this section. With regard to these references, the
subdivision code may contain the term “plat”, which under the PD district
requirements is intended to be synonymous with “plan” as appropriate.
      (2)   Since obtaining a PD district designation requires a map amendment
(rezoning), the requirements and procedures of §§
154.140 through
154.143 shall apply.
   (D)   Types of planned developments. An area approved for the PD designation
shall be assigned one of the following district classifications which shall be
considered a separate zoning district and subject to the specific restrictions
and limitations outlined in this section.
      (1)   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R). Planned developments
involving residential uses only.
      (2)   Planned Development - Business (PD-B). Planned developments
involving retail, service, and office commercial uses only.
   (E)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Planned Development - Residential (PD-R).
         (a)   Permitted uses shall be established in the conditions of the
chapter adopted by the City Council governing the particular planned
development-residential district. Specific uses may include those uses
designated as permitted or special uses in the R-1, R-2, or R-3 districts.
         (b)   In addition to those uses included above, the following uses may
be designated as permitted uses and established as such in the chapter
governing the particular planned development-residential district:
            1.   Patio dwellings;
            2.   Zero lot line residential developments.
      (2)   Planned Development - Business (PD-B). Permitted uses shall be
established in the conditions of the chapter adopted by the City Council
governing the particular planned development-commercial district. Specific uses
may only include those uses designated as permitted or special uses in the C-1,
C-2 or C-3 districts.
   (F)   Minimum planned development site size. The minimum site size for any
of the Planned Development districts shall be five acres. This minimum site
size may be waived by the City Council upon report by the Planning Commission
if it is determined that the use proposed is desirable or necessary in
relationship to the surrounding neighborhood or, if the City Council should
determine such waiver to be in the general public interest.
   (G)   Density and dimensional regulations and performance standards.
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   The approval of the development plan may provide for such
exceptions from the regulations associated with traditional zoning districts as
may be necessary or desirable to achieve the objectives of the proposed planned
development. No planned development shall be allowed that would result in:
            1.   Inadequate or unsafe vehicular access to the development;
            2.   Peak-hour traffic volumes exceeding the capacity of the
adjoining or nearby streets. Capacity shall be based on a street providing
“level of service D” as defined in the latest publication of Transportation and
Traffic Engineers Handbook, Institute of Transportation Engineers;
            3.   An undue burden on public parks, recreation areas, schools,
fire and police protection and other public facilities that serve or are
proposed to serve the planned development;
            4.   A failure to comply with the performance standards contained
in this section;
            5.   Other detrimental impacts on the surrounding area including,
but not limited to, visual and noise pollution.
         (b)   In addition to the above requirements, all planned developments
shall be subject to the review criteria established in division (G)(1)(a) of
this section. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to clearly
establish that the above requirements are met.
      (2)   Other codes. All requirements of other codes and ordinances of the
city (such as building code) shall be applicable.
      (3)   Planned Development-Residential (PD-R).
         (a)   Density. The density of residential development shall be
consistent with the intent of the original underlying residential district(s).
While the district regulations specifies upper limits to residential density,
density of a planned development may be limited to that which is established in
the original residential district or that is consistent and compatible with
nearby existing developed areas. Conversely, the density limits indicated in
the district regulations may be exceeded on portions of the site within a PD-
R district as long as the total site density limit is not exceeded. This is
referred to as “density transfer”. Additionally, the total site density may be
exceeded up to a limit, upon conclusion of the Planning Commission and the City
Council that the density bonus provisions contained in division (G)(3)(b)3 of
this section have been satisfied. This is referred to as “density bonus”.
         (b)   Calculation of density.
            1.   The computation of density shall be based on dwelling units
per net acre for the entire site.
            2.   To compute the number of dwelling units per net acre, 15% of
the gross acreage of the parcel shall be deducted and the net acreage divided
by the lowest minimum lot size of the underlying residential district. The
following provides an example of density calculation for a 20-acre tract in a
residential district with a proposed minimum lot size of 6,000 sq. ft.:
               20 acres x 43,560 square feet per acre = 871,200 sq. ft.
               871,200 sq. ft. - (871,200 x 0.15) = 740,520 sq. ft.
               740,520/6,000 sq. ft. min, lot size = 123 dwelling units
            3.   In situations where a proposed PD-R district overlaps two or
more dwelling districts, density shall be calculated separately for the
portions of the PD-R district in each of the original residential districts.
         (c)   Density bonus.
            1.   The Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may
approve an increase in density within a PD-R district, up to a maximum of 20%,
which shall be based on the precepts listed below. The density bonuses shall be
treated as additives and not compounded.
 
Maximum Percentage Increase Design Element
                            A minimum of an additional five percent of the net
                            development area devoted to common open space
10%                         (above the minimum requirement) and improved with
                            public pedestrian ways, bike paths, park land,
                            swimming pools, tennis courts, community centers,
                            club buildings, and the like.
                            Creative site designs and building groupings, that
                            take advantage of natural terrain and resolve
5%                          existing on-site and off-site water run-off and
                            erosion problems. The provision of storm drainage
                            retention as a site amenity is encouraged.
                            Variations in building design are permissible.
                            Creative use of landscape materials and the
5%                          provision of more extensive landscaping than would
                            otherwise be required under the landscaping
                            requirements found elsewhere in this chapter.
 
            2.   If density bonuses (increases) are requested under this
section, the applicant shall document all site amenities or improvements for
the village’s review and consideration.
         (d)   Development phasing. If the sequence of construction of various
portions of the development is to occur in stages, then the open space and/or
recreational facilities shall be developed, or legally provided for on a final
plat, in reasonable proportion to the number of dwelling units intended to be
developed during any given stage of construction as approved on a final plat by
the City Council. Furthermore, at no time during the construction of the
project shall the number of constructed dwelling units per acre of developed
land exceed the overall density per net acre established by the approved PD-
R district.
         (e)   Non-residential uses in PD-R developments. Non-residential uses
are limited to those specifically listed in the dwelling zoning districts. Such
non-residential uses shall be subject to all requirements for lot area, width,
height, yards and setbacks prescribed in the district in which the proposed PD-
R development is located.
         (f)   Common open space requirements.
            1.   Common open space shall comprise at least fifteen percent of
the gross area of the residential development or be of a size equivalent to one
acre for each one hundred persons of expected population of the development,
whichever is greater. For purposes of this subsection, the expected population
shall be determined by multiplying the total number of dwelling units times two
persons per dwelling unit.
            2.   The amount of required common open space may be reduced by an
amount equal to twice the total area of private balconies or patios. The
balconies or patios shall be accessible to individual dwelling units, consist
of at least sixty square feet of outdoor area, and have at least a horizontal
dimension of six or more feet. In no case shall the area devoted to common open
space be less than ten percent of the gross lot area.
            3.   Common open space shall be used for recreational, park or
environmental amenity purposes for the collective enjoyment of the occupants of
the development.
            4.   In addition to the above open space requirements, the
following regulates the use of this common open space in terms of physical
surface characteristics, size, location and physical improvements therein.
               a.   Of the required common open space, up to one-half of it may
be covered by water, flood plain, stormwater detention/retention facilities or
left in a natural state.
               b.   The area of each parcel of open space shall not be less
than 6,000 square feet in area or less than 30 feet in its smallest dimension.
In addition, at least 50% of the common open space shall be contiguous or
connected via pedestrian/bicycle paths.
               c.   To the extent practicable, common open spaces should be
distributed equitably throughout the development in relation to the dwelling
units that such common open space is intended to serve. The open space shall
not be isolated in one corner of a development, but shall be highly accessible
(physically and/or visually) to the residents of the development.
            5.   Where common open space is to be provided in a subdivided
residential development, the use, operation, and maintenance of areas for
common open space, common ground, and common buildings shall be guaranteed by
the establishment of a trust indenture providing for such by a subdivision
association or trustees. the indenture shall be approved by the City Attorney
prior to recording the indenture simultaneously with the recording of the final
plat.
         (g)   Perimeter buffer requirements.
            1.   Where a PD-R development proposes residential development
along the perimeter of the site, that is higher in density than that of an
adjacent dwelling district, there shall be a minimum 30 foot wide buffer area.
The buffer area shall be kept free of buildings or structures and shall be
landscaped or protected by natural features so that all higher-density
residential buildings are effectively screened from the abutting lower density
residential property.
            2.   Where a PD-R development abuts a commercial or industrial use
or district, there shall be a minimum 30 foot wide buffer area. This buffer
area shall be permanent and landscaped and/or otherwise provided with screening
(such as sight proof fencing) so as to effectively screen the commercial or
industrial use form the PD-R development.
         (h)   Payment for allocation. In addition to providing the required
areas of common open space within the residential development, the owner/
developer shall pay to the City the sum of $500 per dwelling unit. This payment
shall be allocated to one or more of the following accounts as determined by
the City Council: (1) a street improvement account; (2) a sewer plant capital
improvement account; or (3) a city enhancement (“street scaping”) account. This
payment shall be paid at the time of approval of the final plat of the
subdivision by the City Council. If the payment is not made to the city at such
time, the Mayor shall not sign the final plat for recording purposes.
      (4)   Planned Development-Business (PD-B).
         (a)   Site coverage. Total site coverage by uses permitted in the PD-
B districts shall be 70%, except as permitted to be exceeded in accordance with
division (G)(4)(b) below.
         (b)   Site coverage bonus. The Planning Commission may recommend and
the City Council may approve an increase in maximum site coverage from 70% up
to 90%. In order to qualify for this bonus, the development plan must
demonstrate compliance with four or more of the following performance criteria:
            1.   Incorporate storm drainage retention facilities as a site
amenity.
            2.   install storm drainage detention facilities underground.
            3.   Increasing parking lot landscaping by 50% more than otherwise
required.
            4.   Submitting for approval developments on tracts that are five
or more acres in size.
            5.   Design of principal access to the development tract at an
approved location that allows for shared access by an adjacent property.
            6.   Construction of separate-grade pedestrian and bicycle paths.
            7.   Providing for screened loading areas.
            8.   Demonstration of a development using innovative architectural,
site planning and land use design and of such quality as to set an excellent
example for subsequent development or redevelopment projects.
            9.   Any other performance criteria that further the goals,
objectives and policies of the Comprehensive Plan and that, in the opinion of
the Planning Commission and City Council warrant the approval of development
bonuses.
         (c)   Signage. Signage shall be in compliance with the city’s
ordinances relating to signs unless the applicant for a PD-B district
designation elects to submit a “comprehensive sign plan” in addition to the
submission of other required development plan documents. The Planning
Commission may recommend, and the City Council may approve, a comprehensive
sign plan and such plan shall be made part of the chapter approving the PD
district. This chapter may contain conditions, requirements or standards
regarding signs that may be stipulated by the City Council. Comprehensive sign
plans approved under this section shall be evaluated based upon the following
criteria:
            1.   Placement. All signs shall be placed where they are
sufficiently visible and readable for their function. Factors to be considered
shall include the purpose of the sign, its location relative to traffic
movement and access points, site features, structures and sign orientation
relative to viewing distances and viewing angles.
            2.   Quantity. The number of signs that may be approved within any
development shall be no greater than that required to provide project
identification and entry signs, internal circulation and directional
information to destinations and development sub-areas and business
identification. Factors to be considered shall include the size of the
development, the number of development sub areas, and the division or
integration of sign functions.
            3.   Size. All signs shall be no larger than necessary for
visibility and readability. Factors to be considered in determining appropriate
size shall include topography, volume of traffic, speed of traffic, visibility
range, proximity to adjacent uses, amount of sign copy, placement of display
(location and height), lettering style and the presence of distracting
influences.
            4.   Materials. Sign materials shall be compatible with
architectural and/or natural features of the project. This may be accomplished
through similarity of materials for sign structures and faces, the use of
complementary colors, similarity of architectural style or the use of
consistent lettering style and typography. A request for approval for a
comprehensive sign plan shall accompany the request for PD-B zoning
classification and shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
               a.   A site plan, depicting the proposed plan of development and
illustration of proposed sign locations;
               b.   Descriptions and drawings indicating size, qualities,
materials and illumination; and
               c.   A narrative description of the common theme for signage
within the development, how it relates to architectural and/or landscaping
elements of the development, and how the Comprehensive Sign Plan relates to
each of the criteria set forth in this section.
         (d)   Perimeter buffer requirements. Where a PD-B development abuts a
residential district, there shall be a minimum 50 foot buffer area between any
non-residential use and the adjacent residential district. This buffer area
shall be landscaped in accordance with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission.
         (e)   Minimum building setbacks. Building setbacks shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan for a PD-B development. Where a
commercial use abuts a dwelling district, the minimum building setbacks
established in the district regulations shall apply.
   (H)   Other development regulations applicable to PD districts. All PD
districts shall be subject to the requirements set forth in the city’s code of
ordinances, as amended from time to time, including but not limited to the
city’s Building Code, Subdivision Code, Utility Code, unless otherwise provided
herein or by variance granted by the appropriate municipal body.
   (I)   Dedication and reservation of land. Whenever a planned development
embraces all or any part of an arterial street, collector street, drainageway
or other public way that has been designated in the adopted Comprehensive Plan
or other official plans of the city, sufficient land shall be dedicated or
reserved on the development plan for the public improvements in a manner
similar to that required of all subdivisions as specified in the Subdivision
Code.
   (J)   Preliminary development plan procedure.
      (1)   Preliminary development plan submittal requirements. The
preliminary development plan submitted shall include the information required
by the Subdivision Code and Zoning Code regarding preliminary plats. In
addition to these submittal requirements, the following shall be submitted as
applicable:
         (a)   Gross and net acreage of tract;
         (b)   Building outlines (footprints) of all structures, except one-
family detached dwellings proposed on subdivided lots;
         (c)   Internal private circulation drives and parking areas, except
driveways associated with one-family detached dwellings proposed on subdivided
lots;
         (d)   Maximum number of dwelling units allowed per the original zoning
district or districts;
         (e)   Number of dwelling units proposed and number of bedrooms, when
parking requirements are based on bedroom count per dwelling unit;
         (f)   Number of off-street parking spaces required and proposed;
         (g)   The location, gross floor area of, and distance between
buildings and structures. Floor area for non-residential uses shall be
identified by use type;
         (h)   The proposed location, size, landscaping, and general use of
common ground, including recreational areas, plazas, and buffer areas.
Landscaping information shall include location and approximate size (at time of
planting) of all plant material by type (such as deciduous/coniferous trees,
ornamental trees, shrub masses and ground cover including grassed areas, ivies,
and the like). Landscaping within parking areas shall be included;
         (i)   The location and details of all retaining walls, fences and
earth berms;
         (j)   The location of all refuse collection facilities including
screening to be provided;
         (k)   Illustrative site cross-sections (two minimum) indicating edge
conditions and internal grade changes in relation to principal variations of
building elevations and site-lines to adjacent properties/structures;
         (l)   Typical building elevations of sufficient scale and detail to
illustrate building mass, exterior construction materials and signage if
applicable;
         (m)   Project report to include an explanation of the character of the
proposed development, verification of the applicant’s ownership or contractual
interest in the subject site and proposed development schedule; and
         (n)   The applicant may be required to provide such additional
clarification and/or detail of the site plan as determined by the Administrator
or the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Preliminary development plan review procedure. Except as
established by this section, the procedures and requirements for filing,
review, and approval of a preliminary development plan shall be the same as
those forth for preliminary plats in the Subdivision Code. The Planning
Commission may recommend approval, disapproval or approval with amendments,
conditions or restrictions with respect to the preliminary development plan.
   (K)   Public hearing on preliminary development plan and rezoning request. A
public hearing on the rezoning request and the associated preliminary
development plan shall take place before the Planning Commission in accordance
with the Zoning Code, §§
154.140 through
154.143.
   (L)   City Council action on preliminary development plan and rezoning
request.
      (1)   City Council action on the rezoning request shall be subject to the
provisions of the Zoning Code, §§
154.140 through
154.143.
      (2)   If the preliminary development plan is approved by the City
Council, it shall adopt a resolution approving the preliminary development
plan, with conditions as may be specified and authorizing the preparation of
the final development plan.
      (3)   Simultaneously with the approval of the preliminary development
plan, the City Council shall adopt an ordinance rezoning the site to the
appropriate PD district and the ordinance shall include, but not be limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Legal description of the development site;
         (b)   The planned district zoning classification approved;
         (c)   Reference to the resolution approving the preliminary
development plan and that authorizes preparation of the final development plan;
         (d)   A statement requiring approval of a final development plan and
plat (if applicable), by the City Council, prior to issuing building permits;
         (e)   PD-R developments: the number and type of dwelling units
authorized, including number of bedrooms per dwelling unit by type, and the
total square footage authorized for any nonresidential use permitted;
         (f)   PD-B developments: the total square footage authorized for all
commercial, office, and/or industrial uses;
         (g)   Building and structure height limitations;
         (h)   Minimum building setback requirements;
         (i)   Off-street parking requirements;
         (j)   An approved “Comprehensive Sign Plan” or proof of compliance
with the city’s ordinance on signs;
         (k)   Acreage and function of common open space.
   (M)   Effect of approval of preliminary development plan and period of
validity.
      (1)   All conditions imposed as a part of any planned development shall
run with the land and shall not lapse or be waived as a result of a subsequent
change in ownership of any or all of the area.
      (2)   Approval of the preliminary development plan by the City Council is
merely an authorization to proceed with the preparation of the final
development plan.
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary development plan shall be valid for a
period of two years from the date of City Council approval. If an application
for final plan approval for all or a geographic portion of the preliminary plan
has not been filed within the two year period, then a resubmission of the
preliminary development plan shall be required if the applicant intends to
pursue final plan approval. The City Council, upon recommendation from the
Planning Commission, may grant up to a one year extension, from the date that
the period of validity expired. The City Council may reject such resubmission
of the same development plan in light of new facts and circumstances relating
to the development plan.
      (4)   In no case shall a building permit be issued prior to final
development plan approval.
      (5)   At such time the period of validity has expired, the resolution
approving preliminary development plan shall become null and void. In the event
that the development plan involved rezoning all or a portion of the property
comprising the development, the City Council may initiate proceedings to rezone
the property to its original or other appropriate zoning district, in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of the Zoning Code, §
154.140 through
154.143.
   (N)   Final development plan procedure.
      (1)   Final development plan submittal requirements. The final
development plan shall include the required information in the Subdivision
Code, as applicable. In addition to these requirements, the following shall be
submitted.   
         (a)   The information required for the preliminary development plan,
except that it be in its final form;
         (b)   The final landscape plan with specific location of all plant,
material, specifying size and species.
      (2)   Compliance with approved preliminary development plan. The final
development plan shall be in substantial compliance with the approved
preliminary development plan. Modifications and refinements, resulting from the
final design process, may be approved. In no event shall any modification of
the development plan result in the following:
         (a)   A change in the use or character of the development;
         (b)   An increase in building or site coverage;
         (c)   An increase in the intensity of use (such as number of dwelling
units);
         (d)   An increase in vehicular traffic generation or significant
changes in traffic access and circulation;
         (e)   A reduction in approved open space or required buffer areas.
      (3)   Final development plan review and approval. The procedure for
reviewing and approving the final development plan shall be in accordance with
those set forth in the Subdivision Code.
   (O)   Recording of final development plan. After the final development plan
(and subdivision plat, if applicable), and other associated documents have been
approved by the City Council, the applicant shall record the final development
plan in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Code.
   (P)   Amendments to final development plan.
      (1)   Minor changes. Minor changes in the location, siting and height of
buildings and structures may be authorized by the Administrator if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final plan was
approved. No change authorized by this section shall cause any of the
following:
         (a)   A change in the use or character of the development;
         (b)   An increase in building or site coverage;
         (c)   An increase in the intensity of use (such as number of dwelling
units);
         (d)   An increase in vehicular traffic generation or significant
changes in traffic access and circulation;
         (e)   A reduction in approved open space or required buffer areas; or
         (f)   A change in the record plat.
      (2)   Plan amendments. All proposed changes in use, or rearrangements of
lots, blocks and building tracts, changes in the provision of common open
spaces, and changes that would cause any of the situations listed under
division (P)(1) of this section shall be subject to approval by the City
Council. In such event, the applicant shall file a revised development plan and
be subject to the requirements of this section as if it were an entirely new
application.
   (Q)   Failure to initiate construction after final development plan
approval.
      (1)   Period of validity. No approval of a final development plan shall
be valid for a period longer than two years from the date of approval unless
within such period a building permit is obtained and construction of a
development’s foundation is commenced.
      (2)   Extension. The City Council may grant a one year extension upon
written request of the original applicant if the application submitted is
substantially the same as the initially-approved application.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.065 ABOVE GROUND STORAGE TANKS.
   Any above ground storage tank, that is governed by the Gasoline Storage Act,
shall comply with the terms of that Act, the regulations adopted pursuant to
that Act, and all other applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules or
ordinances and regulations. Such above ground storage tanks shall be prohibited
in residential and mobile home zoning districts. A special use permit is
required for all such tanks; it shall be the applicant’s burden of proof to
demonstrate that alternative forms of storage are not practical or safe.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.066 EXTERIOR BUILDING DESIGN AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   All exterior building materials shall be of high durability and
quality, require low maintenance, and reflect and complement the construction
techniques, materials, craftsmanship and appearance of nearby buildings or
developments.
   (B)   Residential metal roofing materials such as 29-gauge concealed
fastener Standing Seam or other metal roofing materials of like kind and
quality are permitted.
   (C)   Residential metal siding materials such as 29-gauge Standing Seam or
other residential metal siding materials of like kind and quality are
permitted.
   (D)   Any exterior building materials for nonresidential uses shall be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance of any
building permit.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 154.067 INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area width and depth. In any district where individual
sewage systems are used in place of public sewage facilities, the minimum lot
area width and depth shall be subject to approval of the City Council, but
shall not be less than required for the district in which the use is to be
located or less than one acre in area, whichever is greater; or have less
frontage than 125 feet. When doubt exists with the City Council as to the
adequacy of the soil structure of the lot to properly accommodate an individual
sewage system, the City Council may require the property owner to obtain an
opinion from a registered engineer as to the size of lot required for an
individual sewage system to operate on the lot according to safe health
standards. If the findings of the engineer indicate that larger lots are
necessary, the City Council may require a lot size in excess of the minimum
area defined previously in this division.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge. There shall be no discharge of raw or improperly
treated sewage to the surface of the ground or to farm tiles, streams, rivers,
ponds, lakes, or other collectors of water. Improperly treated sewage is sewage
that does not meet the effluent requirements of the current Private Sewage
Disposal Licensing Act and Code published by the Illinois Department of Public
Health or sewage that comes directly from a septic tank or building sewer. A
private sewage disposal system shall not be located in areas where surface
water will accumulate.
   (C)   Applicable permits. In any district, applicable permits from the
Illinois Department of Public Health and/or any other regulating agency must be
submitted to the Code Official before any new construction building permits
will be issued from the city.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.068 ADULT USE CANNABIS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis
cultivation center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser
organization, dispensing organization or transporting organization.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility
operated by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds
to produce cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate
into a product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business
establishment or a community college licensed under the Community College
Cannabis Vocational  Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and
Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (B)   Adult-use cannabis.
      (1)   Purpose and applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
City of Troy, Illinois. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations
provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027) (Act), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and
the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
      (2)   Special use: Adult-use cannabis business establishment facilities,
as defined herein, require approval of a special use permit in the respective
district in which they are allowed, and shall be processed in accordance with §
154.141  (Special Uses) as provided herein.
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis facility components: In determining compliance
with §
154.141  (Special Uses), the following components of the adult-use cannabis
facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties:
         (a)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses
located within the vicinity of the subject property.
         (b)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage,
security installations/security plan and building code compliance.
         (c)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/
employees.
         (d)   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply.
         (e)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent
roadway capacity and access to such roadways.
         (f)   Site design, including access points and internal site
circulation.
         (g)   Proposed signage plan.
         (h)   Compliance with all requirements provided in division (C)(1)
through (C)(6) of this section, respectively, and as applicable.
         (i)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance
with §
154.141 (Special Uses).
   (C)   Cannabis facilities.
      (1)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower. Not permitted in any zoning
classification and no special use permits allowed.
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center. Not permitted in any zoning
classification and no special use permits allowed.
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
         (a)   Permitted only in C-2 or C-3 zoning classifications and with a
special use permit in accordance with §
154.141 (Special Uses);
         (b)   Only one dispensing organization shall be allowed to operate in
the City of Troy, Illinois;
         (c)   The dispensing organization may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act;
         (d)   The dispensing organization shall not allow any on-site
consumption in accordance with the Act; and
         (e)   The dispensing organization shall install building enhancements,
such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the
applicable special use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and customers
of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its environs.
Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific characteristics of
the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization and the site
on which it is located, consistent with the requirements of the Act.
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization. Not permitted in any
zoning classification and no special use permits allowed.
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization. Not permitted in any
zoning classification and no special use permits allowed.
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization. Not permitted in any
zoning classification and no special use permits allowed.
   (D)   Prohibition of cannabis public consumption and on-site consumption
facilities. All consumption of cannabis in public places is illegal in
accordance with the Act, and any on-site cannabis consumption facility
referenced in Section 55-25(3) of the Act shall not be permitted in any zoning
classification in the city, and no special use permits shall be allowed.
(Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 154.069 SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   This section aims to protect public health, safety, sanitation,
traffic control, hazardous waste control, pollution control, and other
specified circumstances concerning short-term rentals.
      (2)   Short-term rentals are distinct from bed and breakfast
establishments in that prepared meals are not provided and only one group of
patrons in 24 hours shall be allowed in a short-term rental.
      (3)   Short-term rentals are distinct from hotel or motel establishments
in that only one group of patrons in 24 hours shall be allowed in a short-term
rental. Further, hotel or motel establishments are land uses allowed only in
non-residential zoning districts.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to rent, offer for rent, or advertise for rent
a short-term rental without first obtaining a special use permit issued by the
city for the specific location.
      (2)   All short-term rentals shall meet the following:
         (a)   No rental or advertisement for rental for a period of time
shorter than 20 hours.
         (b)   No short-term rental may provide food or beverages to any guests
except pre-packaged food and drink items.
         (c)   The special use permit application shall identify what living
space within the principal structure is available for short-term rental. If
more than one living area is offered for short-term rental, those living areas
shall be specifically identified and numbered on the special use permit
application. While a separate special use permit application is not required
for each living area, the applicant shall not be allowed to exceed the maximum
number of short-term rentals identified in the special use permit application.
         (d)   Any short-term rental shall be subject to the hotel and motel
tax and associated requirements of §
36.023 (Hotel and Motel Use and Privilege Tax).
         (e)   Short-term rentals shall be inspected annually for compliance
with §
151.179 (Inspection).
         (f)   Short-term rental owners/operators shall be required to register
the rental dwelling with the city per the provisions of §
151.172 (Registration of Rental Housing Required).
         (g)   The special use permit application shall include owner and
property identification information, including emergency contact and insurance
information, to be provided to the Police Department.
         (h)   The maximum number of overnight occupants shall not exceed that
allowed per the Building Code.
         (i)   Off-street parking locations shall be identified on the special
use permit application.
         (j)   The applicant shall be responsible for confirming that the use
of the property and structure as a short-term rental is allowed by any
applicable covenants and restrictions. Approval of a special use permit by the
city shall not circumvent these covenants and restrictions.
         (k)   Short-term rentals must be owner-controlled, meaning that a
property owner may not rent the property to an individual (renter) and allow
the renter to utilize the unit as a short-term rental. The owner may manage the
property outright or contract an entity for professional management services so
long as the contracted entity is only contracted for said services and is not
leasing the property from the owner.
         (l)   If the property owner does not comply with all requirements
stated above or the stipulations noted in the special use permit, the city
reserves the right to revoke the special use permit.
   (C)   Special use permit criteria. In reviewing a special use permit
application, the Planning Commission shall consider and affirmatively ascertain
the following have been met:
      (1)   The proposed short-term rental has complied with all provisions of
division (B) above (short-term rental requirements).
      (2)   The proposed short-term rental will not cause a negative cumulative
effect when considered in conjunction with the effect of other short-term
rentals in the immediate neighborhood.
      (3)   The proposed short-term rental will not have a substantial adverse
impact on the use, enjoyment, or property values of adjoining properties.
      (4)   The proposed short-term rental will not harm the public health,
welfare, or safety of the community.
      (5)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to comply with §
154.141 (Special Use Permits).
(Ord. 2024-63, passed 12-16-2024)
SUPPLEMENTARY OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS
§ 154.080 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
this subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing parking/loading facilities.
      (1)   Destroyed structures. When an existing structure or use is damaged
or destroyed and subsequently repaired or rebuilt to the same square footage
prior to the damage, additional off-street parking and loading facilities need
not be provided, but parking/loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at
the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored.
      (2)   Additions to structures. Whenever any building, structure or use is
enlarged or expanded in any way as to increase the dwelling units, gross floor
area, seating capacity, and the like, additional parking and loading facilities
shall be required by the provisions of this section.
      (3)   Changes of use. Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed
to a different use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for such new use.   
      (4)   Changes of ownership. Whenever the ownership of an existing
structure is changed, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required herein for such new use.   
      (5)   Parking lot maintenance. At the owner’s expense, all newly
constructed or existing parking surfaces, ingress, egress and loading
facilities must be free of potholes, grass or other similar nuisances. All
newly constructed or existing lighting must be maintained to provide the
required light levels, and striping must be visible.   
      (6)   Annexation. If an existing parking area or lot is annexed into the
city, then it must comply with §
154.082 within five years of annexation.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.081 PARKING DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Spaces. 
      (1)   Every parking space shall conform to the following requirements
below. Such spaces shall be clearly designated by markings that delineate each
space and shall be re-laid or restored as often as necessary to maintain such
delineation, at the owner’s expense.
 
Minimum Parking Space Widths, Lengths and Vertical Clearance
Parking Type Space Width Space Length Vertical Clearance
90 degree    10 feet     19 feet      7 feet
60 degree    10 feet     19 feet      7 feet
45 degree    10 feet     19 feet      7 feet
Parallel     8 feet      22 feet      7 feet
Handicapped  16 feet     20 feet      7 feet
 
      (2)   Every parking space shall be situated so that no part of any parked
vehicle can overhang the right-of-way, aisle ways, public or private sidewalks
or property lines.
   (B)   Handicap parking spaces. The following minimum number of handicap
parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) and Illinois Accessibility
Code.
      (1)   Minimum number. If any parking is provided for employees or
visitors or both, the minimum number of accessible parking spaces to be
provided for environmentally limited persons is as follows:
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Provided Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                         Spaces
Total Off-Street Parking Spaces Provided Required Minimum Number of Accessible
                                         Spaces
1 to 25                                  1
26 to 50                                 2
51 to 75                                 3
76 to 100                                4
101 to 150                               5
151 to 200                               6
201 to 300                               7
301 to 400                               8
401 to 500                               9
501 to 1,000                             2% of the total number
Over 1,000                               20 plus one for each 100 over 1,000
 
      (2)   Location. Accessible parking spaces serving a particular building
shall be located on the shortest accessible route of travel from adjacent
parking to an accessible entrance.
      (3)   Dimensions and markings. Each parking space, except on-street
spaces, shall consist of a 16 foot wide parking space including a diagonally
striped access aisle. A high quality yellow paint recommended by the paint
manufacturer for pavement striping shall be utilized. Parking spaces and access
aisles shall have surface slopes not exceeding 1:50 (2%) in all directions.
      (4)   Signage. Accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved
for environmentally limited persons by providing an R7-8 (US Department of
Transportation standard) sign which contains the international symbol of
accessibility. Such signs shall exhibit the words “$250 Fine”. The fine amount
shall increase (or decrease) in accordance with any change in the state
statutes.Signs shall be vertically mounted on a post or wall at front center of
the parking space no more than five feet horizontally from the front parking
space and set a minimum of four feet and a maximum of nine feet from finished
grade to the bottom of the sign.
   (C)   Interior aisles. Aisles within parking lots in multi-family
residential, commercial, and industrial districts shall be sufficiently wide to
permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out of
parking spaces:
 
Aisle Widths
Parking Type: Width of Aisle:
90 Degree     24 Feet
60 Degree     18 Feet (one-way)
              24 Feet (two-way)
45 degree     13 feet (one-way)
              24 feet (two-way)
Parallel      24 Feet
 
   (D)   Access ways.
      (1)   General. Parking areas in the multi-family residential, commercial,
agricultural and industrial districts shall be designed so that ingress to and
egress from a parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the
public right-of-way.
      (2)   Conformance requirements. All entrance construction shall be in
conformance with the Illinois Department of Transportation manual, Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, (latest edition) and in
conformance with the Illinois Department of Transportation policy handbook,
Access to State Highways (latest edition).
      (3)   Placement of entrances.
         (a)   All access ways to any parking area shall be located to provide
a minimum of 30 feet of distance from the beginning of the driveway flare to
the edge of the adjacent intersecting road. At intersections where traffic
control devices are installed, the Code Official may increase this distance to
prevent traffic hazards.
         (b)   Entrances shall be located so that sufficient sight distance is
available to enable motorists to determine when gaps in the traffic stream are
sufficient for safe entry. In locations where entrances are located on opposite
sides of the street, alignment of entrances shall be undertaken to promote safe
vehicular turning movements.
         (c)   The distance between the beginning of the flare of a high
traffic volume generator and the rear edge of an adjacent roadway intersecting
a state highway shall be at least 100 feet. Where volume projections indicate a
need, sufficient distance from adjacent public road or property lines should be
allowed for the construction of a right or left turn lane.
         (d)   Every parking lot ingress and egress shall be aligned so that it
forms, as closely as possible, a right angle with the intersecting street.
      (4)   Access way widths.
         (a)   Agricultural, commercial, industrial and multi-family
residential zoning district entrances shall not be less than 24 feet wide and
shall be limited to a maximum of 35 feet wide measured at right angles to the
centerline of the drive unless two one-way drives of 12 feet are provided. The
widths measured shall be exclusive of all flares, at the right-of-way line,
and/or at the end of the radii curves.
         (b)   The radii for non-commercial driveways should be a minimum of
five feet with a maximum radius required to meet truck turning movements.
         (c)   Flares for commercial access facilities should range from a
minimum of 15 feet to a maximum of 40 feet. A curb length of at least three
feet shall be left undisturbed between the property line and the edge of the
entranceway flare to allow for the construction of an adequate island between
drives should the adjacent property owner desire to build an entrance.
         (d)   All driveways to off-street parking in single-family residential
(R-1, R-1A, and R-1E) and two-family residential (R-2) zoning districts shall
be a minimum of 12 feet wide and a maximum of 30 feet wide.
   (E)   Entrance islands. Entrance islands shall have a minimum dimension of
six feet wide by ten feet long. Where the island is less than 25 feet long or
ten feet wide, it must be outlined by curbing. Typically, the island should be
located between four feet and ten feet behind the curb for curbed pavement
sections or as required to provide a proper turning radius for the design
vehicle proposed to utilize the facility.
   (F)   Cross access.
      (1)   Cross access is defined as a commonly shared or used pedestrian way
or vehicular driveway that connects or serves two or more properties. The
purpose of cross access may be to reduce the number of entrance intersections
to an arterial or city street, to provide access via a signalized intersection,
to provide direct access between developments, to provide access to lots not
having road frontage, and the like.
      (2)   Cross access may be required as part of the site plan or
subdivision review procedure, zoning request, and/or special variance request
and shall be provided in accordance with the following conditions:
         (a)   At the time the site plan is submitted for review, the city will
identify adjacent existing land use and its potential for change, existing
traffic volumes and design features of the surrounding roadways, and the like,
in order to ascertain the need for cross access. If the city determines cross
access is required, the plan shall show the area included for cross access,
including the driveway approach, internal driving and parking lot aisles and
their extension to the property line(s) and the area(s) designated for
connection to the adjacent property of cross access.
         (b)   The area designated for cross access shall be kept free of all
landscaping, fences, trash enclosures, parking/loading spaces, and/or other
improvements except as required by the zoning ordinance. Any approved
improvements located in the areas designated for cross access shall be removed
by the developer who is required to construct the pavement connection.
   (G)   Lighting.
      (1)   Every off-street parking facility regularly utilized during
nighttime hours, shall be lighted to enable safe access to parked vehicles.
Such lighting must be erected on private property unless the Code Official
provides written permission for the lights to be located on the city right-of-
way.
         (a)   All parking and loading areas and walkways shall be illuminated
so as to produce a uniform minimum average illumination within such areas of
two footcandles of illumination measured at the ground level.
         (b)   Lighting fixtures or standards without cutoff-type luminaries or
with globe- style luminaries shall be no higher than 15 feet and shall have a
maximum illumination output of not more than 10,000 lumens.
         (c)   Lighting fixtures or standards with a cutoff-type luminaire
shall be no higher than 25 feet with a maximum average illumination of the
property of five footcandles measured at ground level over the site.
         (d)   Where parking and loading areas are adjacent to residential
areas, the maximum average illumination of the area between the rear building
wall line and the property line abutting a residential area shall be one foot-
candle measured at ground level over the site.
         (e)   At the property line abutting a residential area, the maximum
illumination of the property shall be no higher than one-tenth (0.1) foot-
candle.
         (f)   The correlated color temperature (CCT) for all exterior lighting
shall not exceed 3,200 Kelvin.
      (2)   Lights on commercial premises must not constitute a nuisance to
passing motorists. Such lights must not be similar to traffic control devices
(i.e. signals or flashing beacons). No flashing, oscillating or rotating lights
visible from any public highway may be placed on any building or structure
located within 200 feet of the street.
      (3)   Any light(s) utilized to illuminate any parking facility shall be
configured or shielded so as to confine direct light.
         (a)   Site lighting fixtures shall be compatible with the building
design and the adjoining landscape and shall not be used in such a manner as to
turn the building itself into “signage”.
         (b)   Site lighting shall be a concealed source, cut-off design.
         (c)   Site lighting shall not create glare that is directed toward or
reflected onto adjoining properties.
            (1)   Site lighting shall not create glare that is directed toward
or reflected onto streets or interior drives where such glare could negatively
impact vehicular or pedestrian safety.
            (2)   Except as may be provided elsewhere in this section, site
lighting shall at no time be directed upward, in a radiating and/or moving or
sweeping pattern, or at any angle which will light surfaces other than building
walls, parking or pedestrian areas, and landscaped areas, and shall not create
lighting patterns which will direct light toward residential areas.
         (d)   At the time of filing an application for any use, development,
amendment, or change as set out in division (A) above, a lighting plan for site
lighting shall be provided on a separate sheet. The following information shall
be submitted as part of the lighting plan:
            (1)   Manufacturer’s catalog cut sheet or other graphic and
narrative description of the light standards, fixture heads, and/or luminaries
with specification data.
            (2)   Photometric curves indicating both vertical and horizontal
candlepower distribution.
            (3)   A plan of the site superimposed with a grid of not more than
20 feet between light sources showing the calculated foot-candle levels at
average site grade at the center of each 20-foot grid.
      (4)   All site lighting shall be installed utilizing an underground
cable.
      (5)   No light standard shall be placed as a freestanding structure
within the parking area unless within a safety island if placed in said area or
shall be placed around the perimeter of the parking area. Landscaping within
ten feet of the light standard shall be not more than three feet in height.
      (6)   Any off-street parking or loading area used between 6:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. shall contain a system of lighting to the required illumination
standard. An average of fewer than four deliveries per month may be exempt from
this requirement.
   (H)   Curbing.
      (1)   A minimum of a six-inch tall continuous curb, exclusive of ingress/
egress points, shall be provided around the perimeter of all parking lots.
Curbing shall be full depth Portland cement concrete.
      (2)   All interior landscaped areas provided within parking areas shall
be raised and curbed.
   (I)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be provided along the perimeter of the building,
adjacent to drive aisles to and around patron parking areas and employee
parking areas.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be concrete and a minimum of five feet wide.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.082 PARKING SURFACES.
   All newly constructed off-street parking areas or parking lots shall be
striped, graded and improved with either asphalt or concrete to the following
specifications:
   (A)   Surface: Two-inch deep (compacted thickness) hot mix asphalt surface
course on two-inch deep (compacted thickness) hot mix asphalt binder course
      Sub-base: Six-inch deep (compacted thickness) crushed stone (CA-6)
      Improved sub-grade: May be lime modified soil layer (12-inch compacted
thickness) or thicker crushed stone layer as recommended by a geotechnical
engineer to provide a stable sub-grade
   (B)   Surface: Six-inch deep Portland cement concrete
      Sub-base: Six-inch deep (compacted thickness) crushed stone (CA-6)
      Improved sub-grade: May be lime modified soil layer (12 inches compacted
thickness) or thicker crushed stone layer as recommended by a geotechnical
engineer to provide a stable sub-grade.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.083 STORMWATER DETENTION.
   Stormwater detention for parking lots shall follow the provisions in
Chapter 156.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.084 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   (A)   Residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings in any residential zoning
district shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling. Each parking space
accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be unobstructed so that no vehicle
need be moved in order to allow another vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
      (2)   No personal or company vehicles shall be parked on any yard that
abuts a street, except on a driveway. When any of these vehicles are parked in
any rear yard or side yard abutting a lot, such parking shall have access by
means of an approved driveway consisting of at least four inches of crushed
stone.
      (3)   All parking spaces accessory to permitted non-dwelling uses in the
residential zoning district generally shall be located on the same lot as the
use served. However, by special use permit, such parking facilities may be
located on another parcel within 200 feet of the use served. No vehicle
exceeding one ton cargo capacity shall be parked anywhere in a residential
district (except for normal loading, unloading and service calls). This
includes on-street and on private lots unless a special use permit has been
obtained.
   (B)   Agricultural, commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   Required parking spaces accessory to any permitted use in any
agricultural, commercial or industrial district shall be located within 200
feet of the use served, if not located on the same lot.
      (2)   No parking space accessory to any use in an agricultural,
commercial or industrial district shall be located in any residential district
except by special use permit.
      (3)   In any agricultural, commercial or industrial district, off-street
parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively
if the total number of spaces located together is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use, and if all regulations governing the
location of parking spaces in relation to the use served are observed.
   (C)   Mixed-use districts; residential uses.
      (1)   Parking in the rear yard is encouraged and may be required when
feasible.
      (2)   All off-street parking shall be designed with a clearly marked and
safe path from the parking area to a building entrance.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022; Ord. 2023-43, passed 8-7-
2023)
§ 154.085 LANDSCAPING OF PARKING LOTS.
   In order to reduce heat and glare and minimize the loss of natural
vegetation common to the construction of parking facilities, landscaping shall
be provided and maintained in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   A landscaping plan, either as a separate document or as an element of
a more inclusive development plan, shall accompany every application and set of
plans and include the following:
      (1)   Perimeter buffer strip. A strip of land at least six feet wide
abutting and paralleling the perimeter of the off-street parking lot shall be
landscaped. Such landscaping shall include grass, ground cover, and/or other
landscape treatment, excluding paving, and one medium-size canopy tree, or if
space is limited, one small-size canopy tree, for every 50 linear feet or major
fraction thereof.
         (a)   In C-1, C-2 and C-3, a planting strip of ten feet, not including
sidewalks, shall be provided and maintained within the required front yard per
§
154.032 and shall separate vehicle parking and drive areas from any public or
private street or right-of-way.
         (b)   Required front yards. Landscaping requirements shall include
grass, ground cover, and/or other landscape treatments, and shall include at
least one medium-size canopy tree for every 50 feet of frontage of any public
or private street right-of-way. Care should be taken with the placement of
these trees so they do not obstruct the view of traffic or interfere with the
flow of traffic in any way.
      (2)   Perimeter parking spaces. Rows of parking spaces adjoining the
perimeter of the parking lot having fewer than 25 (24 and less) parking spaces
need not be interrupted by a landscaping island. Rows of parking spaces
adjoining the perimeter of the parking lot having 25 or more parking spaces
shall be interrupted by the intrusion of a landscaping island; no greater than
25 contiguous, side-by-side parking spaces shall be permitted. Each landscaping
island shall be a minimum of six feet wide and a minimum of 20 feet deep.
      (3)   Interior parking spaces.
         (a)   Interior parking rows, parking rows that are not adjacent to the
parking lot perimeter, shall have landscaping island at each end of the parking
row. Interior parking rows having 15 or more contiguous side-by-side parking
spaces shall be interrupted by the intrusion of a landscaping island; no more
than 24 contiguous, side-by-side parking spaces shall be permitted. Parking
islands shall be a minimum of six feet wide and a minimum of 20 feet in length
if for a single parking row or not less than 40 feet if for two contiguous,
interfacing, parallel rows.
         (b)   The landscaping of the islands shall include grass, ground
cover, and/or other landscape treatment, excluding paving, and include at least
one small-size canopy tree per island. Proper drainage shall be provided for
each landscaped parking island.
   (B)   Every landscaping plan shall at least include the following
information:
      (1)   The proposed type, amount, size and spacing of all plantings,
including trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
      (2)   The proposed size, construction materials and drainage of
landscaped islands; and
      (3)   A sketch indicating the proposed spatial relationships of
landscaped areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian
movement.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.086 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking and loading spaces required by this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   Strip centers and buildings containing mixed uses will require a
minimum of one parking space for every 300 square feet of floor area. These
sites will ultimately be evaluated based on actual uses. Parking calculations
will be filed at the Building and Zoning Department and building permits will
be issued after parking is determined adequate for the actual uses in the
center.
   (B)   If, in computing the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this section, the calculation results in the requirement of a fractional space,
a fraction of less than one-half may be disregarded, while a fraction of one-
half or more shall be counted as one space.
   (C)   If, in computing the number of parking spaces required by this
section, the gross floor area for a specific use is less than that identified
in the calculation formula, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall divide
the gross floor area by the area indicated in the calculation formula and
multiply the result by the required number of spaces.
      (1)   Example 1: fast food restaurant - 99 person capacity with 12
employees
            Refer to §
154.087 Commercial and Institutional
            1 space per every 3-person capacity plus 1 space per every 3
employees
            (99 ÷ 3) + (12 ÷ 3) = 37 spaces required
      (2)   Example 2: fast food restaurant - 297 person capacity with 27
employees
            Refer to §
154.087 Commercial and Institutional
            1 space per every 3 person capacity plus 1 space per every 3
employees
            (297 ÷ 3) + (27 ÷ 3) = 108
   (D)   If, in reviewing the uses and zoning districts below, a particular use
is not found, the Building and Zoning Administrator, at their discretion, may
bring the use to the Planning Commission to determine the parking requirement.
   (E)   For the purpose of calculating parking requirements, vanpool, carpool,
and car-sharing parking spaces shall not count against the maximum parking
requirement.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.087 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   This section divides specific uses of property into general zoning
classification groups. The minimum number of off-street parking spaces required
for each use of a specific parcel of property, shall be determined by
identifying the classification group to which each use belongs, and performing
the calculation identified for that specific group. The Code Official may
require additional spaces.
Residential
Type of Use                             Parking Spaces Required
Single-family residential, two-family
residential (villas/duplexes), and      Two spaces per unit
mobile homes (Zones R-1, R-1A, R- 2, M-
H)
Multi-family residential (Zone R-3)     Two spaces plus one space for every two
                                        units for visitors
Single-family residential (Zone R-1E)   Three spaces per unit
Boarding houses, rooming houses,        One space for each sleeping room plus
dormitories, and fraternity houses      one space for every two units for
which have sleeping rooms               visitors
Commercial and Institutional
                                        Five spaces per 1,000 square feet of
Animal hospitals, kennels, and groomers total gross floor area with a minimum
                                        of four parking spaces
                                        One space for every 800 square feet of
Automobile repair stations              floor area and one space for each
                                        employee
Automobile salesrooms, wholesale        One customer parking space for every
stores, machinery or other large item   400 square feet of floor area and one
sales, and other similar uses           space for each employee
Automobile service stations             Two spaces for each service stall or
                                        service bay
Automobile washing facilities           One space for each employee with a
                                        minimum of two spaces
Barber/beauty shops and other personal  Three spaces for each operator station
care businesses
Banks, financial institutions, post     One space for every 200 square feet of
offices, government uses, and other     floor area and one space for each
similar uses                            employee
                                        One space for every two beds and one
Hospitals                               space for each staff doctor and one
                                        space for each two employees
                                        One space per sleeping room and one
Hotels, motels                          space for each employee and one space
                                        for every 100 square feet used for
                                        restaurants, or similar purposes
Gas station convenience/convenience     One space for every 300 square feet of
stores                                  floor area
Dry cleaners and laundromats            One space for each washing or dry
                                        cleaning machine
                                        One space for every 350 square feet of
Libraries, museums, and art galleries   total gross floor area with a minimum
                                        of four spaces required
Medical offices, dental offices, urgent Three spaces for every examination or
care, and clinics                       treatment room and one space for each
                                        employee
Sanitariums, homes for the aged,
nursing homes, children's homes, and    One space for each two beds
similar uses
Offices, public or professional         One space for every 150 square feet of
administration, or service buildings    floor area with a minimum of four
                                        spaces
Restaurants - including fast food,      One space for each three-person
drive-ins and sit-downs, and other      capacity and one space for each
establishments with liquor licenses     employee
Restaurants - drive-through only        One space for a visitor plus one space
                                        for each employee
                                        One space for every 200 square feet of
Restaurants - carry out                 floor area and one space for each
                                        employee
Retail, service, and other commercial   One space for every 300 square feet of
stores not noted above                  floor area
Industrial
Manufacturing, storage uses,
warehousing and wholesaling
establishments, parcel delivery,        Two spaces per every three employees
freight/truck terminals, and similar    using the maximum number of employees
uses                                    scheduled to work any one shift. Add
Concrete mixing plants                  one stall for each motor vehicle used
                                        in the business and maintained on the
                                        premises
Contractor and construction yards


Schools
Nurseries, preschools, daycare centers, One space for every 400 square feet of
and similar uses                        floor area and one for each employee,
                                        but not less than six for the building
Elementary and junior high schools      One space per five students based on
                                        design capacity
High schools
Vocational or trade schools             One space per three students based on
Business, art, dance, or commercial     design capacity plus one space per
schools                                 staff member
Colleges, junior colleges, and
universities
Recreation
Shooting and archery ranges and skating One space per 250 square feet of total
rinks                                   gross floor area with a minimum of four
                                        parking spaces
                                        Six spaces for each alley or lane plus
Bowling alleys                          one additional space for every 100
                                        square feet used for a restaurant,
                                        cocktail lounge, or similar use
                                        One space per three sanctuary or chapel
Churches, chapels, temples, and other   seats plus one space for each employee
places of religious assembly            plus one for every 300 square feet of
                                        "other" floor areas
Recreational and community centers      One space per 200 square feet of total
                                        gross floor area
Health clubs, fitness centers,          One space per 250 square feet of total
gymnasiums, and spas                    gross floor area with a minimum of four
                                        parking spaces
Arcades and amusement halls             Ten spaces per 1,000 square feet of
                                        total gross floor area
Billiard and pool halls, convention and Fifteen spaces per 1,000 square feet of
exhibition halls, dance halls, meeting  total gross floor area
halls, and similar uses
Amusement establishments including      Three spaces per 1,000 square feet of
water parks, batting cages, go-carts,   total gross floor area plus one parking
kiddie carts, and miniature golf        space per 3,000 square feet of occupied
courses                                 land area with a minimum of four spaces
Swimming pools                          One space per five people based on
                                        design capacity
Public parks and playgrounds, athletic  One space per 1,000 square feet of
fields, forest preserves, grounds for   total gross floor area plus one parking
noncommercial recreation clubs and      space per 5,000 square feet of occupied
courts, and similar uses                land area
Indoor movie theaters                   One space per every 2.5 seats provided
Auditoriums, stadiums, racetracks,      One space per three seats based on
exhibition grounds, fairgrounds, and    design capacity
similar uses
Golf driving ranges                     One space per tee box
                                        Five spaces for each hole, one for each
                                        employee, and one space for every 100
Golf courses - public or private        square feet of area used for a
                                        restaurant, cocktail lounge, or similar
                                        purpose
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2020-15, passed 6-15-2020; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-
2022)
§ 154.088 OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   All retail and commercial service uses shall provide the following
loading spaces.
      (1)   Up to 10,000 square feet of floor area: one space;
      (2)   More than 10,000 square feet: one space plus one additional space
per 50,000 square feet of floor area more than 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   All industrial facilities shall provide the following loading spaces.
 
Square Feet         Number of Required Loading Spaces
0-20,000            One space
20,001-50,000       Two spaces
50,001-90,000       Three spaces
Greater than 90,000 Three spaces plus one additional space per 50,000 square
                    feet of floor area in excess of 90,000
 
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.089 DESIGN REQUIREMENT FOR LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   Every loading space shall conform to the following requirements below,
exclusive of any aisle or maneuvering area that may be required. Such spaces
shall be clearly designated by markings that delineate each space, and shall be
re-laid or restored as often as necessary to maintain such delineation.
      (1)   Minimum loading space width   12 feet.
      (2)   Minimum loading space length   50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum vertical clearance      15 feet.
   (B)   Requirement for access. Every off-street loading space shall have a
safe means of vehicular access and shall be located on the same parcel of land
as the use is served. It shall not be located closer than 50 feet to an
intersection of the right of way of two or more streets.
   (C)   Requirements for loading area surface. All newly constructed off-
street loading areas shall be improved with either of the following:
      (1) Surface: Two-inch deep (compacted thickness) hot mix asphalt surface
course on four-inch deep (compacted thickness) hot mix asphalt binder course
         Sub-base: Six-inch deep (compacted thickness) crushed stone (CA-6)
         Improved sub-grade: May be lime modified soil layer (12 inches
compacted thickness), or thicker crushed stone layer as recommended by a
geotechnical engineer to provide a stable sub-grade.
      (2)   Surface: Six-inch deep reinforced Portland cement concrete
         Sub-base: Six-inch deep (compacted thickness) crushed stone (CA-6)
         Improved sub-grade: May be lime modified soil layer (12 inches
compacted thickness), or thicker crushed stone layer as recommended by a
geotechnical engineer to provide a stable sub-grade.
   (D)   Requirements for buffer strips. No loading space designed for vehicles
exceeding a two-ton cargo capacity, shall be developed closer than 50 feet to
any lot line in any residential district, unless such loading space is
completely enclosed by a wall, a solid fence, or a privacy screen as described
in §
154.061.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 154.090 REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVE-THROUGHS.
   (A)   All drive-through establishments shall provide stacking spaces as
follows:
      (1)   Four spaces from the order point to (and including) the service
window (closest window to the order point if there are two);
      (2)   Six spaces prior to and including the order point;
      (3)   When there are two order points, stacking spaces prior to the order
point may be shared, but ten shall be required;
      (4)   In instances where ordering is done remotely and there is no on-
site order point, four stacking spaces shall be provided from the service
window, including the space at the service window;
      (5)   When ordering is done at the service window, a minimum of six
stacking spaces shall be provided, including the space at the service window;
      (6)   All stacking spaces shall be measured at 19 feet in length;
      (7)   All spaces shall be provided on-site and may not obstruct cross-
access easements, block ingress and egress points, drive aisles, or pedestrian
walk paths.
   (B)   An escape lane measuring a minimum of 12 feet wide shall be provided
adjacent to the drive-through stacking lane(s). When there are two order
points, the escape lane shall be adjacent to the outermost lane.
   (C)   All drive-through establishments shall provide adequate screening,
buffering and/or sound abatement to minimize excessive noise and spill-over
light.
      (1)   Noise level shall be 1.5 decibels or less at all property lines.
   (D)   No stacking space shall be allowed to block parking.
   (E)   Other drive-through facilities shall provide stacking spaces as
follows:
Type of Use/Activity Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From and Including
Type of Use/Activity       Minimum Stacking Spaces    Measured From and
                                                      Including
Automated teller machine   2                          Teller machine
(ATM)
Automobile repair and      2 per service bay          Bay entrance
service
Car wash (automatic)       3                          Bay entrance
Car wash (full service)    10                         Bay entrance
Daycare center/school      6                          Building entrance
Financial institution      4                          Teller window
Gas station                2 per gas pump island      Nearest pump including
                                                      pump
Retail sales and service
(drug store, dry cleaning, 5 per lane                 Agent window
and the like)
Unlisted uses              3 per window, bay, station Window, bay, station
 
(Ord. 2022-14, passed 4-18-2022)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 154.100 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The requirement imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use of
land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible
with the predominant character of each of the various residential, commercial,
and industrial districts. Lots, structures, and uses of land or structures that
do not conform to the requirements of the district in which they are located
impede appropriate development. For example, non-conformities are frequently
responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the over-taxing of
parking facilities, the emission of noxious fumes or excessive noise, and/or
the lowering of property values. The regulations in this subchapter are
intended to alleviate such existing/potential problems by encouraging the
gradual elimination of non-conformities.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.101 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size
requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in the manner
indicated at divisions (B) and (C) of this section if it:
      (1)   Is of record on the date of the adoption or amendment of this
chapter;
      (2)   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting
tracts of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such
lot was prohibited by the applicable zoning code or other ordinances; and
      (3)   Is at least 50 feet wide.
   (B)   Residential. On any existing non-conforming lot located in any
district, any permitted structures may be erected, provided all the bulk (see
definitions) and setback regulations of the particular district are observed.
If the bulk and setback regulations cannot be met then a variance provided for
in §
154.158 must be obtained.
   (C)   Other districts. On any existing non-conforming lot located in the
Commercial or Industrial Districts, any structure permitted in the particular
district may be erected if the bulk and setback requirements of that district
are met. If the bulk and setback regulations cannot be met then a variance
provided for in §
154.158 must be obtained.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.102 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful structure which exists on the date of the enactment or amendment
of this chapter, but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter
because of restrictions on lot size, height, setbacks, lot coverage, or other
characteristics of the structure, or its location on the lot, may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Enlargement, alterations. No such structure shall be enlarged or
altered in any way which increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   Relocation. No such structure shall be relocated unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   (C)   Reconstruction. Any structure (residential, commercial or industrial)
destroyed or damaged may be reconstructed provided it meets the following
regulations:
      (1)   The new structure shall not exceed the square footage of the
original structure;
      (2)   The setback requirements of the new structure shall not be less
than the setback of the original structure; and
      (3)   Construction of the new structure must begin within one (1) year
from the date the damage or destruction occurred.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.103 NON-CONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the date of the enactment
or amendment of this chapter, but would not be allowed under the terms of this
chapter, such a use may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a non-conforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, relocation. No structure
housing a non-conforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No non-conforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed to be devoted to such use, nor shall
the non-conforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (B)   Change of use. A non-conforming use occupying a structure shall not be
changed except to a use permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Discontinuance of use. When a non-conforming use of a structure, or of
a structure and premises in combination, is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the non-conforming use
shall not thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government action
and without any contributing fault by the non-conforming user shall not be
counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.104 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the date of the adoption or amendment of
this chapter that would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may
lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A non-conforming use of land
shall not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No non-conforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
part, unless, upon relocation, such use will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it will be located.
   (C)   Change of use. A non-conforming use of land shall not be changed
except to a use that is permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for
a period of 12 consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district
regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in calculating
the length of discontinuance.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.105 OPEN LAND, NON-CONFORMING USE.
   A non-conforming use not enclosed in a building or structure, or one in
which the use of the land is a use exercised principally out-of-doors and
outside of a building or structure shall after three years from the date of
notification become a prohibited and unlawful use and shall be discontinued.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.106 NON-CONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this Article shall not apply to any change in an existing
structure or to any change in the use of structure or of land for which a
permit was issued prior to the enactment of this chapter or any pertinent
amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit is carried
out and completed with diligence.
(Ord. passed - - )
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.120 CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The office of Code Official of this municipality is hereby
established. The Code Official shall be the executive head of this office.
   (B)   Duties. The Code Official is hereby authorized and directed to
diligently administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      (1)   To review applications pertaining to land, structures and the uses
of land and/or structures;
      (2)   To supervise inspections of land, structures, and the uses of land
and/or structures to determine compliance with this chapter, and where there
are violations, to initiate appropriate action to secure compliance;
      (3)   To receive and file all applications for amendments and special use
permits;
      (4)   To maintain up-to-date records of this chapter including, but not
limited to, district maps, special use permits, variances, interpretive
decisions of the Planning Commission and the Zoning Hearing Officer,
amendments, and all applications related to any of these matters;
      (5)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the City Council at least once each year;
      (6)   To cause copies of this chapter (including the district map) and
any amendments thereto to be printed from time to time, as necessary; and
      (7)   To provide information to the general public on topics related to
this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.121 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No lot or structure or part thereof that has been created, developed,
erected, enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed after the effective
date of this chapter shall be used or occupied until a building permit has been
issued. The Code Official shall issue no building permit unless he or she
determines, by inspection, that the lot or structure as completed, and the
proposed use thereof, conforms to all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.122 PROCEDURES UPON VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Official determines, by inspection or by other
means, that reasonable grounds exist for believing that any lot, structure, or
use is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall so notify the responsible
party in writing, and shall institute appropriate measures to secure
compliance.
   (B)   Corrective action order. To secure compliance with this chapter, the
Code Official may issue a corrective action order. Such order shall be deemed
properly served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot,
structure, or use if it is served upon such party personally, sent be
registered mail to his last known address, or posted in a conspicuous place on
or about the affected premises. Corrective action orders shall include:
      (1)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement of what constitutes the violation;
      (3)   An outline of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      (4)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      (5)   The date by which any appeal of the correction order must be filed
with the Zoning Hearing Officer, a statement of the procedure for so filing,
and a statement that the failure to file an appeal shall be considered as a
final decision of the Zoning Hearing Officer;
      (6)   A statement that failure to abide by a corrective action order
constitutes a separate violation of this chapter; and
      (7)   A statement of the penalties attached to any violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Stop work order.
      (1)   Whenever any building or structure, including fixtures, is
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any
building or structure, or land, is used in violation of this chapter, the Code
Official may order that such work be stopped immediately.
      (2)   Stop work orders can also be issued to any person, firm or
construction site who allows its premises and/or any other adjacent premise,
property, street or sidewalk, to become unsightly due to trash, nails, sand,
rock, gravel, dirt, mud, building materials or any other substance likely to
cause unsightly conditions or injure any person, vehicle or animal.
      (3)   The Code Official’s stop-work order may be served on any person
engaged in or responsible for such work or use, or may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or about the affected premises. Failure to abide by a
stop-work order shall be unlawful and deemed a separate violation of this
chapter.
      (4)   Any person served with a stop-work order related to a violation of
this chapter, may appeal such stop-work order to the Zoning Hearing Officer.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.123 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the Code
Official determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent peril
to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing, any
necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition. The Code Official
shall take no such action until he or she has consulted with the City Attorney.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.124 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the Code
Official. The Code Official shall record such complaints, immediately
investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective measures.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.125 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   All final decisions of the Zoning Hearing Officer shall be subject to
judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Review Law,
and all amendments and modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
(Ord. passed - - )
SPECIAL USES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 154.140 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Planning Commission of this municipality is hereby established in
accordance with Illinois law. See §§
33.60 through
33.67.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.141 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   This chapter divides this municipality into various districts, and
permits in each district only those uses which are clearly compatible with one
another. It is recognized, however, that there are special uses which, because
of their unique characteristics, can only be classified in any particular
district upon consideration in each case of the impact of those uses upon
neighboring land and uses, and for the public need for the particular uses at
the particular location. Such uses fall into three (3) categories:
      (1)   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with public
interest;
      (2)   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give to unique problems with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property, public facilities, or the city as a whole; and
      (3)   Uses, either public or private, that because of past or present
conditions, need special consideration.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Every application for a special use shall be filed on forms
provided by the Building Inspector who shall review the application and
initiate a permanent record thereof.
      (2)   In addition to the required application form, the Building
Inspector shall require the applicant to submit a site plan, drawn to scale,
showing the actual ground area, height and bulk of all existing and proposed
buildings and structures, the lot lines and dimensions, the location of any
signs, easements, underground utilities, septic tanks, tile fields, and water
wells; the names and locations of adjoining streets; and the location of
driveways and off-street parking areas in relation to those streets.
      (3)   After the final site plan has been completed and approved, it shall
become a permanent site plan and shall not be modified, nor shall any additions
be made thereto, except with the applicable provisions of this section.
      (4)   The Building Inspector shall promptly forward copies of the
application form and all attachments and relative documentation to the Chairman
and members of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on any
application for a special use permit not later than 30 days after its filing.
At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person
or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (D)   Notice. 
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to the applicant and to every owner of
property adjacent to the premises for which the special use permit is
requested; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the special use permit is requested,
and the nature of the proposed special use.
   (E)   Standards for issuance. The Planning Commission shall not make a
recommendation to the City Council to grant any special use permit unless, in
each specific case, the Planning Commission has found that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public’s health, safety, morals, comfort
or general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designated as to minimize traffic congestions in the public streets;
      (6)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to protect any
facilities near the proposed special use, such as a school or nursing home,
that may require special protection.
      (7)   The special use shall in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations may in each instance be modified by the City Council pursuant to
the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
      (8)   The special use, as conditioned, is in keeping with the general
purposes of this chapter and the Troy Growth Management Plan.
   (F)   Finding of fact, recommendation.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the
application for special use permit by simple majority vote.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall submit such recommendation, including
the reason or reasons for the recommendation, in writing to the City Council
within a reasonable time, but in no event shall that recommendation be
submitted more than 30 days after the public hearing on the application for
special use permit.
      (3)   The recommendation so submitted, shall be accompanied by findings
of fact referring to any exhibits containing plans and specifications for the
proposed special use, copies of which shall remain a part of the permanent
record of the Planning Commission, and specifying the following:
         (a)   The extent to which the proposed special use departs from the
zoning and subdivision regulations of the city;
         (b)   The conformance or nonconformance of the proposed special use
with the standards for issuance section;
         (c)   The relationship and the compatibility of the proposed special
use to adjacent properties and neighborhoods; and
         (d)   The effect of the proposed special use on the development
pattern, tax base, and economic well being of the city.
      (4)   (a)   Special conditions, if any, shall be contained within the
recommendation, but clearly set forth in a conclusion or a statement separate
from the Planning Commission’s findings.
         (b)   In recommending that a special use permit be granted, the
Planning Commission shall stipulate if the permit is transferable to successive
owners of the property in question, or if the permit is not transferable to any
other person or any other property.
   (G)   Action by the City Council.
      (1) The City Council shall not act upon a proposed special use permit
application until it has received and reviewed a written recommendation and
findings of fact from the Planning Commission.
      (2)   (a)   The City Council may, by simple majority vote, grant or deny
any special use permit for which an application has been submitted, and on
which a public hearing has been held, regardless of the recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
         (b)   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
City Council is required to pass an amendment to this chapter in each of the
following instances:
            1.   When passage would be contrary to the recommendation of the
Planning Commission.
            2.   When the amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of
twenty 20% of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered.
      (3)   The City Council, having voted to grant any special use permit,
shall adopt the permit in ordinance form, at their next regularly scheduled
meeting.
   (H)   Effect of denial. No application for a special use permit which has
been denied by the City Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or
proof that conditions then exist which did not exist prior to the submission of
the application and which are found to be valid by the City Council.
   (I)   Duration of permit.
      (1)   Any ordinance granting a special use permit shall be invalid one
year from the date of its passage and approval by the City Council, unless the
special use, as permitted, has been substantially implemented by the applicant.
      (2)   The City Council shall require any special use permit which is
issued, to stipulate the conditions of its duration if the property is sold to
another person.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.142 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   As set forth at §
154.024 requests for temporary use permits shall be treated in the same manner
as requests for special use permits. Temporary use permits shall not exceed one
year from the time of approval, however, an extension period of one year may be
obtained from the City Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.143 AMENDMENTS.
   In accordance with Illinois law and the provisions of this section, the City
Council may amend the regulations imposed and the districts established in this
chapter. Any proposed alteration of district boundaries, zoning classification,
or proposed change in the status of any use-whether permitted, special, or
prohibited-shall be treated as a proposed amendment, and dealt with
accordingly. Amendments may be proposed by the City Council, the Code Official,
Planning Commission, Zoning Hearing Officer or any party of interest.
   (A)   Filing. Any proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed on a
prescribed form with the Code Official, who shall forward it, together with his
recommendation, to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on every
amendment proposal not later than 30 days after its filing. At the hearing any
interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized
agent or attorney.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to the applicant and to every owner of
property adjacent to the premises for which the amendment is requested; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the amendment is requested, and the
nature of the proposed amendment.
   (D)   Recommendation/findings of fact. Not later than ten days after the
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit their recommendation /
findings of fact in writing to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall
not recommend the adoption of any amendment unless they find that such
amendment is in the public interest and not merely for the benefit of the party
proposing it. Where the effect of a proposed amendment is to alter district
boundaries or to change the status (permitted, special, or prohibited) of any
use, the Planning Commission shall make findings regarding all of the following
matters:
      (1)   Existing uses of property in the vicinity of the property in
question;
      (2)   The district classification of property in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      (3)   The suitability of the property in question for uses already
permitted under the existing district classification;
      (4)   The trend of development in the vicinity of property in question,
including changes (if any) which may have taken place since that property was
placed in its present district classification.
      (5)   Whether the proposed amendment is in the public interest and not
merely for the benefit of the party proposing it.
   (E)   Decision by City Council. The City Council shall act on every proposed
amendment at their next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the
Planning Commission’s recommendation. Except as provided in division (F) of
this section, the City Council, without further public hearing, may by simple
majority vote, pass any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Planning
Commission for further consideration.
   (F)   When two-thirds majority vote is required. The favorable vote of at
least two-thirds of the members of the City Council is required to pass an
amendment to this chapter in each of the following instances:
      (1)   When passage would be contrary to the recommendation of the
Planning Commission; and
      (2)   When the amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of
the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
   (G)   Notice to applicant of written protest. In cases of written opposition
to an amendment of this chapter as prescribed in division (F)(2) of this
section, a copy of the written protest shall be served by the protester or
protesters on the applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the
applicant’s attorney, if any, by registered mail at the address of such
applicant and attorney shown in the applicant for the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed - - )
ZONING HEARING OFFICER; VARIANCES
§ 154.155 OFFICE OF ZONING HEARING OFFICER ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Zoning Hearing Officer is hereby created in accordance with
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14.1 and other applicable authority. The Zoning
Hearing Officer ("Hearing Officer") shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. Alternate hearing officers may serve when the
Hearing Officer is not available and may be appointed in the same manner as the
Hearing Officer. Hearing Officers shall be appointed on the basis of training
and experience which qualifies them to conduct hearings, make recommendations
or findings of fact and conclusions on the matters heard, and otherwise
exercise and perform the powers, duties and functions delegated in accordance
with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14.1.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.156 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Hearing Officer shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law
and by this subchapter, including the following:
   (A)   Appeals. Upon an appeal from a decision by any administrative
official, including but not limited to the Building Official, to decide any
question involving the interpretation of any provision or term of the Zoning
Code, including the determination of the exact location of any district
boundary if there is uncertainty with respect thereto, or other claimed error
in the decision or determination made by an aciministrative official in the
enforcement of the Zoning Code; provided that such decision shall be bound by
and consistent with the language of the ordinance or regulation at issue;
   (B)   Variances. The Hearing Officer may vary the application of the
requirements of the Zoning Code, except for use variances, as provided in this
subchapter. The corporate authorities may reserve, by ordinance, any class of
variance for approval only by the corporate authorities. In such cases where
the City Council has reserved decision making authority, the Hearing Officer
shall still conduct a hearing and provide notice in compliance with ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-13-6.
      (1)   Use variances. To hold public hearings for applications for use
variances and to forward a written report containing findings of fact and a
separate conclusion recommendation thereon to the City Council, consistent with
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-13-14.1.C(1), which the City Council may by ordinance
without further public hearing adopt any proposed use variance, or the City
Council may refer it back to the Hearing Officer for further consideration or
deny the use variance request as a final action. For purposes of this section,
USE VARIANCES shall be any variation that authorizes any use or classification
of use to continue or commence in a zoning district in which that use is not a
permitted use by right. Any proposed use variance which fails to receive the
approval of the Hearing Officer shall not be approved except by the favorable
vote of two-thirds of all Aldermen. No variance shall be granted that shall
authorize a use that may be granted by special use or planned use procedures.
Use variances are not favored and shall be granted only when failure to
authorize the use denies all economically viable use of the property or similar
extreme hardship is demonstrated by the evidence presented.
      (2)   Other authority. To hear and decide all other matters referred to
it by the City Council or upon which it is required to pass under applicable
ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.157 APPEALS.
   An appeal may be taken to the Hearing Officer by any person, firm or
corporation aggrieved by a determination or decision of any administrative
official charged with the enforcement of any provision of or regulation adopted
pursuant to the Zoning Code, or by any officer, department, or board of the
city relating to such decision. The appeal shall be taken within 45 days of the
action complained of by filing, with the City Clerk, a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The City Clerk shall thereupon transmit to the
Hearing Officer and the official from whom the appeal is taken all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. An
appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the official appealed from certifies to the Hearing Officer after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, the stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by the Hearing Officer or by a Court of
Record on application, or notice to the official appealed from and on due cause
shown. The Hearing Officer may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may
modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
to the extent and in the manner that the Hearing Officer may decide to be
fitting and proper to the premises. No challenge to any decision subject to
this section shall be filed in any court until or unless a timely appeal has
been filed and prosecuted to completion by the applicant as provided for in
this chapter so as to establish a final appealable decision.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.158 VARIANCES.
   A variance may be sought by filing a written application and payment of
applicable fee to the City Clerk specifying the specific provision to be
varied, the extent of the variation, and the basis therefor and including such
requirements as are set forth in the Zoning Code. The Hearing Officer may grant
a variance only if it is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the
Zoning Code and in accordance with general or specific rules adopted hereto and
only in cases where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of any regulation of the Zoning Code
relating to the use, construction, alteration of buildings, or structures or
the use of land, but in no other case. No variance may be granted to any
condition of approval placed on a special use permit or prior zoning action.
The Hearing Officer may impose such conditions, safeguards and restrictions
upon the premises, benefitted by the variance as may be necessary to reduce or
minimize any potentially injurious effect of such variance upon other property
in the neighborhood, and to carry out the general purpose and intent of these
regulations. A request for a variance, other than a use variance, may be
granted upon a finding and determination on the record of the Hearing Officer
that the requirements of this section are met and that all of the following
conditions are satisfied or upon such conditions as may the Hearing Officer
establishes as will meet such conditions:
   (A)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted
to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone;
   (B)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances;
   (C)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment;
   (D)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question are located, nor materially frustrate
implementation of this municipality's Growth Management Plan; and
   (E)   The variance, if granted, will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.159 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General. The Hearing Officer shall act in accordance with the
procedure specified by law and by the Zoning Code. All appeals and applications
to the Hearing Officer shall be in writing. Every appeal or application shall
refer to the specific provision of the Zoning Code involved and shall exactly
set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the use for which the variance is
sought, or the details of the variance that is applied for and the grounds on
which it is claimed that the variance should be granted, as the case may be.
The city may appear by any designated official of the City Council and be heard
as a party in interest in any hearing before the Hearing Officer, and the city
may appeal any decision of the Hearing Officer to a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Applications. All applications for variance shall be charged a fee by
the city for filing, processing, postage and public notice in an amount as
published in the City Code. Applicants shall provide a list of names and
addresses of the owners of record for all properties located within 250 feet of
the subject property's boundary. Property owner lists shall be obtained from
the County Recorder of the county wherein the subject property is located.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. No action of the Hearing Officer shall be taken on
any variance application until after notice has been given of the hearing. The
Hearing Officer shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal or
application and shall give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the
matter within a reasonable time.
      (1)   Notice of the time, date, and location of such hearing and a brief
summary or explanation of the subject matter of the hearing shall be given by
publishing at least one notice thereof in a newspaper published in the city,
such publication to be made at least 15 days before the public hearings but not
more than 30 days before the hearing.
      (2)   At least 15 days before the public hearing but not more than 30
days before the hearing, the Building Official or designee shall send all
property owners on the aforesaid list a written notice by certified mail
(return receipt required) or personal delivery. The notice shall state:
         (a)   The address of the location for which the variance is requested;
         (b)   The applicant's name and address;
         (c)   A description of the variance requested;
         (d)   The date the application was filed; and
         (e)   Notification of the public hearing with the hearing's date, time
and location.
   (D)   Hearings procedure. All hearings conducted by the Hearing Officer
shall be open to the public, held at the call of the Hearing Officer and at
such times as he or she may determine. At hearings conducted by the Hearing
Officer, the Building Official, or his or her designee, shall provide the
Hearing Officer with the factual background of the application, the request
sought by the applicant, and the relevant sections of the Zoning Code. At
hearings conducted by the Hearing Officer, any interested person may appear in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. All testimony before the
Hearing Officer shall be given under oath. The Hearing Officer shall administer
oaths and may compel attendance of witnesses. The Hearing Officer shall keep
minutes of his or her proceedings and other official actions. The Hearing
Officer shall adopt his or her own rules and procedures, not in conflict with
this subchapter or applicable Illinois statutes.
   (E)   Decision and findings of fact. Every variation decision shall be
accompanied by findings of facts and shall refer to any exhibits containing
plans and specifications for the proposed use or variation, which shall remain
a part of the permanent records of the Hearing Officer. The findings of facts
shall specify the reason or reasons for making the variation. The terms of the
relief granted shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion or statement
separate from the findings of fact. Property for which relief has been granted
shall not be used in violation of the specific terms of the findings of fact,
as the case may be, unless its authorized use is changed by subsequent variance
or ordinance. Every rule, regulation, decision or determination of the Hearing
Officer shall immediately be filed with the City Clerk and shall be public
record.
   (F)   Expiration of variance approval. Any construction or use authorized by
a variance approval shall substantially commence not later than one year after
the date of the decision granting the variance, or such other time as may be
specified in the variance approval.
   (G)   Cost. For any application to the Hearing Officer, a fee shall be
charged by the city for processing and public notice in an amount as so
published in the City Code as determined from time to time by the City Council.
The fee is intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the
processing/conducting of this process and procedure, and do not constitute a
tax or other revenue-raising device. Any fee paid by the applicant to the city
is non-refundable. A current schedule of fees shall be maintained on file with
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.160 CITY COUNCIL POWER OF ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW.
   (A)   Immediately following the filing of the written decision of the
Hearing Officer on any appeal or variance request under this section, the City
Clerk shall file a report with the City Council concerning such action. Within
21 days after the Hearing Officer's decision, the City Council, upon majority
vote, may exercise the power of administrative review of any Hearing Officer
decision on an application for an appeal or variance.
   (B)   Upon adoption of the motion to exercise the power of review, the City
Council may act on the matter directly or first refer the matter to committee.
Before acting on the variance or appeal, the City Council may set the matter
for hearing before the committee or the City Council. The City Council will
give written notice of any such hearing to the applicant and all other persons
who appeared and spoke at the public hearing before the Hearing Officer. In
addition, the City Council may, in its discretion, notify and allow to be heard
at the hearing any other person who the City Council believes may be aggrieved
by any decision or action concerning the application.
   (C)   Following its review, the City Council may affirm, reverse, or modify,
in whole or in part, any determination of the Hearing Officer. A favorable vote
of two-thirds of all Aldermen shall be required to overturn or modify a
decision by the Hearing Officer. The decision of the City Council shall be made
within 45 days of its vote to review the decision of the Hearing Officer,
unless extended for specified cause by a majority vote of the City Council, or
the Hearing Officer decision shall become final. In making any decision, the
City Council may adopt and rely on the record of the hearing officer or may
hold a new hearing to establish a record for final decision.
   (D)   Unless the City Council exercises its power of review of
administrative review, the decision of the Hearing Officer shall become
effective after 21 days following its decision.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.161 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL DECISION.
   Any officer, department or board of the city or any person whose legal
rights, duties, or privileges have been affected by any final decision of the
Hearing Officer, or any party affected by the decision of the City Council
where such decision has been reserved or appealed to the City Council, may
present to the Circuit Court having jurisdiction in the county a complaint,
duly verified, stating that such decision is illegal in whole or in part,
specifying the grounds of the illegality and otherwise proceeding pursuant to
the Administrative Review Law, (ILCS Ch. 735, Act 5, § 3-101 et seq.) which
shall govern such appeals including as authorized in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-
13-14.1. Such complaint shall be presented to the court within 35 days after
the filing of the final decision. The costs of preparing and certifying the
record of proceedings for filing with the Circuit Court in an administrative
review proceeding shall be paid to the city by the appellant prior to the
filing of such records with the court. To the full extent permitted by law,
unless review is sought of an administrative decision within the time and in
the manner herein provided, the parties to the proceeding before the
administrative agency shall be barred from obtaining judicial review of such
administrative decision.
(Ord. 2021-08, passed 6-7-2021)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor, and each day that such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not more than $750.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent this municipality from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedy or penalty, the city may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding: (1) to prevent the unlawful construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use; (2) to
prevent the occupancy of the building, structure or land; (3) to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about the premises; (4) to
restrain, correct or abate the violation; or (5) to take such other action
available at law or equity to enforce the terms, purposes and intent of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 155: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Title, purpose and applicability
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   General regulations
   
155.04   Prohibited, permitted and types of signs
   
155.05   Administration and enforcement
   
155.06   Appeals, variances, amendments and other matters
§ 155.01 TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish
comprehensive regulations for the control of graphics and signs in order to
preserve protect and promote the public health, safety, and welfare; to
eliminate pedestrian and vehicular traffic hazards; and to enhance the economic
vitality and appeal of this community. More specifically, this chapter is
intended to achieve the following objectives:
      (1)   To authorize the use of graphics which are:
         (a)   Compatible with their surroundings and the zoning district in
which they are located;
         (b)   Expressive of the image this municipality is striving to
encourage;
         (c)   Appropriate to the type of establishment or activity to which
they pertain; and
         (d)   Legible in the circumstance in which they are seen;
      (2)   To promote an attractive urban environment that will enhance the
city's economic potential by promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective
display of graphics;
      (3)   To protect and improve the appearance and orderliness of major
traffic ways and views therefrom, reducing traffic hazards, and enhancing the
image of Troy derived by residents, businesspersons, commuters and visitors;
      (4)   To enhance the physical appearance of the city by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area;
      (5)   To encourage graphics which are in scale and harmony with
surrounding uses, which are visually subordinate to the on-site and nearby
buildings, which themselves are well-designed, and which have good spacing and
design relationships to other graphics;
      (6)   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of graphics with surrounding land uses;
      (7)   To protect the physical and mental well-being of the general public
by recognizing and encouraging a sense of appreciation for the visual
environment; and
      (8)   To protect the health, safety and welfare of the people.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all property within the
corporate limits of the city, except for the areas within 660 feet of the
nearest edge of the right-of-way of federal interstate highways, which are
regulated by the State Highway Advertising Control Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act 440,
§§ 1 through 16 and as it may hereafter be amended. For purposes of
clarification, primary highways are not exempted from regulation under this
chapter, even though the State Highway Advertising Control Act also regulates
advertising adjacent to such highways.
   (C)   Interpretation. Every provision of this chapter shall be construed
liberally in favor of the city and every requirement imposed herein shall be
deemed minimal. Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the
requirements of any other lawfully-adopted ordinance or regulation, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The purpose of these provisions is to promote consistency and precision in
the interpretation of the graphics ordinance. As used in this chapter the
following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:
   ABANDONED SIGN OR GRAPHIC. A sign or graphic which no longer correctly
directs or exhorts any person, advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner,
project or activity conducted or product available on the premises where such
sign is displayed.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape, color, face, height or other similar
characteristics of a graphic.
   AMORTIZATION. The elimination of nonconforming graphics over time in
accordance with the schedule set forth in this chapter.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign having action, motion, movement, changeable copy, or
flashing color changes that are activated by electrical energy, electronic
energy or other manufactured sources of energy supply, but not including wind-
activated movement such as in flags, banners or pennants, or mechanical
movement signs. Animated signs include grids of flashing lights or mechanical
elements in patterns that give the perception of movement, as in chasing lights
or programmable displays. For purposes of this chapter, an animated sign shall
not be considered a mechanical movement sign if the only mechanical movement in
the sign relates to the movement of grids to produce programmable displays.
   APPEAL. A procedure whereby any person aggrieved by any decision or order of
the Building & Zoning Official in any matter related to the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter may seek relief from the Planning Commission.
   AREA. The total square footage of the entire sign surface but excluding the
supporting structure. If a sign is attached to a building or suspended in any
manner whereby there is no apparent trim or confining border, the area shall be
the total square footage of the smallest rectangle that will enclose all
letters, words, numbers, pictures, designs, sketches, and symbols only.
   AWNING. Any structure made of cloth, metal, or other material attached to a
building when the same is so erected as to permit its being raised or retracted
to a position against the building when not in use.
   BEACON LIGHT. Rotating or flashing lights used to attract the attention of
surrounding vehicles and pedestrians.
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISES GRAPHIC.
   BUILDING & ZONING OFFICIAL. The Building & Zoning Official or his designee.
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL. All window and wall areas of a building in one plane
or elevation. Building face shall not include shingled or other roofing area.
   CANOPY. A structure, similar to an awning, made of cloth, metal or other
material with frames attached to a building, and carried by a frame supported
by the ground or sidewalks.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign which has the provision for changing the
letters or characters either manually or electronically.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. An electronically or electrically controlled sign
or portion of a larger sign whereon different messages are displayed including,
but not necessarily limited to public service messages, advertising for the
business or businesses on-site, projection of on-site activities in real-time
time and temperature and the like. The message boards shall include those
devices that display information using panels of individual lamps, rotating
panels, liquid crystal displays or similar technology or rear projection
screens.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXEMPT GRAPHIC. A graphic not subject to the provisions of this chapter as
enumerated in the permitted graphics section.
   FLASHING ILLUMINATION GRAPHIC. Illumination of a graphic wherein such
illumination is not maintained constant in intensity, color and pattern during
all times the graphic is activated.
   FLUSH-MOUNTED GRAPHIC. Any graphic attached to, erected against, or painted
on a wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the graphic in a
plane approximately parallel to the plane of the wall and not projecting more
than 18 inches from the closest point of the wall and not extending more than
three feet above the building or structure roof line.
   FREESTANDING GRAPHIC. A graphic supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces placed in or upon the ground.
   FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the lot abutting a street or public roadway,
except shopping center frontage which is further defined.
   GASOLINE AND OIL SERVICE STATIONS. Any business which dispenses, or is
designed to dispense, gasoline and/or oil for use in motor vehicles or boats,
e.g., automobile and truck service stations, convenience stores with gasoline
pumps.
   GRAPHIC. Any identification or advertising sign visible from the public
right-of-way or from any parking area used by the general public.
   GRAPHIC FOR USE FOR A LIMITED PERIOD OF TIME. Any graphic displayed for use
for a limited period of time.
   HISTORIC SIGN STATUS. A sign or graphic, which in the opinion of a majority
of the Planning Commission has significant historic significance.
   MARQUEE. Any basically horizontal awning-like structure of permanent
construction projecting from the wall of a building.
   MESSAGE. A communication of identification or advertising information
visually perceived which may consist of words, abbreviations, numbers, symbols,
pictures, geometric shapes, etc.
   MOBILE/PORTABLE GRAPHIC. A term commonly used to mean any graphic not
designed to be permanently attached to a building or anchored to the ground,
and designed to be moved from place to place. Such graphics primarily include,
but are not limited to, signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be
self-supporting and movable.
   MONUMENT GRAPHIC. A large, freestanding, weather-resistant ground graphic
with little or no space between the sign and the ground. Monument signs are
permanently fixed to the ground by a solid base and are not connected to a
building.
   NONCONFORMING GRAPHIC. Any graphic which existed on the effective date of
this chapter (or amendment thereto), but which does not comply with the
regulations set forth herein.
   OFF-PREMISES GRAPHIC. A sign structure advertising an establishment,
merchandise, service, or entertainment, which is not sold, produced,
manufactured, or furnished at the property on which said sign is located.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign designed and intended to be permanently affixed to
the ground, a building or other permanent structure. Signs originally designed
and manufactured to be portable shall not be considered permanent even if
modified and permanently affixed to the ground, a building or other permanent
structure.
   PROJECTING GRAPHIC. Any graphic, other than a flush-mounted graphic, which
is supported by any exterior wall of a building or suspended beneath any
awning, canopy or marquee with the exposed face of said graphic in a plane
approximately perpendicular to the plane of the wall and projecting more than
18 inches and no more than three feet from the wall of a building to which it
is attached.
   ROOF. Any part of the outside top covering of a building, including any eave
or other extension of the covering beyond the wall.
   ROOFLINE. The edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever forms
the top line of the building silhouette, or the side of the building where the
graphic is located.
   ROOF-MOUNTED GRAPHIC. Any graphic erected, maintained or displayed on the
roof of any building or structure.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER. Any building or group of buildings that is under
single ownership or control that provides common off-street parking facilities
and that is occupied by two or more retail sales and/or nonretail office
establishments.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER IDENTIFICATION FRONTAGE. Lineal frontage of the
development abutting a street or public roadway.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER IDENTIFICATION SIGN. Any sign identifying a building
or group of buildings that is under single ownership or control that provides
common off-street parking facilities and that is occupied by two or more retail
sales and/or nonretail office establishments.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER OUTLOT. A portion of the original shopping/office
center tract sold or otherwise conveyed off to a separately-owned or controlled
entity.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER OUTLOT FRONTAGE. The width of the outlot that faces
the shopping center frontage.
   SHOPPING/OFFICE CENTER RETAIL AND NONRETAIL STOREFRONT. The physical limits
of the storefront.
   SIGN. Any object, device, display or structure or part thereof, whether
located inside or outside a building, which is visible from any lot line, and
the primary purpose of which is the conveyance of an idea, advertising,
endorsement, identification, or information by means of visual symbols,
lettering, illustration or any other means of directing attention or
communicating a message.
   SIGN WALKER. A sign held by or attached to a human for the purposes of
advertising or otherwise drawing attention to an individual, business,
commodity, service, activity, or product. A person dressed in costume for the
purpose of advertising or otherwise drawing attention to an individual,
business, commodity, service, activity, or product shall also be construed as a
human sign.
   SNIPE SIGN. A sign which is tacked, nailed, posted, pasted, glued, or
otherwise attached to a tree, pole, fence, public bench, streetlight pole, or
other object, or on any public property or within the right-of-way.
   SPECIAL EVENT. A special, promotional event by a local business or non-
profit organization involving the temporary display and/or sale of merchandise,
entertainment or food and beverage sales where the event does not exceed ten
consecutive days.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare, maintained by the State of Illinois,
township, county, or city which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign, banner or other advertising device or display
constructed of cloth, canvas, cardboard, wallboard, or other light temporary
materials, with or without a structural frame, intended for a temporary period
of display, including for illustrative purposes but not limited to garage
sales, private parties, candidacy for public or private office, local
referenda, public demonstrations, business special events, non-profit
organizations/events located in the city limits.
   WINDOW GRAPHIC. Any graphic visible from the exterior of building which is
painted on, affixed to, or otherwise attached to the exterior of a window or
depicted upon the exterior of a window. A permanent window sign is one that is
intended to remain on display for 30 days or more; a temporary window sign is
one that is intended to remain on display for a shorter time period.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 2024-56,
passed 9-16-2024)
§ 155.03 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. Any graphic or sign not expressly permitted by
this chapter is prohibited in the city.
      (1)   Signs in the C-1 Neighborhood Commercial zoning district are not
governed by this chapter. See §
154.020(H) Neighborhood Commercial - C-1 Zoning District of the Troy Zoning
Code.
   (B)   Calculation of graphic area. The area of every graphic or sign shall
be calculated as follows:
      (1)   If the graphic is enclosed by a box or outline, the total area
contained within that outline, including the background, shall be deemed the
graphic area.
      (2)   If the graphic consists of individual letters, parts or symbols,
only the area of an imaginary square or rectangle which would completely
enclose all the letters, symbols and parts shall be deemed the graphic area.
      (3)   Only one side of any double-facing graphics shall be considered in
calculating area.
      (4)   The area of graphics of three-dimensional shapes such as boxes,
globes, cylinders, or pyramids shall be computed as one-half of the total of
the exposed surfaces.
   (C)   Graphic area allowances. Within the limitations and restrictions as
further provided in this chapter, the total of the areas of all graphics that a
particular establishment is permitted to display shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Two square feet of graphics area per one foot of lineal store
frontage in the C-2 General Commercial, C-3 Highway Commercial, C-5 Town Center
Mixed-use; I-1 Light Industry and I-2 General Industry zoning districts with a
minimum of eight square feet of graphics permitted in these zoning districts.
      (2)   The total permitted graphics area shall not exceed 300 square feet
per street frontage.
      (3)   If any establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side
having frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The sign area allowances shall
not be aggregated on any one side so as to allow any such establishment to
display on any one frontage a greater area of graphics than 300 square feet.
      (4)   The side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
      (5)   Any signage that is part of the building shall not exceed 10% of
the total square footage of the respective building face upon which it is
placed.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination of graphics is permitted, subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   No red, yellow, orange, green, or other colored light shall be used
within 200 feet of a traffic sign or device.
      (2)   No graphic shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights,
which have a changing light intensity, brightness, or color. Beacon lights are
prohibited.
      (3)   The illumination area shall be included in graphic area allowances.
      (4)   The light from any illuminated graphic shall be shaded, shielded,
or directed to avoid a nuisance to persons on adjacent property or create a
traffic hazard.
      (5)   No exposed reflective-type bulb and no strobe light or incandescent
lamp that exceeds 15 watts or equivalent shall be used on the exterior surface
of any graphic in such a manner as to expose the face of the bulb, light, or
lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
   (E)   Movement prohibited. No graphic which revolves, rotates, or
mechanically moves in any manner shall be permitted in the city.
   (F)   Obstructions and traffic hazards.
      (1)   No graphic shall be erected, relocated, or maintained to prevent
free access to any door, window, fire escape, or driveway.
      (2)   No graphic shall be erected or maintained in such a manner that it
interferes with, obstructs the view of, or can be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal, or device. In addition, no graphic shall contain the
words "stop", "go", "caution", "danger", "warning" or similar words unless
these specific words are part of the name of the particular business.
   (G)   Structural and maintenance requirements.
      (1)   Every graphic shall be designed and constructed in a manner that is
safe and shall conform to the applicable provisions of the building and
electrical codes.
      (2)   The Building & Zoning Official shall have the right under the
Administrative and Enforcement section of this chapter to order the repair and
removal of any sign which is defective, damaged, or substantially deteriorated
as defined in the International Building Code most recently adopted by the
city.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 2024-56,
passed 9-16-2024)
§ 155.04 PROHIBITED, PERMITTED AND TYPES OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Prohibited graphics or signs. The following graphics or signs are
prohibited everywhere in this city:
      (1)   Mobile/portable signs.
      (2)   Graphics which contain or consist of banners, pennants, streamers,
ribbons, strings of exposed light bulbs, spinners or similar devices.
      (3)   Graphics attached to trees, fences or public utility poles other
than warning signs or those graphics issued by public utilities and attached to
public utility poles.
      (4)   Abandoned signs including the posts and other supports which
advertise or identify an activity, business, product, or service no longer
conducted on the premises where such graphic is located. If the business or
service advertised or identified by a nonconforming sign ceases to be conducted
for a period exceeding 90 calendar days, the nonconforming sign shall be
classified as an "abandoned sign", and shall be removed by the owner, agent, or
person having beneficial use of the premises or lot upon which the sign is
located within 30 days following receipt of written notice as stated in the
Administrative and Enforcement section of this chapter by the Building & Zoning
Official concerning its removal. The Building & Zoning Official can take into
account the fact that a sign may be resold as part of the sale of a business
when presented with documentation depicting such effort should the Building &
Zoning Official decide not to send a written removal notice.
      (5)   Roof-mounted graphics that extends more than three feet above the
highest point of the roof.
      (6)   Off-premises signs except as provided by a special use permit or in
accordance with the State Highway Advertising Control Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act
440, §§ 1 through 16.
      (7)   Snipe signs.
   (B)   Permitted graphics. Every graphic enumerated below that complies with
the indicated requirements may be erected in any zoning district of this city
without a permit, unless indicated otherwise. The area of such graphics shall
not be debited against the displaying establishment's sign area allowance:
      (1)    Temporary for sale or for lease signs advertising the development
of a new residential subdivision shall not exceed 32 square feet or remain more
than 90 days after the subdivision is completed or 90% of all lots are sold.
Only one such sign per the entire development, posted on the subdivision
property is permitted. In commercial and industrial zoning districts, temporary
construction signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors, and
other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/or announcing
the character or purpose of the building but not advertising any product. Only
one such sign per building is permitted, not exceeding 32 square feet in area,
confined to the site of the construction, and removed within ten working days
after construction has been completed.
      (2)   On-premises directional signs such as signs identifying entrances,
exits, parking areas, no-parking areas, restrooms, public telephones, walkways,
and similar features or facilities. Such signs shall not exceed six square feet
in area.
      (3)    Flags of any country, state, or unit of local government (ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 11-80-17). A maximum of three flags are allowed per establishment
or, if residentially zoned, per house.
      (4)   Governmental or public signs, such as traffic control signs,
railroad crossing signs, legal notices, and such temporary emergency signs as
may be authorized by the Building & Zoning Official.
      (5)   House numbers and/or resident-only name signs located on the lot to
which the sign pertains. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in area
for single-family dwellings nor six square feet for multiple-family dwellings.
      (6)   Integral signs, memorial signs or tablets carved into stone or
inlaid to become part of the building, and containing such information as date
of erection, name of the building, and memorial tributes.
      (7)   Interior signs located in any building or within an enclosed lobby
or court of any building or group of buildings or interior enclosed/fenced
sporting areas.
      (8)   Property regulation signs such as no trespassing, beware of dog, no
hunting, no fishing, etc. Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in
area.
      (9)   Temporary signs.
         (a)   Temporary event signs may be displayed without a permit,
provided that all such signs comply with the following:
            1.   No more than 15 temporary signs may be displayed no more than
six times per year and during a period not to exceed 14 days before the
scheduled event or season to which they advertise or are related, and shall be
removed within seven days after that event is over or that season has ended.
            2.   In residential zoning districts, temporary signs shall not
exceed eight square feet. In commercial and industrial zoning districts,
temporary signs shall not exceed eight square feet if located in a C-1 zoning
district; 24 square feet if located in a C-2 zoning district; 32 square feet if
located in a C-3 zoning district; 24 square feet if located in a C-4 zoning
district; 24 square feet in a C-5 zoning district; and 32 square feet if
located in I-1 or I-2 zoning districts.
            3.   Only one temporary sign per business is allowed on each street
frontage.
            4.   If mounted on a building, temporary signs shall be in weather-
resistant permanent frames.
            5.   Shall not be placed in any of the following locations: on any
public property; on any public right-of-way; on any utility pole or tree; on
any street or road sign or sign pole; on any other person's property without
express verbal permission; and/or in any location that blocks or tends to block
sight lines for vehicular traffic.
      (10)   Residential development identification structures at major
entrances designed to identify a residential subdivision, apartment complex, or
planned development; containing no commercial advertising; and not exceeding 75
square feet in total area including the monument and located on-premises.
      (11)   Utility company signs that serve as an aid to public safety or
that show the location of public telephones, underground cables, etc.
      (12)   Historic building signs or plaques containing no advertising and
limited to four square feet in area. Applicants desiring a historic sign status
shall comply with all requirements of the Historic Preservation Ordinance.
      (13)   Public signs such as street identification signs, traffic signs,
and other public interest signs erected by the city or the State of Illinois.
      (14)   Home occupation interior or exterior business signs shall not be
larger than two square feet in area, unlighted, and installed only on the
dwelling building itself.
   (C)   Residential zone districts. Upon the effective date of this chapter,
no signs or other graphics except those listed in the permitted graphics
section of this chapter shall be erected in any residential portion of a
planned development, planned development district, or in any other residential
district.
   (D)   Commercial and industrial zone districts. No establishment located in
any commercial district, any commercial or industrial portion of a planned
development, or any industrial district shall display a total area of signs in
excess of its sign area allowance as required in the graphic area allowance
section of this chapter. Additionally, signs in any commercial district, any
commercial or industrial portion of a planned development district or in any
industrial district shall conform to the requirements indicated in the
divisions below.
      (1)   Flush-mounted graphics. The total square footage of the flush-
mounted graphics area shall not exceed 10% of the total square footage of the
building face upon which it is placed. No flush-mounted graphic shall:
         (a)   Project more than 18 inches from the wall or surface to which it
is attached. If such wall or surface is not vertical, the projection shall be
measured from the closest point of the wall or surface to the graphic; or
         (b)   Extend more than three feet above the roofline of the building
to which it is attached.
      (2)   Projecting graphics. One projecting graphic per street frontage may
be substituted for the flush-mounted graphic. No projecting graphic shall:
         (a)   Project over a public right-of-way or closer than two feet to
the curb or edge of such vehicular way (ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-14);
         (b)   Project more than three feet from the building to which it is
attached;
         (c)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
         (d)   Extend more than three feet above the roofline of the building
to which it is attached (not on top of the roof); or
         (e)   Exceed 12 square feet in area.
      (3)   Window graphics. Any commercial, industrial or institutional
establishment may display permanent window graphics. Permanent window graphics
shall cover no more than 20% of any window or 20 square feet of window,
whichever is less. Permanent window graphics shall be debited against the total
area of all graphics permitted.
      (4)   Awning, canopy, and marquee with graphics. Graphics mounted flush
against awning, canopy, or marquee shall be considered flush-mounted graphics,
and shall comply with the regulations of such. Graphics suspended beneath any
awning, canopy or marquee shall be considered projecting graphics, and shall
comply with the regulations of such. An awning, canopy or marquee graphic may
be painted on directly and shall comply with the graphic area allowances
section of this chapter.
      (5)   Shopping/office center monument graphics. A shopping/office center
- as an entity - may erect an identification sign under the provisions of this
chapter:
         (a)   Shopping/office center identification graphics shall not exceed
100 square feet when identifying only the shopping center.
         (b)   Monument graphics shall not exceed 200 square feet when
identifying the shopping/office center and/or tenants.
         (c)   No shopping/office center shall have more than one monument
graphic per street entrance identifying the shopping center and/or tenants.
         (d)   Tenants identified on the shopping/office center monument
graphic shall have the square footage included as part of the tenant's overall
allowable signage.
         (e)   Outlots with street frontage shall be allowed a freestanding
graphic under the freestanding graphics section of this chapter. This does not
apply to outlots in the C-5 zoning district.
         (f)   No point of any monument graphic shall project over or intrude
into any public right-of-way or private lot line and no monument graphic shall
be higher than two feet in the intersection sight triangle.
         (g)   A monument graphic shall not extend more than the maximum height
allowed in the freestanding graphics section of this chapter.
      (6)   Freestanding graphics.  
         (a)   No establishment in any zoning district may have more than one
freestanding graphic on any lot, except in C-3, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts.
In these zoning districts, an establishment may have a maximum of two
freestanding graphics on any lot, with one freestanding graphic not exceeding
the height allowed under the freestanding graphics section of this chapter and
one freestanding graphic not extending 25 feet above the ground.
         (b)   Minimum distance apart for two freestanding graphics on one
parcel in C-3, I-1 and I-2 zoning districts: If an establishment in these
zoning districts erects two freestanding graphics on one parcel of land and
both freestanding graphics are located in the front half or both freestanding
graphics are located in the back half of the property, the minimum distance
apart shall be one-half of the parcel's street frontage. If an establishment in
these zoning districts erects one freestanding graphic on the front half of the
property and the other freestanding graphic on the back half of the property,
the minimum distance apart shall be one-half of the parcel's depth. The front
half of the property shall be determined by the legal address. Under no
circumstance shall two freestanding graphics constructed on one parcel in these
zoning districts be placed closer than 150 feet apart.
         (c)   Freestanding graphics shall comply with the following
regulations:
            1.   No point of any freestanding graphics shall project over or
intrude on a private lot line, and no freestanding graphic shall be higher than
two feet in the intersection sight triangle.
            2.   No freestanding graphic shall exceed 100 square feet in area
or 12 feet in any dimension, except for freestanding graphics in C-3, I-1 and
I-2 zoning districts which shall not exceed 300 square feet in area. This
paragraph does not apply to shopping center identification graphics.
            3.   Freestanding graphics shall have a decorative post/pole wrap
consisting of comparable construction materials. Any advertising on the wrap
will contribute to the total square footage of the sign.
            4.   Height of sign—districts.
               a.   When attached to a post or other supports, a freestanding
graphic shall not extend more than 80 feet above the ground or pavement in C-3,
I-1 and I-2 zoning districts except on those parcels of ground contiguous to
U.S. Highway 40 from Alarth Drive to the eastern city limits which shall not
extend more than 25 feet above the ground or pavement in C-3, I-1 and I-
2 zoning districts.
               b.   When attached to a post or other supports, a freestanding
graphic shall not extend more than 25 feet above the ground or pavement in a C-
2 zoning district.
      (7)   Off-premises signs.
         (a)   Off-premises signs are permitted on either side of a federal
interstate highway for 660 feet from the nearest edge of the right-of-way, in
accordance with the State Highway Advertising Control Act, ILCS Ch. 225, Act
440, §§ 1 through 16 and as it may hereafter be amended and which is exempt
from this chapter.
         (b)   Off-premises signs are permitted by special use permit only on
Edwardsville Road/Highway 162 and Highway 40 with the following requirements.
            1.   No such off-premises signs shall be located closer than 300
feet to another off-premises sign, on either side of the roadway.
            2.   All off-premises signs shall be constructed upon a single pole
made of steel or metal of equivalent strength.
            3.   No off-premises sign shall exceed 25 feet at its highest
point.
            4.   Off-premises signs shall not be permitted within or over the
public right-of-way.
            5.   No more than five off-premises signs are permitted per mile on
each side of the roadway. Nonconforming off-premises signs shall be included in
this determination.
            6.   The graphic area allowance for off-premises signs shall not
exceed 100 square feet.
            7.   Other regulations contained in this chapter may also apply to
off-premises signs.
      (8)   Planned development (PD) and planned development districts. Signage
shall comply with the city's sign ordinance unless the applicant for a PD
district designation elects to submit a "Comprehensive Sign Plan" as defined in
the Planned Development section of the Zoning Ordinance. The Planning
Commission may recommend, and the City Council may approve, a comprehensive
sign plan, which shall be made part of the approved planned development
district. The Zoning Ordinance may contain conditions, requirements or
standards regarding signs that may be stipulated by the City Council, along
with the criteria used to evaluate the sign plan.
      (9)   Electronic message center signs (EMCS).
         (a)   An electronic message center sign shall be permitted only as an
integral component of a freestanding sign or, to the extent permitted by these
regulations, as an integral component of a building sign.
         (b)   Electronic message center signs (EMCS) may be substituted in
place of other permitted signs under this section. Portable or temporary EMCS
are prohibited. The EMCS shall be further restricted by the additional
standards in this division.
         (c)   Area. An electronic message center sign shall comprise less than
50% of the overall sign area of the sign structure and shall not, in any case,
exceed 32 square feet in area. An electronic message center sign shall be
compatible with the design of the sign structure, including width, depth, and
color of the cabinet.
         (d)   Message duration. Advertising messages, information, images and
background shall remain in a fixed, static position for a minimum of eight
seconds. The change sequence must be accomplished within two seconds or less.
         (e)   Illumination. The outdoor advertising sign shall have an
automatic dimmer (factory set to the illumination intensities as follows) and a
photocell sensor to adjust the illumination intensity or brilliance of the sign
so that it shall not cause glare or impair the vision of motorists and shall
not interfere with any driver's operation of a motor vehicle. The sign shall
not exceed a maximum illumination of 7,500 nits (candelas per square meter)
during daylight hours and a maximum illumination of 500 nits between dusk to
dawn as measured from the sign's face at maximum brightness. Any external
illumination devices shall be effectively shielded to prevent beams or rays of
light from being directed at any portion of a street or highway, or any
residential use.
         (f)   Limitations. No moving, rotating, fluttering, blinking, or
flashing elements are permitted. No animation, video, audio, pyrotechnic, or
bluecasting components are permitted.
         (g)   In addition, the following standards shall apply to all EMCS:
            1.   The EMCS shall contain a default design that will freeze the
sign in one position if a malfunction occurs or in the alternative shut down;
and
            2.   The EMCS shall not display any message that moves, appears to
move, scrolls, or changes in intensity during the fixed display period.
            3.   When in the opinion of the Building & Zoning Official an EMCS
is proposed for a project or building or within the C-4 zoning district, review
and approval of said EMCS shall be conducted by the Planning Commission when
determined satisfactorily that the requested EMCS will pose no substantial harm
to the historic character of said structure, project or area.
      (10)   Sign package.
         (a)   Required. A sign package is required for review by the Planning
Commission for the following signs:
            1.   Electronic message center signs in the C-4 zoning district; or
            2.   In the opinion of the Building & Zoning Official, any sign can
be brought to the Planning Commission for review and approval including
projects with multiple buildings or tenants, unique circumstances such as poor
visibility or irregularly shaped sites, or when a uniquely creative approach to
signage design is proposed.
         (b)   Specific intent The specific intent of this procedure is to
provide a process to evaluate the number, size, location, height, and design of
signage within a project on a comprehensive basis to ensure that it is
installed as a consistent, integrated component of the development and zoning
district.
         (c)   Submittal requirements. Said sign package shall include:
            1.   The location of the buildings, structures, or lots on which
the signs are to be installed;
            2.   A site plan of the property involved, showing accurate
placement thereon of the proposed signs;
            3.   Photographs, illustrations, or renderings of the building,
site, and/or other signage on the site as required to determine consistency;
            4.   Other materials or evidence as may be required to demonstrate
compliance with the review criteria; and
            5.   Fees. Filing and review fees as established by the City
Council.
         (d)   Review criteria. Signs within the proposed package may deviate
from the number, size, location, height, and design criteria specified by this
section for each type of sign, provided that a variance is approved.
         (e)   Approved sign package. The approved sign package shall be
retained on file in the Building & Zoning Department.
         (f)   Sign permit. A sign permit shall be required to install each
sign in the approved package.
         (g)   Amendment to sign package. Applications to amend any portion of
an approved sign package shall be made to the Planning Commission for review
and recommendation.
      (11)   Sign walkers. Sign walkers shall be permitted, subject to the
following regulations:
         (a)   Location. Sign walkers, with permission from the property owner
and/or jurisdiction, shall be located only on the real property that the
business, goods or services are located:
            1.   At grade level.
            2.   Prohibited locations: sign walkers shall not be located:
               a.   Within the public right-of-way;
               b.   In raised or painted medians;
               c.   In parking aisles or stalls;
               d.   In driving lanes or driveways;
               e.   So that less than a minimum of four feet is clear for
pedestrian passage on all sidewalks and walkways, or to cause a hazard to
pedestrian traffic;
               f.   On fences, boulders, planters, other signs, vehicles,
utility facilities, or any structure;
               g.   Within a minimum distance of 20 feet from any other sign
walker;
               h.   In a manner that results in sign walkers physically
interacting with motorists, pedestrians, or bicyclists; or
               i.   In the C-5 zoning district.
         (b)   Display. Signs shall be:
            1.   Displayed only during the hours the business is open to
conduct business.
            2.   Held, worn or balanced at all times.
         (c)   Elements prohibited. The following shall be prohibited:
            1.   Any form of illumination, including flashing, blinking, or
rotating lights;
            2.   Animation on the sign itself;
            3.   Mirrors or other reflective materials;
            4.   Attachments, including, but not limited to, balloons, ribbons,
speakers; and
            5.   Noise making devices.
      (12)   C-4 Downtown Mixed-use zoning district signage. Signage in the C-
4 Downtown Mixed-use zoning district shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   New signs and all physical changes to existing signs in C-
4 shall adhere to these regulations, and shall require a sign permit from the
city Building & Zoning Department;
         (b)   Preferred sign types include building-mounted signs that face
the street, window signs, projecting signs, and signs on awnings;
         (c)   Pylon/pole, back-lit, neon, or scrolling LED and digital reader
board signs may be permitted in C-4 based on the following considerations:
            1.   Consistency and compatibility of requested signage with the
overall design and architecture of building it is attached to or project it is
associated with; and
            2.   Consistency and compatibility with the intent of the Downtown
Mixed-use district.
         (d)   Wall signs, ground/monument signs, awning signs, canopy signs
and blade or projecting signs are permitted following review and approval of
the Building & Zoning Official;
         (e)   Sandwich board signs (or "A-frame" type signs) may be placed on
the sidewalk but shall not intrude into a four foot wide pedestrian access
route. Sandwich board signs must be removed from the sidewalk at dusk until
dawn;
         (f)   Signs shall not blink, flash, spin or move in any manner;
         (g)   Two-sided projecting signs that face up and down the street are
permitted when meeting the following:
            1.   Located above the horizontal expression line that defines the
ground floor facade;
            2.   Centered on the storefront or above the entryway;
            3.   The sign itself shall not be:
               a.   Greater than 42 inches in width or 42 inches in height;
               b.   Greater in width than in height;
               c.   Not extend more than 36 inches from the building face;
               d.   Provide a minimum ten foot vertical clearance above the
sidewalk; and
               e.   A decorative hanger shall be required for attachment.
         (h)   Rooftop signs are prohibited;
         (i)   Sign colors shall relate to and complement the primary colors of
the building facade;
         (j)   Sign design and placement shall fit the character of the
building and should not obscure desirable architectural details;
         (k)   Artistic projecting signs shall be permitted provided they are
proportional and complementary to the architecture of the building;
         (l)   Signage on awnings shall be permitted on the "fringe" portion as
long as it is complementary and does not contrast the architecture of the
building;
         (m)   Awnings may be lit from above and/or may feature lighting
beneath to illuminate the sidewalk;
         (n)   Glowing awnings are prohibited; and
         (o)   Temporary product signage can be placed in display windows but
is limited to 20% of the total area of glazing. These signs shall be of
professional appearance.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 2020-01,
passed 1-21-2020; Ord. 2024-56, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 155.05 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement officer, duties. The Building & Zoning Official is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. This responsibility includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To supervise the registration of all existing graphics;
      (2)   To review and approve applications for graphics permits;
      (3)   To inspect existing and newly constructed graphics to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and where there exists
violations, to initiate appropriate corrective actions;
      (4)   To review and forward to the Planning Commission all applications
for variances, appeals and amendments;
      (5)   To maintain up-to-date records of said application and of any
official actions taken pursuant thereto;
      (6)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the City Council at least once each year; and
      (7)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter.
   (B)   Notification to existing graphic owners. Publication of this chapter
is required ten days before it becomes effective.
   (C)   Graphic permit. No sign, billboard or other graphic, except those
exempted from the provisions of this chapter shall be erected, altered,
expanded, relocated or reconstructed without a graphic permit issued by the
Building & Zoning Official.
      (1)   Application for permit. Application for a graphic permit shall be
made on forms provided by the Building & Zoning Official and shall include the
information listed below:
         (a)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
         (b)   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the premises
on which the graphic is to be erected;
         (c)   Location of the building, structure, or lot where the graphic is
to be erected, and the zone district classification;
         (d)   Description of the graphic indicating location, dimensions,
area, height, illumination method of support;
         (e)   Position of graphic in relation to nearby buildings, street
grade and traffic control devices;
         (f)   Amount of street frontage that the establishment which proposes
to display the graphic has and the total area and type of all existing signs on
said premises;
         (g)   If application for sign permit is for signage for a building to
be newly constructed, a site plan displaying all sign locations, a complete set
of final drawings displaying all elevations, and the building permit number;
and
         (h)   Such other information as the Building & Zoning Official shall
require to determine full compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Issuance of permit. Upon the filing of an application for a graphic
permit, the Building & Zoning Official shall examine the plans and
specifications and the premises upon which the graphic is to be located. If the
proposed graphic meets the requirements of this chapter, a permit shall be
issued within 14 days of this application. If the graphic does not meet the
requirements of this chapter, the Building & Zoning Official shall deny the
permit and within 14 days of the application, respond to the applicant in
written form. All signs authorized under a graphic permit must be completed
within six months after the date of issuance.
   (E)   Nonconforming graphics.  
      (1)   A nonconforming graphic is one lawfully erected and existing as of
the date that this chapter became effective, or prior to any amendment hereto,
but which does not comply with the regulations set forth herein or to any
applicable amendments hereto. All nonconforming graphics are either subject to
amortization for a period of one year from the date that the chapter becomes
effective, or for a period of one year from any amendment hereto as to those
rendered unlawful by reason of such amendment, or they are allowed to remain
indefinitely under certain conditions (which is sometimes referred to as
grandfathering).
         (a)   Nonconforming, one-year amortization. All nonconforming graphics
that are rendered nonconforming by reason of §
155.03(E) through (G) and §
155.04(A) are subject to a one-year amortization period from the date that this
chapter becomes effective, and they shall either be removed or brought into
compliance with ordinance provisions within the amortization period.
         (b)   Nonconforming, unlimited (grandfathered). All other
nonconforming graphics shall be allowed to remain and be maintained by ordinary
repairs as long as each graphic is registered with the Building & Zoning
Official's office within one year from the effective date of this chapter, but
each such graphic shall not be:
            1.   Replaced or changed by another nonconforming graphic (provided
that changing the message on a changeable copy graphic or off-premises graphic
shall not be deemed a violation of this provision);
            2.   Altered or enlarged (provided that changing the message on a
changeable copy graphic or off-premises graphic shall not be deemed a violation
of this provision);
            3.   Relocated unless it is made to conform with this chapter;
            4.   Reconstructed after damage or destruction in an amount
exceeding 50% of its replacement value at the time of the loss; or
            5.   Structurally altered to prolong the life of the graphic.
      (2)   If the sign is not registered within the registration period, then
the sign is not grandfathered and is required to be removed or brought into
compliance with this chapter at the expiration of the one-year registration
period.
      (3)   This division includes all prohibited signs and all graphics
rendered nonconforming under sections other than those listed in division (E)
(1)(a) of this section. The type, location, area, height, size, shape and
number of grandfathered graphics shall be included in any calculation when
determining compliance of new or altered graphics for each establishment.
   (F)   Unsafe or unlawful graphics.
      (1)   Whenever the Building & Zoning Official finds that any graphic or
supporting structure is in violation of this chapter, the Building & Zoning
Official shall notify the responsible party, and shall order the appropriate
corrective action.
      (2)   The notice requirement shall not apply whenever the Building &
Zoning Official determines that any graphic poses an imminent threat of injury
to life or property.
         (a)   Contents of written notice. The corrective order notice shall be
in writing and shall include:
            1.   Location of the premises upon which the graphic exists;
            2.   Statement of the nature of the violation;
            3.   Statement of the corrective action necessary to bring the
graphic into compliance;
            4.   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
            5.   The date by which an appeal of the corrective order must be
filed; and the procedures for filing an appeal; and
            6.   Statement that failure to obey the corrective action order
shall result in revocation of the graphic permit, and may result in further
remedial action including removal and/or fines.
         (b)   Notification procedure. A corrective action order notice shall
be served to the owner of the graphic by:
            1.   Personal delivery; or
            2.   Sent by registered mail to last known address.
   (G)   Remedial action by city.  
      (1)   Whenever the recipient of a corrective action order notice fails to
obey said order within the time limit set forth therein or in any emergency,
the Building & Zoning Official may alter/remove the subject graphic or take any
other action necessary to effect compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Reimbursement for expenses.
         (a)   Any expense incurred by this city pursuant to authorized graphic
corrective action shall be billed by first-class mail to the owner, or agent of
the graphic or premises upon which the graphic is located.
         (b)   If said bill has not been paid within ten days, the unpaid
charge shall constitute a lien upon the real estate where the graphic is
located. The Building & Zoning Official is hereby authorized to file a notice
of lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of Madison County, Illinois, and
to authorize any legal proceedings necessary to ensure compliance and/or
collection.
   (H)   Complaints. Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is
alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written complaint with the
city. The Building & Zoning Official shall record such complaints, promptly
investigate, and, if he/she deems necessary initiate appropriate corrective
action.
   (I)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $50 nor more than $750, plus costs. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
   (J)   Schedule of fees. All fees indicated below shall be paid by the
applicant upon submission of the proper permit application. Said fees are
intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the processing/
conducting of the listed permits/procedures; they do not constitute a tax or
other revenue-raising device.
 
Permit/Procedure Fee
Graphic Permit   100.00
Appeal           500.00
Variance         500.00
Amendment        300.00
 
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 2022-11,
passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 2024-56, passed 9-16-2024)
§ 155.06 APPEALS, VARIANCES, AMENDMENTS AND OTHER MATTERS.
   (A)   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall hear appeals,
variances, amendments, and other matters arising under this chapter, and shall
perform such other duties as the City Council may prescribe.
   (B)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Building
& Zoning Official in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of
any provision of this chapter may appeal to the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Filing, stay of further proceedings. 
         (a)   Every appeal shall be made within 30 days of the matter
complained of by filing with the Building & Zoning Official a written notice on
a prescribed form specifying the grounds for appeal. Thereupon, the Building &
Zoning Official shall promptly transmit all pertinent records to the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed
unless the Building & Zoning Official certifies to the Planning Commission,
after the notice of appeal has been filed, that for reasons stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Planning Commission or the
Circuit Court grants a restraining order for due cause, and so notifies the
Building & Zoning Official.
      (2)   Public hearing; notice. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on every appeal within 45 days after the filing of the appeal notice.
At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person
or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time, date, and
place of hearing, and briefly describing the nature of the hearing, shall be
given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation within this municipality.
      (3)   Action by Planning Commission. Not later than ten days after the
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit their recommendation/
findings of fact in writing to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall
not recommend any appeal unless they find that it is in the public interest and
not merely for the benefit of the party appealing.
      (4)   Decision by the City Council. The City Council shall act on every
proposed appeal at their next regularly scheduled meeting. The City Council may
approve, wholly or partly, may modify or amend, or may not approve the Planning
Commission's recommendation from the extent and in the manner they deem
appropriate. Such decision shall be in the form of a resolution and be binding
upon the Building & Zoning Official.
   (C)   Variances. A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this
chapter that are applicable to a particular graphic.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a graphic variance shall be
filed with the Building & Zoning Official on a prescribed form. The Building &
Zoning Official shall promptly transmit said application to the Planning
Commission. The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Commission to make an informed recommendation, and shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Location of the graphic for which the variance is sought;
         (c)   Name and address of the property owner upon which the graphic
may be located;
         (d)   Explanation of the grounds for the variance request;
         (e)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, when applied, would cause the problem;
         (f)   A site plan, sketch or other graphic, illustrating the proposed
graphic; and
         (g)   Any other pertinent information that the Building & Zoning
Official may require.
      (2)   Public hearing notice. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on each variance request within 45 days after the variance application
is submitted to them. At the hearing any interested party may appear and
testify, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice
indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the nature of the
proposed variance shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before
the hearing:
         (a)   By first-class mail to the applicant and to all owners of
property contiguous to the property affected by the proposed variance.
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (3)   Action by Planning Commission. Not later than ten days after the
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit their recommendation/
findings of fact in writing to the City Council. The Planning Commission shall
not recommend any proposed variance unless they find that it is consistent with
the general purposes of the chapter, and that the strict application of
requirements would result in great practical difficulties or hardship to the
applicant.
      (4)   Standards for variances. The Planning Commission shall not
recommend any graphic variance unless, based upon the evidence presented to
them, they determine that:
         (a)   The proposed variance is consistent with the spirit and purpose
of this chapter and will not cause injury to the area in which the graphic is/
will be located or be detrimental to the public welfare in any way;
         (b)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship while protecting the
broader public interest;
         (c)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not
of his/her own making; and
         (d)   The peculiar circumstances of the variance request are not
applicable to other graphics in the city, and therefore, that a variance would
be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment.
      (5)   Decision by the City Council. The City Council shall act on every
proposed variance at their next regularly scheduled meeting. The City Council
may approve, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend, or may not approve the
Planning Commission's recommendation from the extent and in the manner they
deem appropriate. Such decision shall be in the form of a resolution and be
binding upon the Building & Zoning Official.
   (D)   Amendments. Any party in interest, including the Code Administrator or
any member of the City Council or Planning Commission, desiring an amendment to
the text of this chapter shall file a written application therefor with the
Code Administrator.
      (1)   Application. The application shall fully explain the grounds for
the requested amendment and specify the section(s) of this chapter that, if
strictly applied, would cause great practical difficulties or hardship. The
Code Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on every application for
amendment and submit it, together with the completed application, to the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Public hearing, notice. Within 60 days of application for an
amendment to the text of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of the proposed amendment
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city, not more than 30 days, nor less than 15 days before the hearing date:
         (a)   At the same time, a copy of the notice shall be sent by first
class mail to the applicant.
      (3)   Action by the Planning Commission. Within 30 days following the
conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall prepare and
submit to the City Council an advisory report, responsive to the following
standards:
         (a)   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general purposes
of this chapter;
         (b)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the amendment request are
applicable to many tracts and, therefore, that a variation would not be a more
appropriate remedy than an amendment; and
         (c)   The amendment, if granted, will not substantially impair
implementation of the comprehensive plan, including the official map.
      (4)   Action by the City Council. At the next regularly scheduled meeting
following receipt of the advisory report from the Planning Commission, the City
Council shall act on the request for amendment.
         (a)   Without another public hearing, the City Council may vote to
either pass or reject the proposed amendment, may pass a modified version of
the amendment, or may refer it back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration.
         (b)   If the Council votes to pass the amendment or a modified version
thereof, it shall do so by ordinance at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 1-21-2014; Ord. 2016-05, passed 3-21-2016)
CHAPTER 156: STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION, SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT
CONTROL
Section
General Regulations
   
156.001   Purpose and intent
   
156.002   Applicability
   
156.003   Exemptions
   
156.004   Exceptions
   
156.005   Responsibility
   
156.006   Other relevant permitting
   
156.007   NPDES Compliance
   
156.008   Incorporation of figures and standards
   
156.009   Information accessibility to the public
   
156.010   Definitions
Stormwater Drainage and Detention
   
156.025   Drainage plan submittals
   
156.026   Drainage report
   
156.027   Drainage conveyance system design criteria
   
156.028   Design methods
   
156.029   Detention facilities
   
156.030   Other drainage requirements
Soil Erosion and Sediment Control
   
156.045   Purpose
   
156.046   Scope
   
156.047   Applicable regulations
   
156.048   General principles
   
156.049   Erosion and sediment control plan submittal requirements
   
156.050   Maintenance of control measures
   
156.051   Erosion and sediment control inspections and notifications
   
156.052   Special precautions
   
156.053   Responsibility
Long Term Maintenance Responsibility
   
156.065   Maintenance agreement
Inspections
   
156.080   Inspections
   
156.081   Special precautions
   
156.082   Amendment of plans
Permitting
   
156.095   Application for permit
   
156.096   Bond required
   
156.097   Review and approval
   
156.098   Final certification
   
156.099   Expiration of approval
Enforcement
   
156.110   Stop work order; revocation of plan approval
   
Appendix A: Standard Specifications
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 156.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to diminish threats to public health
and safety, protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote
public welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction,
use and maintenance of any new development or redevelopment or other activity
which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of
earth and/or changes the stormwater drainage pattern and/or stormwater flows
from that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its natural
state. This stormwater runoff and resulting soil erosion could result in the
inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
This chapter regulates these activities to minimize adverse impacts caused by
new development and redevelopment.
   (B)   This chapter is adopted to accomplish the following objectives:
      (1)   To assure that new development or redevelopment does not increase
the drainage or flood hazards, or create unstable conditions susceptible to
soil erosion;
      (2)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage due to increased stormwater runoff and soil erosion;
      (3)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased
flooding and soil erosion on a watershed basis;
      (4)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood-damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems and flood rescue and relief operations caused by stormwater
runoff and soil erosion quantities from new development or redevelopment;
      (5)   To protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land
and soil, water, air, animal and plant resources;
      (6)   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
and
      (7)   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in
order to manage flood and stormwater impacts, improve water and groundwater
quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, maintain
quality forest resources, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits and enhance community and economic development.
      (8)   To comply with the General National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) Permit No. ILR40 regulations and the Notice of intent (NOI)
submitted to the IEPA in 2003.
      (9)   To establish requirements and promote regular, planned maintenance
of stormwater management facilities.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.002 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all new development or redevelopment in the city.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, persons, the state and its
agencies or political subdivisions, the United States of America and its
agencies or political subdivisions, or any agent, servant, officer or employee
of any of the foregoing which meets the following provisions, shall not
commence any development activities without first having obtained development
plan approval from the code enforcement officer of the city:
   (A)   Any new development or redevelopment containing an area 5,000 or more
square feet of total impervious surface (i.e., streets, roof, patio or parking
area or any combination thereof);
   (B)   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, grading, stripping,
excavation, fill or any combination thereof) that affects an area of 10,000 or
more square feet;
   (C)   Any development that results in change in the direction of stormwater
runoff from a site;
   (D)   Any activity resulting in a wetland impact; and
   (E)   Any development that is located partially or completely in a
regulatory floodway or floodplain.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.003 EXEMPTIONS.
   Development plan approval shall not be required for the following:
   (A)   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District and including the construction of agricultural
structures;
   (B)   The maintenance of any existing stormwater drainage/detention
component or structure or any existing soil erosion/sediment control component
or structure; including dredging, tree removal or other function which
maintains the original design capacities of the above; and
   (C)   The construction of, improvements to or the maintenance of any street
performed by any unit of government whose powers grant that authority except as
follows:
      (1)   Public road developments performed by units of government that
result in less than 1.5 acres of new impervious area or less than the 1.5 acres
of impervious area per linear mile shall meet the stormwater detention, water
quality and buffer standards to the maximum extent practical due to the limited
site conditions.
      (2)   Public road developments performed by units of government that
result in more than 1.5 acres of new impervious area or more than 1.5 acres of
impervious area per linear mile shall meet the standards of this section.
   (D)   The city may deny or revoke any exemption pursuant to the section at
any time for any project that the municipality believes may pose a threat to
the public health, safety, property, or the environment.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.004 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may, in accordance with the following procedures,
authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations set forth in
this chapter:
   (A)   Exceptions to the city requirements within this chapter shall be made
by application for a variation, stating fully the grounds of the application
and the facts relied upon by the applicant The application shall be filed in
the Building and Zoning Department In order for the application to be granted,
it shall be necessary that the Planning Commission find all of the following
facts with the respect to the land referred to in the application:
      (1)   That the land is of a shape or size or is affected by such physical
conditions or is subject to such title limitations or record, that it is
impractical for the applicant to comply with all of the requirements of this
chapter;
      (2)   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
      (3)   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of
the subject's property.
   (B)   Each application for a variation shall be made to the Code Enforcement
Officer. The Administrator will review and transmit the application to the
Planning Commission, which shall review the application.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on each
application for variation within 30 days after receiving the application in the
manner prescribed by ordinance. Within 30 days after public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council. The City
Council will render a decision in the form of a written resolution which will
note if the request is approved or denied and the conditions thereof, or it
shall take other action as appropriate.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.005 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons
or property otherwise imposed by law, and the city or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for the damage by:
   (A)   Approval of the development plan under this chapter;
   (B)   Compliance with conditions attached to it by the code enforcement
officer;
   (C)   Failure of the city officials to observe or recognize hazardous or
unsightly conditions;
   (D)   Failure of the city officials to recommend denial or to deny a
development plan; or
   (E)   Exemptions from development plan requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.006 OTHER RELEVANT PERMITTING.
   (A)   Other permitting. All permits required by Federal, state and local
authorities shall be officially approved prior to the issuance of improvement
plan approval The acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility
of the applicant. These may include, but are not limited to, § 404 of the Clean
Waters Act, § 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act, permitting
required by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources in accordance with the Rivers, Lakes and Streams Act, ILCS Ch. 615,
the Soil and Water Conservation Districts Act, ILCS Ch. 70, the Farmland
Preservation Act, ILCS Ch. 505, the Illinois Groundwater Protection Act, ILCS
Ch. 415 and the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (NPDES)
through the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Water
Pollution Control. Compliance is also required with the city's zoning
ordinance.
   (B)   For general but not inclusive locations of designated wetlands refer
to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S. Department of Interior, Fish and
Wildlife Service and the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of
Resource Conservation; National Wetlands Inventory Mapping. The applicant may
be required to provide a field investigation by a qualified wetland delineator.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.007 NPDES COMPLIANCE.
   New and redevelopment that is applicable to this chapter (per §
156.002) must comply with the NDPES regulations (the General NPDES Permit No.
ILR40 and the Notice of Intent (NOI) for the particular site being developed).
NPDES compliance is obtained by adhering to this chapter, completing the NPDES
NOI permit application, and getting an ILR40 permit.
   (A)   According to the General NPDES Permit No. ILR40 and the NOI, the city
will comply and implement activities as outlined in the sections for:
      (1)   Public education and outreach on stormwater impacts.
      (2)   Public involvement/participation.
      (3)   Illicit discharge detection and elimination.
      (4)   Construction site stormwater runoff control.
      (5)   Post-construction stormwater management in new development and
redevelopment.
      (6)   Pollution prevention/good housekeeping.
   (B)   For all regulated activities described in §
156.002, pre- and post-construction erosion and sediment control measures and
stormwater management BMPs shall be designed, implemented, operated, and
maintained to meet the purposes and requirements of this chapter. Various BMPs
and their design standards are listed in the “Illinois Urban Manual.”
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.008 INCORPORATION OF FIGURES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Certain design concepts, standards and related matters addressed
herein are further clarified by illustrations and examples contained in
Appendix A to this chapter.
   (B)   The requirements indicated in the appendices shall be as effective and
binding as the narrative portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.009 INFORMATION ACCESSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC.
   Documents relating to the adherence to this chapter are available for review
by request at City Hall.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.010 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions in §
153.008, for the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERSE IMPACTS. Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality and quantity.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or BEE. The elevation at all locations delineating the
level of flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event, which has
a 1% chance of occurring in any given year.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMP. A measure used to control the adverse
stormwater-related effects of development, and includes structural devices
(e.g., pre-treatment grit catch basins, storage tanks, etc.), green
infrastructure, (e.g., swales, filter strips, infiltration trenches, and site
runoff storage basins designed to remove pollutants, reduce runoff rates and
volumes, and protect habitats) and nonstructural approaches, such as public
education efforts to prevent the dumping of household chemicals into storm
drains.
   BUFFER. An area of predominantly vegetated land adjacent to channels,
wetlands, lakes, or ponds for the purpose of stabilizing banks and reducing
contaminants, including sediments, in stormwater that flows to such areas.
   BYPASS FLOWS. Stormwater runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system, but not under its control. Many times, this is a
pre-existing condition.
   CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a storm
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer
and to allow stormwater runoff to enter the sewer.
   CHANNEL. Any defined river, stream, creek, on-stream lake or impoundment,
ditch, culvert, gully, ravine, or natural or human-made drainageway, which has
a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into which surface or groundwater
flows, either constantly or intermittently.
   CHANNEL MODIFICATION. Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. CHANNEL MODIFICATION includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. CHANNEL MODIFICATION does not include clearing human-made
debris or removal of trash.
   COMPENSATORY STORAGE. An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structure are placed within the floodplain.
   CONDUIT. Any pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or movement of
water, whether open or closed.
   CRITICAL DURATION STORM. The design storm which provides the highest flood
discharges/water surface elevation for the flooding source.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of stormwater runoff and the controlled release by gravity of
this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
   DETENTION TIME. The amount of time stormwater is held within a detention
basin.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing stormwater drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, swale, dry stream, creek or ditch which
naturally carries stormwater runoff or which is fed by street or building
gutters or by stormwater sewers.
   DRY BASIN. A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of
stormwater flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
   EROSION. The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
   EXCESS STORMWATER RUNOFF. The volume and rate of flow of stormwater
discharged from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in
excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That area as designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and regulatory floodplains and may or may not depict
regulatory floodways.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation.
   FLOODWAY. The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on-
stream lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and
convey the anticipated existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge
with no more than a 0.1-foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood
conveyance or storage and no more than a 10% increase in velocities.
   FREEBOARD. An increment of height added to the BFE, groundwater table, or
100-year design water surface elevation to provide a factor of safety for
uncertainties in calculations, unknown local conditions, wave action, non-
stationary climate, and unpredictable effects such as those caused by debris
jams.
   GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE. Any stormwater management technique or practice that
reduces runoff volume through preserving, restoring, using, or enhancing the
processes of infiltration, evapotranspiration, and reuse. Approaches may
include green roofs, naturalized detention facilities, trees and tree boxes,
rain gardens, vegetated swales, vegetated buffers, wetlands, infiltration
planters, porous and permeable pavements, porous piping systems, dry wells,
vegetated median strips, reforestation/revegetation, rain barrels, and
cisterns, and protection and enhancement of riparian buffers and floodplains.
   HYDROGRAPH. A graph showing for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
   ILLINOIS URBAN MANUAL. A publication of best management practices commonly
used in an urban setting produced by the Association of Illinois Soil and Water
Conservation Districts, published October 2013. http://www.aiswcd.oorg/
illinois-urban-manual/
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb water,
such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts, roofs and
other structures.
   INFILTRATION. The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
   INLET. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a storm sewer,
designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer and to
allow stormwater runoff to enter the sewer.
   KARST. A type of topography or landscape characterized by features,
including but not limited to, surface depressions, sinkholes, rock pinnacles/
uneven bedrock surfaces, underground drainage, and caves. Karst is formed on
carbonate rocks, such as limestone or dolomite.
   LOESSAL SOIL. A sediment, commonly non-stratified and unconsolidated,
composed predominately of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
   MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system generally
consisting of storm sewers/ culverts or swales/ ditches that directly connect
to a street system in dedicated easements between property lines that directly
convey storm water to the street or road storm sewers or detention facilities.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE. Highest level of runoff volume reduction that is
achievable for the development as determined by the applicant and approved by
the City Engineer.
   MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM. That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public and generally on private property. It consists of
yard inlets, pipe drains from downspouts, small open channels, and yard sales
and, where manmade, is to be designed to handle the two-year runoff event.
   MODIFIED RATIONAL METHOD. As described in the Illinois Department of
Transportation “Drainage Manual,” this method is based on the principal that
the maximum rate of runoff from a given drainage area occurs at that point in
time when all parts of the watershed are contributing to the flow. The rainfall
generating the peak flow is assumed to be of uniform intensity for the entire
watershed when the rainfall duration is equal to the time of concentration.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). The NPDES permit
program was created in 1972 by the Clean Water Act, (CWA). The CWA prohibits
anybody for discharging “pollutants” through a “point source” into a water of
the United States unless they have an NPDES permit. The permit will contain
limits on what can be discharged, monitoring and reporting requirements, and
other provisions such as erosion control at construction sites to ensure that
discharge does not hurt water quality or people's health.
   ONE HUNDRED-YEAR (100-YEAR) STORM EVENT. A rainfall, runoff or flood event
having a 1% chance of occurring in any given year.
   OVERLAND FLOW PATH. A design feature of the major stormwater system which
carries flows in excess of the minor stormwater system design capacity in an
open channel or swale, or as sheet flow or weir flow over a feature designed to
withstand the particular erosive forces involved.
   PEAK FLOW. The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel
or conduit.
   POSITIVE DRAINAGE. Providing overland flow paths for all areas of a
property, including depression areas, which drain to channels or storm sewer.
   RETENTION BASIN (WET PONDS). A facility designed to completely retain a
specified amount of stormwater runoff without release except by means of
evaporation, infiltration, emergency bypass or pumping.
   RUNOFF. The water or drainage derived from melting snow or rain falling on
the land surface, flowing over the surface of the ground, or collected in
channels or conduits.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris, and other materials
- either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or stormwater drainage
systems.
   SINKHOLE (KARST AREAS). A land surface depression or blind valley which may
or may not have surface openings to cavernous underground areas and are the
result of water movement through silts and jointed limestone. These conditions
make the areas unstable and susceptible to subsidence and surface collapse.
Fractures in the limestone may channel runoff water to public or private water
supplies, making those sources especially susceptible to groundwater
contamination.
   SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE. The line which delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed one foot vertical in six foot horizontal
and where special erosion control precautions must be taken.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit or pipe for conveying collected stormwater.
   STORMWATER. Runoff from the surface of the land resulting from precipitation
or snow or ice melt.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural and human-made, used for
conveying stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to the point of final
outlet from a property. The STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM includes but is not
limited to any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features, canals,
channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention basins,
swales and pumping stations.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). Set of drawings or other
documents submitted as a prerequisite to obtaining a stormwater management
approval, which contains all information and specifications of drainage systems
and environmental features proposed after the development of a property.
   STREAM. Any river, creek, branch, or natural or human-made drainageway which
has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into which surface or
groundwater flows, either constantly or intermittently.
   TEN-YEAR (10-YEAR) STORM EVENT. A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a
10% chance of occurring in any given year.
   TIME OF CONCENTRATION. The elapsed time for stormwater to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
   TRIBUTARY WATERSHED. All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to
a given point.
   TWENTY-FIVE YEAR (25-YEAR) STORM EVENT. A runoff, rainfall, or flood event
having a 4% chance of occurring in any given year.
   TWO-YEAR (2-YEAR) EVENT. A runoff, rainfall or flood event having a 50%
chance of occurring in any given year.
   VOLUME CONTROL STORAGE. The volume of storage required to detain a specified
amount of runoff from the new impervious area of development on the site.
   WATER TABLE. The upper limit of a free water surface in a saturated soil or
underlying material.
   WATERSHED. All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same
stream, creek, ditch, lake, marsh, stormwater facility, groundwater or
depressional area.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES (WOTUS). The term refers to wetlands, streams,
and water bodies that are under the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers regulatory
jurisdiction.
   WET BASIN. A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of stormwater runoff.
   WETLANDS. Defined by regulation as “those areas that are inundated or
saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to
support, and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions.”
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION
§ 156.025 DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTALS.
   Each applicant shall submit the following information to ensure that the
provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the
potential adverse impacts and benefits of the development on water resources
both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan
in managing stormwater runoff, and meet the provisions of §
156.002. The applicant's “Engineer's Hydraulic/Hydrologic Drainage Summary and
Certification” shall include the following information submitted for both
existing and proposed property conditions for all new development or
redevelopment:
   (A)   Topographic mapping. A topographic survey of the property at two-foot
contours unless otherwise specified or approved by the city. If the mapping is
compiled using a digital format (CAD) and the global positioning system (GPS),
the applicant will provide both paper and digital copies including CAD drawings
and GPS points.
   (B)   Aerial mapping. An aerial photograph of the property including all
off-site areas that contribute drainage to the site.
   (C)   Site drainage plan. A plan showing existing drainage and proposed
drainage for the property and 100 feet surrounding the property at a scale of
not more than 100 feet to one inch and including the following:
      (1)   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of licensed professional
engineer, date and name of person preparing plans;
      (2)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its general
surroundings at a scale of not less than 2,000 feet to one inch;
      (3)   Property boundary, dimension and approximate acreage;
      (4)   Building setback lines;
      (5)   All existing or proposed easements;
      (6)   All existing and proposed structures and sizes;
      (7)   Roads, streets and associated stormwater inlets including finished
grades;
      (8)   All existing, abandoned or proposed water main or monitoring
wellhead locations;
      (9)   All sanitary or combined sewer lines, septic systems and aeration
systems;
      (10)   Banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      (11)   Shoreline of lakes, ponds and detention basins with normal water
level elevation;
      (12)   Known farm drains and tiles;
      (13)   Location, size and slope of stormwater pipes and drainage swales;
      (14)   Depressional storage areas;
      (15)   Detention and/or retention facilities;
      (16)   Direction of storm flows for each lot in the development indicated
by flow arrows in front, sides and rear of all lots;
      (17)   Area in square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface;
      (18)   Off-site drainage areas contributing runoff to the site;
      (19)   Base flood elevation, flood fringe, and regulatory floodway;
      (20)   The limits of designated regulatory and non-regulatory wetland
areas;
      (21)   The location and limits of known sinkholes (i.e. karst areas);
      (22)   Any known designated natural areas, prime farmland; and
      (23)   Any known proposed environmental mitigation features.
   (D)   Mapping. A copy of the Soil and Water Conservation District maps for
the property including all off-site areas that contribute drainage to the site
and the applicable soils classification data.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.026 DRAINAGE REPORT.
   A narrative report and all computations that support the design of the
drainage system to include:
   (A)   Design narrative and computations.
      (1)   A statement describing the basis of design for the final drainage
network components and any applicable engineering assumptions and calculations;
      (2)   A statement of the drainage system's provision for handling events
greater than the 100-year, 24-hour runoff by a state licensed professional
engineer. Emergency overflow paths should be provided to prevent building
structure flooding for events greater than the 100-year, 24-hour storm.
      (3)   Hydraulic calculations, prepared by a professional engineer
licensed by the state shall be provided for all proposed storm sewers, ditches
and curbs.
      (4)   Flow rates and velocities at critical points in the drainage system
(e.g., in pipes, at pipe outfalls, and in conveyance ditches) including in the
supporting documentation;
      (5)   Cross-section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths;
   (B)   Detention report requirements. For detention facilities in general,
the engineer must submit the following for review of the detention facility:
      (1)   Elevation vs. discharge tables or curves for all frequencies;
      (2)   Elevation vs. storage tables or curves for all frequencies;
      (3)   Inflow calculations and data for all frequencies;
      (4)   Site plan showing appropriate design information including tables
(see example below) that summarize data from (a), (b), and (c) above;
“DESIGN” - SUMMARY OF FLOWS FROM BASIN AT GIVEN STORM DURATIONS
                                  PRE-DEV. POST-DEVELOPMENT
STORM     DURATION POOL  STORAGE  TOTAL    LOW-FLOW  OVERFLOW  TOTAL OUTLET
FREQUENCY          ELEV. (CU. FT) FLOW     (CFS)     (CFS)     FLOW  VELOCITY
                                  (CFS)                        (CFS) (FPS)
“DESIGN” - SUMMARY OF FLOWS FROM BASIN AT GIVEN STORM DURATIONS
                                   PRE-DEV. POST-DEVELOPMENT
STORM     DURATION POOL   STORAGE  TOTAL    LOW-FLOW  OVERFLOW  TOTAL OUTLET
FREQUENCY          ELEV.  (CU. FT) FLOW     (CFS)     (CFS)     FLOW  VELOCITY
                                   (CFS)                        (CFS) (FPS)
NORMAL    2HR      526.00 0        -        -         -         -     -
POOL
2-YEAR    2HR      528.20 117,750  10.70    11.10     0.00      11.10 2.5
5-YEAR    2 HR     528.60 165,412  18.10    7.30      11.10     18.40 3.2
10-YEAR   2HR      529.50 234,796  23.95    7.54      16.44     23.98 4.1
100-YEAR  2 HR     530.50 274,938  24.00    8.60      15.45     24.05 4.8
 
      (5)   Hydraulic grade-line computations for pipes entering and leaving
the basin for all frequencies;
      (6)   if the embankment contains fill material, a levee/dam, or if a
retention (i.e. wet) pond is proposed, a geotechnical report is required;
      (7)   Structural calculations for the outlet control structures.
      (8)   100-year stage discharge hydrograph.
   (C)   Minimizing stormwater runoff volumes and release rates.
      (1)   Release rates. In the selection of a drainage plan for a new
development or redevelopment, the applicant shall evaluate and implement site
design features which prevent the increase in runoff volumes and rates from the
site for the most critical design storms.
      (2)   The applicant's drainage plan submittal shall include evaluations
of site design features which are consistent with the following hierarchy:
         (a)   Preserve regulatory floodplains, flood-prone and wetland areas;
         (b)   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with
the needs of the project;
         (c)   Provide infiltration of runoff on-site;
         (d)   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions and preserves the existing natural stream channel;
         (e)   Provide stormwater retention structures;
         (f)   Provide wet or wetland retention structures;
         (g)   Provide dry detention structures; and
         (h)   Construct storm sewers.
   (D)   Water quality.
      (1)   The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface
and groundwater quality impacts off-site, to adjacent properties, and on the
property, itself. When designers propose detention or retention pond designs,
all flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e., flows
from any storm event shall not bypass the ponds).
      (2)   Only if allowed by the City Engineer as an exceptional
circumstance, when it is not practical or feasible to route all of the
project's flow to the detention basin, the design of the basin shall compensate
for the bypass flow, and the designer must prove that the bypass flow will not
cause downstream problems such as flooding or erosion.
      (3)   In cases where detention facilities are practical and the long-term
maintenance of the facilities are provided for, detention of stormwater shall
be promoted throughout the property's drainage system to reduce the volume of
stormwater runoff and to reduce the quantity of runoff pollutants. For example,
detention basins shall incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff
pollutants.
      (4)   The developer is encouraged to consider creative ways to manage
stormwater impacts. As such, the development may provide water quality
treatment for runoff from increased impervious areas to minimize impacts of
post-development stormwater runoff on water quality. If used, the drainage
report shall include a description of the water quality protection and volume
control measures incorporated into the design. Volume control practices may be
incorporated into the detention plan as a water quality control practices. If
used, the first inch of runoff from the new impervious area of development on
the site is considered the water quality control storage. For example, green
infrastructure such as permeable pavement or infiltration basins may be used as
a best management practices for water quality treatment and volume control
practices.
   (E)   Multiple uses. The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses to
the maximum extent practicable. Uses considered compatible with stormwater
management include open use, aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating,
fishing, trails), wetlands, and water quality mitigation.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.027 DRAINAGE CONVEYANCE SYSTEM DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   The minor drainage system shall provide for capacity to pass the two-
year peak flow rate without flooding/ damaging property during the critical
100-year storm event.
   (B)   The major drainage system shall provide for capacity to pass the ten-
year peak flow rate with safe passage of the critical 100-year storm event.
Storm sewer design shall be sized on the assumption that they will flow full
under the design discharge but will not be placed under the pressure head.
Hydraulic grade line calculations shall be performed that demonstrate that
sewer rims are not inundated at the design storm.
   (C)   Culvert and storm sewer design and construction shall conform to the
IDOT Drainage Design Manual, unless defined otherwise in this section.
   (D)   All drainage systems shall provide an overland flow path that will
pass the 100-year event flow at a stage at least one foot below the lowest
grade, adjacent to a structure, in the vicinity of the flow path. If the
drainage area is less than 20 acres, the major drainage system pipes and inlets
may be sized for the 100-year flow instead of providing an overland flow path.
      (1)   The overland flow path shall be protected from any development,
such as fencing, landscaping, storage sheds, pools, or other obstructions which
could impair its function by impeding flow. This protection shall be
established through a properly recorded covenant running with the land,
restricting the use of the overland flow path area.
      (2)   Structures adjacent to an overland flow path shall have a lowest
opening elevation six inches above the base flood elevation (BFE) for tributary
areas 20 acres or less or one foot above the BFE for tributary areas greater
than 20 acres.
   (E)   Street ponding and flow depths shall conform to IDOT Drainage Manual
allowable encroachment requirements but in no case shall exceed curb heights.
   (F)   The minimum diameter for storm sewers shall be 12 inches.
   (G)   The minimum diameter for road culverts shall be 15 inches. A minimum
of two feet of freeboard shall be provided below the roadway shoulder to the
25-year flood elevation.
   (H)   All storm sewer pipes under roads or sidewalks shall be reinforced
concrete pipe, Class II minimum, conforming to applicable sections of the IDOT
standard specifications for road and bridge construction, latest edition. Under
grass areas the use of corrugated polyethylene (PE) pipe with a smooth interior
is allowed conforming to the applicable sections of the IDOT standard
specifications for road and bridge construction, latest edition. The use of any
other storm sewer pipe or materials must be approved by the City Engineer.
   (I)    Culverts and storm sewers constructed in residential subdivisions
shall be extended to the rear of the lots. Storm sewers will not be allowed to
terminate in the front or middle of a lot.
   (J)   Permanent erosion control protection must be provided at the ends of
discharging storm sewer pipes in which the storm event velocity exceeds two
feet per second.
   (K)   Storm sewers designed with greater than 10% slope or with discharge
velocities greater than five feet per second (fps), shall have approximately 20
feet of the pipe constructed at 0.5% slope at the outlet and shall have an
erosion control system provided.
   (L)   Curb inlet and catch basin spacing shall not exceed a maximum gutter
drainage flow distance of 250 feet. Inlet and basin spacing shall also be
provided as needed to limit stormwater encroachment into the driving lane to
six feet during the design storm for a minor drainage system.
   (M)   All new or improved stormwater drainage swales created in new
developments shall not allow overland drainage to exceed 250 feet without being
captured by a storm sewer system. The velocity of flow in these drainage swales
shall not exceed five fps unless measures are taken to avoid erosion.
   (N)   No paved surface overland flow grades and/or slopes shall be greater
than 1.0%. Paved surface overland flow grades and/or slopes for swales and
ditches shall not have a slope less than 0.3%.
   (O)   Reinforced concrete paved swales and ditches a minimum of four feet
wide are required to be designed and constructed for any drainage swale with a
slope less than 1.0%.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.028 DESIGN METHODS.
   (A)   Peak discharge. Site runoff control for large storms, up to the 100-
year event, is essential to protect against immediate downstream erosion and
flooding.
      (1)   Post-development discharge rates for new developments and
redevelopments shall not exceed the existing condition discharge rates.
      (2)   Any concentrated stormwater discharges leaving the site must be
conveyed into an existing channel, storm sewer, or overland flow path with
adequate downstream stormwater capacity and will not result in increased
erosion, flood damage, or other drainage hazards. In addition to discharge
rate, demonstration of this shall include a comparison of existing and post-
development velocity, volume, and hydrograph at the location where stormwater
leaves the site. Post-development velocity and runoff volume shall be less than
110% of the existing conditions for the 100-year critical duration storm.
      (3)   The design of stormwater management systems shall not result in any
transfer of water between watersheds unless no reasonable alternative exists as
determined by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Calculation methodology.
      (1)   Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
State Water Survey's Bulletin 70.
         (a)   The first quartile point rainfall distribution shall be used for
the design and analysis of conveyance systems with critical durations less than
or equal to six hours.
         (b)   The second quartile distribution shall be used for storms with
durations greater than six hours and less than or equal to 12 hours.
         (c)   The third quartile point rainfall distribution shall be used for
the design and analysis of detention basins and conveyance system with critical
durations greater than 12 and less than or equal to 24 hours.
         (d)   The fourth quartile distribution shall be used in the design and
analysis of systems with durations greater than 24 hours.
         (e)   The NRCS Type II distribution may be used as an alternate to the
Huff distributions.
         (f)   The total rainfall value for the design storm shall be adjusted
for the “St. Louis Urban Effect” as given in Table 4, Illinois State Water
Survey Circular 172.
      (2)   The rational method may be used to calculate discharges for
drainage areas of 20 acres or less and the storm water conveyance (i.e. storm
sewer) design. The rational method shall not be used to determine detention
storage requirements.
         (a)   TR-55 may be used to calculate discharges for areas that drain
less than 100 acres. TR-55 with a pond-routing program such as TR-20 or HEC-
1 may be used to confirm stormwater storage requirements.
         (b)   TR-20, WinTR-20, HEC-1, HEC-HMS, or a city approved hydrograph
producing a hydrotogic model shall be used to determine the peak runoff rates
for areas with a drainage area greater than 100 acres and to confirm the
stormwater storage requirements for facilities that have a drainage area of ten
acres or more.
         (c)   Runoff calculations for all off-site tributary land shall be
based on either the anticipated future land use conditions or existing land use
conditions as approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Antecedent moisture. Average antecedent moisture conditions shall be
assumed when calculating runoff curve numbers for use in the NRCS (SCS) TR-55
method.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.029 DETENTION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Release rates. Post-development discharge rates for new developments
and redevelopments shall not exceed the existing condition discharge rates from
the property for the two-year, ten-year, 25-year, 50-year, and 100-year
critical storm event to discharge rates at or below those which existed prior
to development. As a minimum to determine the critical storm, the one-hour,
two-hour, three-hour, six-hour, 12-hour, and 24-hour storm events shall be
analyzed. Additionally, the discharge from a stormwater detention facility
shall not cause an increase in flooding or channel instability downstream when
considered in aggregate with other developed properties and downstream drainage
capacities.
   (B)   Design methodologies.
      (1)   Detention, along with green infrastructure, non-structural and
structural BMPs, are recommended for projects involving more than half an acre
of new impervious area.
      (2)   Green infrastructure and non-structural BMPs are required to
control stormwater runoff for projects with less than one quarter of an acre of
new impervious area.
   (C)   Detention basin outlet design.
      (1)   The detention basin outlet control structure shall be designed to
account for observed or anticipated downstream tail water elevations. The
tailwater elevations used in the detention model shall be for the particular
storm frequency being routed through the detention basin.
      (2)   An emergency spillway or overflow device shall be provided and set
at an elevation equivalent to the 100-year design high water.
         (a)   The maximum high water elevation shall be computed based on a
routing of the design storm (100-year critical storm event or 24-hour event,
whichever produces the higher pond elevation) assuming the low flow outlet is
blocked with high water elevation at the overflow structure's sill.
         (b)   A minimum freeboard of one foot shall be provided above the
design high water elevation. The freeboard should be measured from the design
high water elevation to the top of the berm.
         (c)   The overflow path shall not be located on top of the outlet
pipe.
      (3)   The outflow pipe shall be sized for the developed flow rate.
      (4)   Control structures and overflow structures are to be reinforced
concrete, including precast. Other approved materials may be allowed only for
underground detention with the approval of the City Engineer.
      (5)   Minimum detention outlet size. Where a single pipe outlet or
orifice plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum
diameter of 12 inches. If this minimum orifice size permits release rates
greater than those specified in this section, and regional detention is not a
practical alternative, outlets, structures such as perforated risers or multi-
stage flow control orifices/weirs shall be used. For example, in smaller basins
a smaller rectangular or V-notch weir could be used to control discharge with
the approval of the City Engineer. The minimum area for an individual control
device in a multi-stage control is 12.56 square inches (equivalent to a four-
inch circular pipe).
   (D)   General detention pond requirements.
      (1)   Pool elevation for ponds. The limits of maximum ponding in dry
basins or ponds and permanent lakes or ponds shall not be closer than 30 feet
horizontally to any building, and not less than two feet vertically between the
lowest sill elevation of any building.
      (2)   Pool Elevation for parking lots. The limits of maximum ponding in
parking lots shall not be closer than ten feet horizontally from any building
and not less than one foot vertically below the lowest sill elevation of any
building. Parking lots used for automobiles shall have a maximum depth of six
inches of water.
      (3)   Detention basin elevations:
         (a)   If the detention basin discharges to a piped sewer system, the
low elevation of the detention basin shall be above the 25-year, critical storm
hydraulic elevation of the receiving storm systems, as applicable.
         (b)   If the detention basin discharges to an open channel, or to a
piped sewer system affected by flood levels in a nearby downstream open
channel, then the low elevation of the basin is desirable to be above the 100-
year flood elevation in the open channel as established by the FEMA Flood
Insurance Study.
         (c)   In all cases mentioned above, if the low elevation of the basin
is below the receiving system hydraulic grade or channel flood elevation, then
the basin shall be sized to store the entire design storm volume, unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   The maximum side slopes for dry basins or ponds, and the
fluctuating area of permanent ponds or lakes shall be three to one (three feet
horizontal, one foot) vertical without fencing.
      (5)   Dry basins or ponds and the fluctuating areas of permanent ponds or
lakes are to be appropriately vegetated to the maximum high water elevation.
Areas above that elevation shall be appropriately stabilized and vegetated. Sod
and mowing above that elevation may be approved and is required for dam
embankment slopes and downstream toe areas for wet basins where riprap is not
appropriate.
      (6)   Permanent erosion control protection must be provided at the ends
of discharging pipes or swales in which the storm event velocity exceeds two
feet per second. Stone riprap, scour stop, or appropriate vegetation are
required, unless otherwise approved.
      (7)   In basins with concrete walls or riprap covered slopes, provisions
should be made for mowing equipment to reach the bottom (ramps or similar).
      (8)   Railroad tie walls cannot be used where water will be in contact
with the railroad tie wall.
      (9)   Detention basin fencing. A four-foot (minimum) fence shall be
provided around the perimeter of any basin where the side slopes exceed three
to one (three feet horizontal, one foot vertical). Fencing material shall be
approved by the city and shall NOT consist of post and rail or other fencing
which prevents easy observation of required detention basin maintenance. For
example, privacy fencing should not be used.
      (10)   Existing depressional storage volume will be maintained and the
volume of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this chapter
shall be in addition to existing storage.
      (11)   Detention on prime farm land. The placement of detention basins
shall avoid the utilization of prime farmland. All detention basin construction
shall examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate the impacts.
      (12)   Basin inlet and outlet orientation. The distance between detention
inlets and outlets shall be maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at opposite
ends of the basin, providing that the orientation does not create undue
hardship based on topography or other natural constraints. There shall be no
low flow bypass between the inlet and outlet, and paved low flow channels shall
not be used.
      (13)   Any development involving the construction, modification, or
removal of a dam as defined in 17 Ill. Admin. Code Part 3702 (rules of
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR dam safety permit or a letter
stating no permit is required prior to the start of such activity.
      (14)   Infiltration Basins. Infiltration basins may be used as detention
facilities subject to the following:
         (a)   The basin must be designed to dewater within 48 hours following
the end of the 100-year critical duration storm event.
         (b)   The underlying soils must have an infiltration rate of at least
0.5 inches/hour as determined by an engineer.
         (c)   Pretreatment facilities mush be provided to prevent obstruction.
         (d)   The basin must be at least 200 feet away from any water supply
wells.
         (e)   Runoff from the areas that have water quality concerns or are
subject to frequent winter deicing must not be routed to the infiltration
facility.
         (f)   The bottom of the infiltration basin must be at least four feet
above the seasonal high groundwater elevation.
         (g)   Infiltration BMPs shall be selected and located based on
suitability of soil and shall be constructed where a minimum depth of 24 inches
between the bottom of the facility and the infiltration horizon exists. Soil
tests, taken at the same location that the BMP will exist, shall demonstrate a
stabilized infiltration rate.
         (h)   Areas proposed for infiltration BMPs shall be protected from
sedimentation and compaction during construction.
         (i)   Infiltration BMPs shall not receive runoff from disturbed areas
until the entire contributory drainage area is stabilized with vegetation.
         (j)   It is ideal for roof drains and sump pumps to be tributary to
infiltration or vegetative BMPs. Catchment facilities for water re-use is also
permitted.
      (15)   As-built survey. 
         (a)   An as-built survey of the detention basin showing the final
constructed slopes, storage volumes, and outlet structure configuration shall
be submitted to the City Engineer for approval prior to the issuing of any
building permits.
         (b)   As part of the as-built survey, a monument shall be set to
reference the predicted detention basin high water elevation. The monument
should be labeled “100-year storm high water” and should be graded to the
proper elevation and be located on a common ground near the pond outlet pipe.
      (16)   Pond ownership. Residential detention/retention basins shall be
located on outlots maintained by the homeowners association. Commercial or
industrial basins shall be located in a regional outlot owned by a corporation
or on the developed lot and maintained by the commercial property owner. A
special service area may be created for potential maintenance by the city
should the homeowners' association or corporation become defunct, unable, or
unwilling to provide sufficient maintenance of the detention/retention basin
(s).
   (E)   Wet detention basin design (retention). In addition to the other
requirements of this subchapter, wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove stormwater pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      (1)   Wet basin depths. Wet basins shall be at least three feet deep,
excluding near-shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be
provided, they shall be at least eight feet deep over 25% of the bottom area to
prevent winter kill.
      (2)   Wet basin shoreline slopes. The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than three to one (horizontal to
vertical). It is recommended that aquatic vegetation be established around the
perimeter to provide protection from shoreline erosion. For basins in excess of
five acres, riprap shoreline protection shall be provided.
      (3)   Permanent pool volume. The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall, at a minimum, be equal to the runoff volume from its
watershed for the two-year, 24-hour event (calculated during dry weather
conditions).
      (4)   Permanent pool depth. Permanent retention ponds or lakes are to be
designed to minimize fluctuating lake levels. Maximum fluctuation from the
permanent pool elevation to the maximum ponding elevation shall be three feet.
      (5)   Soil borings. To ensure soils are conducive to impound water, if a
retention (i.e., wet) pond is proposed, a geotechnical report with soil borings
is required.
   (F)   Dry detention basin design. In addition to the other requirements of
this subchapter, dry basins shall be designed to remove stormwater pollutants,
to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as much as feasible to be
available for multiple uses. Paved low flow channels may be used in a dry
basin, provided provisions are made to prevent ponding.
      (1)   Dry basin drainage. Dry basins shall be designed so that 80% of
their bottom area shall have standing water no longer than 72 hours for any
runoff event less than the 100-year event. Grading plans shall clearly
distinguish the wet portion of the basin bottom. Underdrains directed to the
outlet may be used to accomplish this requirement.
      (2)   Velocity dissipation. Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize resuspension of pollutants.
      (3)   Maximum depths. The maximum depth of water in a dry detention basin
or pond shall not exceed four feet. Projects which need a deeper basin to
attain the required detention volume due to physical constraints may be
evaluated on a case-by-case basis. The design and construction of dams greater
than six feet or as directed by the city must be sealed and certified by a
professional engineer registered in the state with demonstrated expertise in
geotechnical engineering.
      (4)   Flow through the pond. All ends of pipes discharging into a dry
basin or pond shall be conveyed to the low flow pipe or control structure, by
means of a concrete swale or permeable swale meeting the following criteria.
         (a)   Vegetated swales shall be a minimum four to one lateral (25%)
slope to the center and a minimum 2% longitudinal slope to ensure positive
drainage. Permeable swales shall be a minimum of six inches deep and four feet
wide or 1.3 times the diameter of the pipe entering the basin, whichever is
greater. The bottom of the detention basin shall be sloped a minimum of 2%
towards the edge of the swale.
         (b)   Reinforced concrete paved swales according to the typical
details are required to convey swales with a slope less than 1%.
   (G)   Underground detention basin design.
      (1)   Adequate access for basin maintenance and inspection shall be
provided. A means of visual inspection from the ground surface of the low flow
device, overflow weir and outlet structure is necessary. Access shall also be
provided to allow for cleaning of the low flow device from the ground surface.
      (2)   Underground basins shall be acceptable for non-residential projects
only.
      (3)   Acceptable materials for underground basins are poured-in-place or
precast reinforced concrete, RCP, HDPE, and aluminized CMP. The CMP gauge shall
be approved by the city prior to installation.
      (4)   Provide immediate manhole access from ground surface for both sides
of the low flow device. Also, provide a manhole at upstream end of underground
basins, for access, inspection, to facilitate maintenance and air release.
      (5)   Adequate flow line spot elevations, sections and profiles including
pipe length and slope shall be labeled to define basin and pipe geometry.
      (6)   Structural pretreatment or pretreatment chambers are required
immediately upstream of an underground detention facility to collect debris and
grime prior to allowing it to enter the detention chamber.
   (H)   Detention in floodways. The placement of detention basins within the
floodway is prohibited.
      (1)   Detention in flood fringe areas. The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for 1.5 times the
volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention basin including
any berms. The release from the detention storage provided shall still be
controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The applicant
shall demonstrate its operation for all stream-flow and floodplain backwater
conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain storage
lost below the existing ten-year flood elevation shall be replaced below the
existing ten-year elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the existing
ten-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the existing ten-year flood
elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to drain
freely and openly to the watercourse.
      (2)   On-stream detention. On-stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year 24-hour events from the property. If on-stream detention is used in
watersheds larger than one square mile, the applicant will use hydrographic
modeling to demonstrate that the design will not increase the water level for
any properties upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the
stream as part of on-stream detention:
         (a)   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species,
which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle, such as for
spawning;
         (b)   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water
quality or stream aquatic habitat;
         (c)   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures and a pre-sedimentation basin;
         (d)   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands;
         (e)   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge; and
         (f)   Shall not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land.
   (I)   Detention in wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds or depressional
storage areas.
      (1)   Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage
areas shall not be modified for the purposes of stormwater detention unless it
is demonstrated that the proposed modifications will maintain or improve its
habitat and ability to perform beneficial functions and shall comply with §
156.006.
      (2)   Existing storage and release rate characteristics of wetlands,
rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas shall be maintained and the
volume of detention storage provided to meet the requirements of this chapter
shall be in addition to this existing storage.
      (3)   Alteration of drainage patterns. Site drainage patterns shall not
be altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas.
      (4)   Detention/sedimentation. All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the two-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least 24 hours, before being
discharged to the wetland, river, lake, pond or depressional storage area. This
basin shall be constructed before property grading begins and shall be
maintained throughout the construction process.
   (J)   Street detention, parking lot detention.
      (1)   Street detention. Streets are not to be used as part of the
detention system.
      (2)   Parking lot detention. The maximum stormwater ponding depth in any
parking area shall not exceed six inches for more than four hours.
   (K)   Buffer Areas. Buffer areas shall be required for all areas defined as
Waters of the United States (WOTUS). The buffer areas for all WOTUS shall
extend landward from the ordinary high water mark The buffer area for
jurisdictional or mitigated wetlands shall extend from the edge of the
delineated wetland. A property may contain a buffer area that originates from
WOTUS on another property. Buffer area are divided into two types: linear
buffers and water body buffers.
      (1)   Linear buffers. A 30-foot-wide minimum buffer shall be designated
along both sides of all channels meeting the definition of WOTUS.
      (2)   Water body buffers. Water body buffers shall encompass all non-
linear bodies of water meeting the definition of WOTUS including wetlands,
lakes, and ponds.
         (a)   For all water bodies with a total surface area less than 2.5
acres, a minimum buffer width of 30 feet shall be established.
         (b)   For all water bodies with a total surface area greater than 2.5
acres, a minimum buffer width of 40 feet shall be established.
      (3)   Easements. Buffer areas shall be located within special easements
or covenants for use by the managing district, local unit of government,
homeowners association, or other entities responsible for the adjacent
stormwater facilities, ponds, lakes, or channels.
      (4)   Development within a buffer area. All buffer areas shall be
maintained free from development including disturbance of soil, dumping or
filling, erection of structures, and placement of impervious surfaces except as
follows:
         (a)   Passive recreation (e.g., birdwatching, picnicking).
         (b)   Trails running parallel to the buffer. Trails should be no wider
than ten feet and the runoff from such facilities is diverted away from the
WOTUS or managed before flowing to the WOTUS.
         (c)   Minor structures relating to parks and recreation uses less than
300 square feet.
         (d)   Utility structures including drainage facilities, except private
sewer collection systems such as septic systems shall not be constructed within
the buffer areas.
         (e)   Boat docks, ramps, piers, and beaches.
         (f)   Unimproved access through buffer areas for maintenance purposes.
   (L)   Infiltration practices.
      (1)   Generally. To effectively reduce runoff volumes, infiltration
practices including basins, trenches, and porous pavement shall be located in
hydrologic soil groups “A” and “B” as designated by the USDA Natural Resources
Conservation Service. Infiltration basins and trenches designed to recharge
groundwater shall not be located within 75 feet of a water supply well or
building foundation. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove
coarse sediment from stormwater flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Stormwater shall not be allowed to stand more than 72 hours over 80%
of the dry basin’s bottom area for the maximum design event to be exfiltrated.
The bottom of infiltration basins or trenches shall be a minimum of four feet
above the seasonally high groundwater and bedrock level. Engineering
calculations demonstrating infiltration rates shall be included with the
application.
      (2)   Vegetated filter strips and swales. To effectively filter
stormwater pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff, sites should be
designed to maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Whenever
practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter
strips and swales comprised of native grasses and forbs before being routed to
a storm sewer or detention basin. Vegetated filter strips and swales should be
designed such that the time of concentration within the area is at least ten
minutes.
   (M)   Safety considerations. The drainage system components, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events.
      (1)   Side slopes. The side slopes of all detention basins at the 100-
year, 24-hour pool shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls
into the basin and for stability and ease of maintenance.
      (2)   Safety ledge. All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least four feet in width, two to three feet below the normal water
depth, or it must be protected by an enclosed fence at least 48 inches in
height
      (3)   Velocity. Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall
be controlled to safe levels (less than 10 fps) taking into consideration rates
and depths of flow.
   (N)   Accommodating flows from upstream tributary areas. Stormwater runoff
from areas tributary to the property shall be considered in the design of the
property's drainage system. Flows from upstream areas that are not to be
detained should be routed around the basin being provided for the site being
developed, unless approved by the City Engineer.
      (1)   Upstream areas not meeting ordinance requirements. When there are
areas not meeting the storage and release rates of this chapter tributary to
the applicant's property or there are known downstream flooding issues,
regionalized detention on the applicant's property shall be explored by the
applicant or the city. When it is deemed beneficial by the city or the
applicant to explore such a design, the following steps shall be followed:
         (a)   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his or
her property;
         (b)   Areas tributary to the applicant's property, not meeting the
storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, shall be identified; and
         (c)   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant's property
area, total storage needed for the combined properties shall be computed.
      (2)   Allowable release rates and storage shall be computed using the
combined property areas. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable
fully developed land cover, based on local zoning, shall be used for the
purposes of computing storage.
      (3)   Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the city may
choose to pay for over-sizing the applicant's detention basin to accommodate
the regional flows. If regional storage is selected by the city, then the
applicant's responsibility will be limited to the storage for his or her
property as computed above. If regional storage is rejected by the city, the
applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the applicant's basin
whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream flows through his or
her basin and the upstream areas exceed one square mile in size, the applicant
must meet the provisions of division (H)(2) above for on-stream basins.
      (4)   Upstream areas meeting ordinance requirements. When there are areas
which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, tributary
to the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant's detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative.
However, if the city decides to route tributary area flows through an
applicant's basin, the final design stormwater releases shall be based on the
combined total of the applicant's property plus tributary areas.
   (O)   Early completion of detention facilities. Where detention, retention
or depressional storage areas are to be used as part of the drainage system for
a property, they shall be constructed as the first element of the initial
earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in these facilities shall be
removed by the applicant on a regular basis and before project completion in
order to maintain the design volume of the facilities.
   (P)   Maintenance considerations. The stormwater drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows which can be used to completely drain
the pool for sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by gravity
is not feasible. Pre-sedimentation basins shall be included, where feasible,
for localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy equipment
shall be provided.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.030 OTHER DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage into wetlands, rivers, streams, lakes, ponds and depressional
storage areas. Wetlands, lakes, ponds and depressional storage areas shall be
protected from damaging modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and
quantity associated with land developments.
   (B)   Loessal soils. Care must be taken to avoid open flow discharges of
stormwater over silt (loessal) soils due to high potential for erosion.
   (C)   Sinkholes, karst area. The following requirements apply for new
developments or redevelopments where sinkholes are determined to be present:
      (1)   A stormwater detention basin shall not be placed in or over a
sinkhole or located closer than 100 feet from the rim of a sinkhole;
      (2)   The outflow from a stormwater detention basin, channel, ditch or
any stormwater runoff generated as a result of a new development or
redevelopment shall not empty into or be directed, redirected by any means into
or through any sinkhole;
      (3)   If, after the review of the stormwater drainage plan, the code
enforcement officer and/or City Engineer may determine that more detailed
information is required, a sinkhole evaluation may be required. A sinkhole
evaluation, which addresses the geologic, engineering and environmental factors
resulting from a new development or redevelopment, shall be performed by a
professional with experience and expertise in karst topography who shall
certify the results of the evaluation. This evaluation shall be the
responsibility of the applicant and performed at no cost to the city. After a
review of this evaluation and with the consultation of the County Soil and
Water Conservation District, the Administrator may either approve or disapprove
the drainage plan as submitted;
      (4)   Whenever a new sinkhole appears or it becomes apparent that the
sinkhole has not yet been identified, it shall be reported to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District.
   (D)   Special management areas. The city may require additional stormwater
control measures for stormwater discharges to special management areas
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Water bodies listed as “impaired” on Illinois' Clean Water Act 303
(d).305(b) Integrated List.
      (2)   Any water body or watershed with an approved total maximum daily
load (TMDL).
      (3)   Critical areas with sensitive resources (e.g., karst areas,
groundwater recharge areas highly vulnerable to contamination, drainage areas
to water supply reservoirs, source water protection zones, etc.)
   (E)   Sump pump drainage. It is illegal to discharge groundwater from sump
pump to sanitary sewer, across property lines, across sidewalks, and to city
streets. Direct discharge into the city storm sewer is the best location, so as
part of the storm sewer system, sump pump collection systems are required in
all new developments. Sump pump collection systems shall consist of:
      (1)   The pipe system for sump pump drainage shall consist of six-inch
diameter SDR 35 PVC pipe at a minimum depth of 36 inches.
      (2)   A cleanout shall be located every 400 feet or less, at every change
in direction, and at every junction of two or more pipe mains.
      (3)   The sump pump collection piping system shall be located in the
front yards. It will be connected to the stormwater drainage conveyance system
within the subdivision at appropriate intervals not exceeding 500 feet. The
pipe slope shall be a minimum of 0.25%.
      (4)   All service lines to the main shall be privately owned and
maintained and shall be a one and a half inch diameter Schedule 40 PVC pipe.
Homeowners are responsible for burying their sump pump line from the house to
the collection system. The discharge pipe must have a check valve within one
foot of the floor grade and at a union or other approved coupling for easy
disconnection for repair and replacement.
      (5)   The sump pump collection system main shall be located in a utility
easement dedicated to the city.
      (6)   All connections to the sump pump drainage system main shall be a
tee fitting cut into the main and inspected by the code enforcement official.
      (7)   The sump pump drainage pipe is intended for sump pump drainage
only. Surface drainage shall not be allowed into the pipe.
      (8)   All newly constructed buildings are required to connect to the sump
pump drainage system. The owner/developer shall install THWN soft drawn solid
No. 12 copper tracer wire that is taped on the side of the pipe at ten-foot
intervals (minimum) and provide double length loop inside half-inch CPVC
conduit extending eight inches above the ground surface at cleanouts.
      (9)   In the rare case where a collection pipe is not feasible, the City
Engineer may approve sump pump discharge at grade within five feet of the
building if the discharge is contained within the property and will not cross
property lines.
   (F)   Roof drains. Roof drains may discharge at grade within five feet of
the property line with a “pop-up” drain emitter. The city may allow roof drain
connections in manholes by permit only.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
§ 156.045 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control soil erosion on land that is
disturbed or undergoing changes to existing grades by adding, removing, or
relocating dirt on site for non-agricultural purposes and to preserve the
natural terrain and waterways of land within the incorporated portions of the
city. Soil erosion scars the land and creates sediment that clogs storm sewers
and road ditches, chokes streams and creates silt lakes, all of which pose a
threat to public health and safety. The provisions of this chapter are intended
to provide a natural community environment, to sustain aesthetic, recreational,
fish, and wildlife habitat and values, to prevent soil erosion and to reduce
costly repairs to gullies, washed out fills, water conveyance systems, roads
and embankments. Application of the regulations in this chapter will
effectively control soil erosion and sedimentation.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.046 SCOPE.
   All soil erosion and sediment control-related measures are required to be
constructed and maintained for any land disturbance activity permitted under §
156.002. In addition, any person, firm, corporation or business that is
performing an activity which has the potential to create erosion shall first
apply to the designated code enforcement official for approval of required
erosion control plans and issuance of a grading permit as specified in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.047 APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   The following requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Illinois Environmental Protection Act - ILCS Ch. 415, Act 5, § 12,
from Ch. 111-1/2, pars. 1011 and 1012;
   (B)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations - Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 302 Water Quality Standards; and
   (C)   Illinois Pollution Control Board Rules and Regulations - Title 35:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution
Control Board, Part 304 Effluent Standards.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.048 GENERAL PRINCIPLES.
   It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and
sedimentation caused by development activities, including clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating and filling of land, in the city. Measures taken to
control soil erosion and off-site sediment runoff shall be adequate to assure
that sediment is not transported from the site by a storm event of two-year,
24-hour event frequency or less. The following principles shall apply to all
new development or redevelopment activities within the city and to the
preparation of the submissions required under division §
156.049.
   (A)   Soil disturbance shall be conducted in such a manner as to minimize
erosion. Areas of the development site that are not to be graded shall be
protected from construction traffic or other disturbance until final seeding is
performed. Soil stabilization measures shall consider the time of year, site
conditions, and the use of temporary or permanent measures.
   (B)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever possible.
Area immediately adjacent to natural watercourses should be left undisturbed
wherever possible.
   (C)   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, sinkhole or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity of
these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   (D)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   (E)   Sediment basins or traps, silt fences, filter barriers, diversions and
any other appropriate sediment or runoff control measures shall be installed
prior to site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from
runoff waters from land undergoing development.
   (F)   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetic
and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
   (G)   Provision shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainage ways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on-site or
downstream.
   (H)   Permanent vegetation and structures should be installed as soon as
practical during development.
   (I)   If a site is to be void of vegetation during the construction process
for long periods of time, a temporary seeding and/or mulch shall be applied.
The mulch shall be adequate to protect the site from sheet erosion until the
temporary seeding is established.
   (J)   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   (K)   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall be
properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   (L)   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   (M)   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until they are no longer needed.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.049 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design and operation standards and requirements.
      (1)   Each applicant shall submit the information as regulated to ensure
that the provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include
sufficient information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the
property, the potential adverse impacts of the development related to erosion
both on-site and off-site, and the effectiveness of the proposed erosion and
sediment control plan in reducing sediment loss.
      (2)   Submissions shall be prepared in accordance with the standards and
requirements contained in the “Illinois Urban Manual,” most current update,
prepared by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources Conservation
Services (formerly Soil Conservation Service) for the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency and recognized by the Madison County Soil and Water
Conservation District, which standards and requirements are hereby incorporated
into this chapter by reference.
      (3)   Properties and channels adjoining development sites shall be
protected from erosion and sedimentation. At points where concentrated flow
leaves a development site, energy dissipation devices shall be placed at
discharge locations and along the length of any outfall channel as necessary to
provide a non-erosive velocity of flow from the structure to the watercourse so
that the natural physical and biological characteristics and functions are
maintained and protected.
      (4)   Disturbed areas shall be stabilized with temporary or permanent
measures within 14 calendar days following the end of active hydrologic
disturbance, or re-disturbance, consistent with the following criteria or using
an appropriate measure as approved by the code enforcement official.
         (a)   Appropriate temporary or permanent stabilization measures shall
include seeding, mulching, sodding, and/ or non-vegetative measures.
         (b)   Areas of embankments having slopes greater than or equal to
three horizontal to one vertical shall be stabilized with staked-in-place sod,
mat, or blanket in combination with seeding.
         (c)   Erosion control blankets shall be required on all interior
detention basin side slopes between the normal water level and the high-water
level.
         (d)   The 14-day stabilization requirement may be precluded by snow
cover or where construction activity will resume within 21 days from when the
active hydrologic disturbance ceased, then stabilization measures do not have
to be initiated on that portion of the site by the fourteenth day after
construction activity temporarily ceased, given that portion of the site has
appropriate soil erosion and sediment controls.
      (5)   Land disturbance activities in streams shall be avoided, where
possible. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the following requirements
shall be met:
         (a)   Where stream construction crossings are necessary, temporary
crossings shall be constructed of non-erosive material.
         (b)   The time and area of disturbance of a stream shall be kept to a
minimum. The stream, including bed and banks, shall be restabilized within 48
hours after channel disturbance is completed or interrupted.
      (6)   Soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be appropriate
with regard to the amount of tributary area as follows:
         (a)   Disturbed areas draining greater than 5,000 square feet but less
than one acre shall, at a minimum, be protected by a filter barrier (including
filter fences) which at a minimum, meet the applicable specification sections
in the IDOT “Illinois Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction”
and “Illinois Urban Manual” to control all off-site runoff. Vegetated filter
strips, with a minimum width of 25 feet, in the direction of flow, may be used
as an alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is expected.
         (b)   Disturbed areas draining more than one but fewer than five acres
shall, at a minimum, be protected by a sediment trap and a filter barrier or
equivalent control measure at a point downslope of the disturbed area.
         (c)   Disturbed areas draining more than five acres shall, at a
minimum, be protected by filter barrier and a sediment basin with a perforated
filtered riser pipe or equivalent control measures at a point downslope of the
disturbed area.
         (d)   Sediment basins shall have both a permanent pool (dead storage)
and additional volume (live storage) with each volume equal to the runoff
amount of a two-year, 24-hour event over the on-site hydrologically disturbed
tributary drainage area to the sediment basin. The available sediment volume
below normal water level, in addition to the dead storage volume shall be sized
to store the estimated sediment load generated from the site over the duration
of the construction period. For construction periods exceeding one year, the
one-year sediment load and a sediment removal schedule may be submitted. A
detention basin may serve as the sediment basin if a filtered perforated riser
pipe protects the outflow pipe.
         (e)   The maximum drainage area for overland flow to a silt fence
shall not exceed half-acre per 100-feet of fence. In addition, the maximum
allowable slope distances contributing runoff to a silt fence are as follows:
 
Slope (%)       Max Spacing Along Slope (ft)
25              50
20              75
15              125
10              175
Flatter than 10 200
 
      (7)   All storm sewers that are or will be functioning during
construction shall be protected by an inlet protection control measure and
cleaned once the site has been stabilized.
      (8)   If dewatering services are used, adjoining properties and discharge
locations shall be protected by erosion. Discharges shall be routed through an
effective sediment control measure (e.g., sediment trap, basin, erosion fence,
or other appropriate measures).
      (9)   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control measures shall be
removed within 30 days after final site stabilization is achieved or after the
temporary measures are no longer needed. Trapped sediment and other disturbed
soil areas shall be permanently stabilized. Typically, a site is stabilized
when permanent vegetation is established over at least 75% of the area or when
otherwise approved by the city.
      (10)   A stabilized mat of aggregate under laid with filter cloth shall
be located at any point where traffic will be entering or leaving a
construction site of a major development to or from a public right-of-way,
street, alley, or parking area. Any sediment or soil reaching an improved
public right-ow-way, street, alley, or parking area shall be removed by
scraping or street cleaning as accumulations warrant and transported to a
controlled sediment disposal area. The code enforcement official may require
additional stabilized construction entrance methods.
      (11)   Earthen embankments shall be constructed with side slopes no
steeper than three horizontal to one vertical. Steeper slopes may be
constructed with appropriate stabilization as recommended by a geotechnical
engineer and approved by the City Engineer.
      (12)   Stormwater conveyance channels, including ditches, swales, and
diversions, and the outlet of all channels and pipes shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected flow velocity from the two-year frequency
storm without erosion. All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized
within 48 hours.
      (13)   Temporary diversions shall be constructed, as necessary, to direct
all runoff from hydrologically disturbed areas to the appropriate sediment trap
or basin.
      (14)   Soil stockpiles shall not be located in a flood-prone area or a
designated buffer protecting Waters of the United States. Soil stockpiles are
defined as having greater than 100 cubic yards of soil and will remain in place
for more than seven days. Soil stockpiles locations shall be shown on the soil
erosion and sediment control plan and shall have the appropriate measures to
prevent erosion of the stockpile.
      (15)   A concrete wash-out pit shall be located on-site to control
concrete waste from trucks for projects that include concrete work.
      (16)   Handbooks. Standards and specifications contained in the “Illinois
Urban Manual,” as amended, and the planning procedures sections of the
“Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control,” as amended, are referenced in this ordinance as guidance for
presenting soil erosion and sediment control plan specifications and
delineating procedures and methods of operation under site development for soil
erosion and sediment control. In the event of conflict between provisions of
said manuals and this ordinance, this chapter shall govern.
      (17)   The applicant shall provide adequate receptacles for the
deposition of all construction material debris generated during the development
process. The applicant shall not cause or permit the dumping, depositing,
dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of construction material debris upon
or into any development site, channel, or waters of the United States. The
applicant shall maintain the development site free of construction material
debris.
   (B)   Plan submittal requirements. An “Erosion and Sediment Control Plan”
shall be submitted for both existing and proposed property conditions; new
developments or redevelopments meeting the requirements of §
156.002. The plan shall show/contain the following information:
      (1)   All erosion and sedimentation control measures necessary to meet
the objectives of this chapter throughout all phases of construction and
permanently after completion of development of the site.
      (2)   Outfalls, drainage tributary areas, and two-year, 24-hour storm
frequency volumes required to evaluate whether the requirements in division (A)
(6) are being met.
      (3)   Location of the slope disturbance lines.
      (4)   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of
clearing, installation of temporary sediment control measures, installation of
storm drainage, paving streets and parking areas, and establishment of
permanent vegetative cover. All design and related work, where required by law,
shall be prepared under the direct supervision of an Illinois Licensed
Professional Engineer.
      (5)   Seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of seed-bed
preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and fertilizer
application, and kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and permanent
vegetative control measures.
      (6)   Construction details for all erosion and sedimentation control
measures used on the project (e.g., ditch checks, inlet protection, sediment
basins, stone riprap, construction entrances, erosion control blanket, concrete
wash-out pits, etc.). Appropriate construction details are included herein in
Appendix A, and may be supplemented by the IDOT “Highway Standards” for
Temporary Erosion Control Systems or the “Illinois Urban Manual” practice
standards.
      (7)   Provisions for maintenance of control facilities, including
easements and estimates of the cost of maintenance.
      (8)   Identification of the person(s) or entity which will have legal
responsibility for maintenance of erosion control structures and measures after
development is completed.
      (9)   The applicant shall certify and sign on the drawing that all
clearing, grading, drainage and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the erosion and sediment control plan.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.050 MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES.
   All temporary measures and permanent erosion and sediment control must be
maintained in an effective working condition as identified by required
inspections. This includes the following:
   (A)   Repair, replace, or maintain erosion and sediment control structures
after a singular or cumulative rainfall event(s) of 0.5 inches or more over a
24-hour period.
   (B)   Make adjustments to the sedimentation and erosion control plan and
methods, as needed, to accomplish the intended purpose.
   (C)   If a repair is necessary, it shall be initiated within three working
days of the inspection. If the issues are not corrected, the city may prepare
an incidence of non-compliance (NOI) document and send it to the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. The contractor will be responsible for any
fines issued or penalties imposed.
   (D)   Built up sediment shall be removed from silt fences when it has
reached one-third the design height of the fence.
   (E)   Washout areas shall be inspected for depth of sediment, and built up
sediment shall be removed when it reaches 50% of the design depth of the basin.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.051 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL INSPECTIONS AND NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Erosion and sediment control inspections. Plans for upgrading,
stripping, excavating, and filling work as approved by the code enforcement
official shall be maintained at the site during the progress of the work. The
permittee shall inspect and maintain on-site records of such inspections at the
intervals specified as follows:
      (1)   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control
measures (including perimeter controls and diversions), prior to proceeding
with any other earth disturbance or grading;
      (2)   After rough grading;
      (3)   After final grading; and
      (4)   Weekly and after each rainfall event of half-inches or more over a
24-hour period. Rainfall events will be measured using a local gauge or the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) website as a reference.
      (5)   If inspections are not being performed, the city may prepare an
incidence of non-compliance (NOI) document and send it to the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. The contractor will be responsible for any
fines issued or penalties imposed. Any necessary repairs to soil erosion and
sediment control measures shall be made and reported in the on-site inspection
records. Copies of the inspection records shall be submitted to the code
enforcement officer in a monthly inspection report.
   (B)   Notifications. 
      (1)   To facilitate inspections by the code enforcement official and to
ensure compliance with the approved erosion and sediment control plan, the
grading or building permit, and this chapter, the permittee shall notify the
code enforcement official within two working days in writing of the completion
of the construction stages specified in the following:
         (a)   Upon completion of installation of sediment and runoff control,
prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading;
         (b)   After stripping and clearing;
         (c)   After rough grading;
         (d)   After final grading and seeding; and
         (e)   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
      (2)   If work is to be done in phases, the permittee shall give notice at
the completion of each work stage within each phase.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.052 SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS.
   If at any stage of the grading of any development site, the code enforcement
official determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the code
enforcement official may require as a condition of allowing the work to be done
that such reasonable special precautions be taken as is considered advisable to
avoid the likelihood of such peril.
   (A)   “Special Precautions” may include, but shall not be limited to, a more
level exposed slope, construction of additional drainage facilities, berms,
terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of plant materials for erosion
control, and recommendations of a soil scientist or geotechnical engineer,
which may outline requirements for further work.
   (B)   Where it appears that storm damage may occur due to incomplete grading
at the site, work may be stopped and the permittee required to install
temporary structures or take such other measures as may be required to protect
adjoining property or the public safety.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.053 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons
or property otherwise imposed by law, and the city or its officers or agents
will not be made liable for such damage, by:
   (A)   The issuance of a permit under this chapter;
   (B)   Failure of the city officials to observe or recognize hazardous
conditions;
   (C)   Failure of the city officials to recommend denial of or to deny a
permit; or
   (D)   Exemptions from the permit requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
LONG TERM MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY
§ 156.065 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   Maintenance of stormwater drainage facilities and erosion and sediment
control facilities located on private property shall be the responsibility of
the owner of that property. Before a site development permit is obtained from
the city, the applicant shall execute a “Stormwater Maintenance Agreement” with
the city guaranteeing that the applicant and all future owners of the property
will maintain its stormwater drainage system. The “Stormwater Drainage
Maintenance Agreement” shall be in the form as provided for by the city. Such
agreement shall be recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Madison County.
   (A)   The maintenance agreement shall also specifically authorize
representatives of the city to enter onto the property to inspect the drainage
and erosion control system(s). The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate
that if the Director of Public Works notifies the property owner in writing of
maintenance problems which require correction, the property owner shall make
such corrections within 30 calendar days of such notification.
   (B)   If corrections are not made within this time period, the city may have
the necessary work completed and assess the cost to the property owner.
   (C)   The city has the option of requiring a bond to be filed by the
property owner for maintenance of the stormwater drainage and erosion control
system(s). If the City Engineer based on study determines a bond is desirable,
he shall recommend a bond amount for consideration by the City Council. The
City Council shall decide whether or not the bond and amount will be charged,
and if the decision is affirmative, include by resolution this bond with the
other assurances in the manner and form required by the Subdivision Code.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
INSPECTIONS
§ 156.080 INSPECTIONS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designated representative shall
make inspections as hereinafter required and shall either approve that portion
of the work completed or shall notify the permittee wherein the work fails to
comply with the stormwater drainage or erosion and sedimentation control plan
as approved. Plans for grading, stripping, excavating and filling work bearing
the stamp of approval of the City Engineer shall be maintained at the site
during progress of the work.
   (A)   In order to obtain inspections and to ensure compliance with this
chapter, the permittee shall notify the code enforcement officer within two
working days of the completion of the construction stages specified below:
      (1)   Upon completion of installation of the stormwater drainage and
erosion and sediment control measures (including perimeter controls and
diversions), prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading;
      (2)   After stripping and clearing;
      (3)   After rough grading;
      (4)   After final grading;
      (5)   After seeding and landscaping deadlines; and
      (6)   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of
sediment controls.
   (B)   If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in
phases or areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the
completion of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an
inspection is not made and notification of the results given within five
working days after notice is received by the city from the permittee, the
permittee may continue work at his or her own risk without presuming acceptance
by the city. Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in
writing at the site.
   (C)   Biweekly inspections. Biweekly inspection reports shall be submitted
to the city as site development work progresses. Except for permits involving
the development of one single-family dwelling, the biweekly reports must be
certified by a registered professional engineer describing the current status
of construction for proposed drainage and detention system including whether
drainage construction and erosion control has been installed in accordance with
construction plans. Reports shall define whether maintenance has been provided
as needed for the erosion control.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.081 SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS.
   If at any stage of the grading of any development site, the code enforcement
officer determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland or drainage structure, the code
enforcement officer may require as a condition of allowing the work to be done
that reasonable special precautions be taken as is considered advisable to
avoid the likelihood of such peril. SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS may include but shall
not be limited to a more level exposed slope, construction of additional
drainage facilities, berms, terracing, compaction or cribbing, installation of
plant materials for erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils
engineer and/or engineering geologist which may be made requirements for
further work. Where it appears that storm damage may result because the grading
on any development site is not complete, work may be stopped and the permittee
required to install temporary structures or take any other measures as may be
required to protect adjoining property or the public safety. On large
developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the Code Enforcement
Officer may specify the time of starting grading and time of completion or may
require that the operations be conducted in specific stages so as to ensure
completion of protective measures or devices prior to the advent of seasonal
rains.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.082 AMENDMENT OF PLANS.
   Major amendments to stormwater drainage and detention or erosion and
sediment control plans shall be submitted to the code enforcement officer and
shall be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the
original plans. Field modification of a minor nature may be authorized by the
code enforcement officer by written authorization to the applicant.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
PERMITTING
§ 156.095 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   A completed “Engineer's Hydraulic/Hydrologic Drainage Summary and
Certification,” shall be submitted by the owner of the property or his or her
authorized agent to the code enforcement officer and shall bear the name(s) and
address(es) of the owner or developer of the site, the contractor(s) and any
consulting firm retained by the applicant, together with the name of the
applicant's principal contact at the firm. For any development subject to the
requirements of §
156.002 each application shall include certification that any land clearing,
construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the plans approved.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.096 BOND REQUIRED.
   The applicant for a development plan may be required to file with the city a
faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit or other improvement
security satisfactory to the city in an amount deemed sufficient by the code
enforcement officer and/or City Engineer to cover all costs of improvements,
landscaping, maintenance of improvements and landscaping, and soil erosion and
sediment control measures for a period specified by the city, and engineering
and inspection costs to cover the cost of failure or repair of improvements
installed on the site.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.097 REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   Each application for a development plan shall be reviewed and acted upon
according to the following procedures:
   (A)   The code enforcement officer and/or City Engineer will review each
application to determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
The code enforcement officer may also refer any application to the County Soil
and Water Conservation District, a consulting engineer retained by the city
and/or any other public agency within whose jurisdiction the site is located
for review and comment. Within 30 days after receiving an application, the code
enforcement officer and/or City Engineer shall, in writing:
      (1)   Approve the application if it is found to be in conformance with
the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Approve the application subject to any reasonable conditions as may
be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this chapter; or
      (3)   Disapprove the application, indicating the deficiencies and the
procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   (B)   No development plan shall be approved for an intended development site
unless:
      (1)   (a)   The development, including but not limited to subdivision or
planned unit development, has been approved by the city where applicable; or
         (b)   The proposed earth moving is coordinated with any overall
development program previously approved by the city for the area in which the
site is situated; and
      (2)   All relevant Federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance as noted in §
156.006.
   (C)   Failure of the code enforcement officer to act on an original or
revised application within 30 days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed and in compliance with the
regulations contained herein unless the time is extended by agreement between
the code enforcement officer and the applicant. Pending preparation and
approval of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed
in accordance with conditions established by the code enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.098 FINAL CERTIFICATION.
   Prior to final approval by the city, a registered professional engineer
shall certify that detention basin has been constructed in accordance with
construction plans and proposed volume has been provided. An “as-built” survey
of the detention basin prepared by a state licensed surveyor shall be included
with the certification for approval.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 156.099 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL.
   Every development plan shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by the plan has not been commenced within 180 days or if not
completed by a date which shall be specified in the plan; except that the code
enforcement officer may, if the applicant presents satisfactory evidence that
unusual difficulties have prevented work being commenced or completed within
the specified time limits, grant a reasonable extension of time if written
application is made before the expiration date of the plan. The code
enforcement officer may require modification of the erosion control plan to
prevent any increase in erosion or off-site sediment runoff resulting from any
extension.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.110 STOP WORK ORDER; REVOCATION OF PLAN APPROVAL.
   (A)   In the event any person having obtained an approved development plan
pursuant to this chapter violates the terms of the plan, or carries on-site
development in such a manner as to materially adversely affect the health,
welfare, environment or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the development site or so as to be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood, the code enforcement officer may suspend or revoke the
development plan.
      (1)   Suspension of approval shall be by a written stop work order issued
by the code enforcement officer and delivered to the applicant or his or her
agent or the person performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective
immediately, shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the
conditions under which work may be resumed. A stop work order shall remain in
effect until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission at
which time the conditions of §
153.064 can be met.
      (2)   No development plan shall be revoked until a hearing is held by the
Planning Commission. Written notice of the hearing shall be served on the
applicant, either personally or by registered mail, and shall state:
         (a)   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or
revocation, in clear and concise language; and
         (b)   The time when and place where the hearing will be held.
   (B)   Serving of notice. The notice shall be served on the applicant at
least five days prior to the date set for the hearing. At the hearing, the
applicant shall be given an opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council. At its
next regularly scheduled meeting, the City Council shall decide by resolution
whether the development plan shall be revoked.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-6-2017)
APPENDIX A (Chapter 156): STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS
Section
   
1   Typical Soil Erosion and Sediment Control Details
   
2   Typical Storm Sewer Construction Details
§ 1 TYPICAL SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2492.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2494.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2496.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2498.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2500.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2502.jpg]
 
§ 2 TYPICAL STORM SEWER CONSTRUCTION DETAILS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2504.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cee122cd2f0a79d007542af19617180e4b1bb924/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2506.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 157: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Base flood elevation
   
157.04   Duties of the Building and Zoning Administrator
   
157.05   Floodplain development permit
   
157.06   Review of permit application
   
157.07   Reviews of subdivision proposals
   
157.08   Water supply systems
   
157.09   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
157.10   Annexations and extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
157.11   Variances
   
157.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.13   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
the Illinois Municipal Code (ILCS Ch. 65 Act 5, § 1-2-1, ILCS Act 65, Act 5, §
11-12-12, ILCS Act 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, 11-30-8 and ILCS
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   (D)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (E)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (F)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
157.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes and
prefabricated buildings. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building
or any addition to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Demolition of a building, redevelopment of a site, or clearing
of land as an adjunct of construction;
         (f)   Construction or erection of fences, levees, dams, walls, or
channel modifications;
         (g)   Filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, drilling,
mining, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (h)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks, and any other activity that might change the direction, height,
or velocity of flood or surface waters;
         (i)   Or any other activity of man that might change the direction,
height, or velocity of flood or surface waters, including extensive vegetation
removal.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include resurfacing roads, or gardening,
plowing, and similar practices that do not involve filling, grading, or
construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waters, or from the
unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the city, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that
may be annexed into the city that are subject to inundation by the base flood.
The floodplains of the city are generally identified as such on the countywide
flood insurance rate map of the county prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to buildings that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, buildings
and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A building, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Buildings for which the start of construction commenced or
after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such buildings.
   STRUCTURE. The results of a man-made change to the land constructed on or
below the ground, including a building or any addition to a building;
installing utilities, construction of roads or similar projects; construction
or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or culverts; drilling, mining,
filling, dredging, grading, excavating; and the storage of materials.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a building whereby the
cost of restoring the building to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the building before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a building, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the building before the start of construction of the
improvement or repair is started. SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building. The term does not, however,
include either: (1) any project for improvement of a building to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or (2) any alteration of
a building listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the Illinois
Register of Historic Places.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available
base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best
available data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed to
replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency for approval.
   (A)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of the Canteen Creek,
Wendell Branch, Mill Creek, Silver Creek, North Fork Mill Creek or other
floodplains of the city shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the countywide flood insurance study prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an "A Zone" on the countywide flood insurance rate map shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine
base flood elevations.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.04 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities under
the jurisdiction of the City of Troy meet the requirements of this chapter. The
Building and Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for receiving
applications and examining the plans and specifications for the application.
The Building and Zoning Administrator shall require any additional measures
which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.05 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development activity in the floodplain, as defined, without
first obtaining a floodplain development permit from the Building and Zoning
Administrator. The Building and Zoning Administrator shall only issue a
floodplain development permit for development activities, including new
construction and substantial improvements, which meet the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.06 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall review all permit applications
to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
manufactured homes) shall be:
   (A)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (C)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (D)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding; and
   (E)   Above flood elevation.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.07 REVIEWS OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall review subdivision proposals and
other proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be
reasonably safe from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new
development is in a flood prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to
assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazards.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.08 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall require within flood prone areas
that new and replacement water supply systems be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.09 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The Building and Zoning Administrator shall require within flood prone
areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.10 ANNEXATIONS AND EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The city may not approve any development located in a special flood hazard
area outside the corporate limits unless such development or plat is in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   A floodplain ordinance legally adopted by the City of Troy that meets
the minimum federal, state, and local requirements for development within a
special flood hazard area; and
   (B)   The special flood hazard areas of those parts of unincorporated
Madison County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of
Troy or that may be annexed into the City of Troy are generally identified as
such on the flood insurance rate map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.11 VARIANCES.
   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Hearing Officer for
a variance. The Zoning Hearing Officer shall review the applicant's request for
a variance and shall submit their written decision to the City Council. The
City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks,
roads, utilities, or other public facilities;
      (6)   The circumstances of the property are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The Zoning Hearing Officer shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards that would
lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.13 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur, or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the City of Troy or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not less than $25 nor more than $750. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 9-18-2023)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   BONDS
      
II.   HISTORIC LANDMARKS
      
III.   STREET NAMING/DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   SALES OF CITY ASSETS
      
VI.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
VIII.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IX.   REZONING
      
X.   SPECIAL USES
TABLE I: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of limited obligation (limited
2006-14  5-1-2006    tax) debt certificates for the purchase of property for
                     street improvements
                     Authorizing the issuance of limited obligation (limited
2006-21  7-17-2006   tax) debt certificates to fund the Escrow Fund for the
                     purchase of property for street improvements
                     Authorizing the issuance of a Business District tax note
2009-25  12-21-2009  pursuant to the Dorothy Drive Business District
                     redevelopment agreement
2013-04  6-3-2013    Authorizing the issuance of general obligation refunding
                     debt certificates, Series 2013
2016-15  5-16-2016   Authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds
                     (alternate revenue source)
                    
 
TABLE II: HISTORIC LANDMARKS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Designating the following as historic landmarks: 306 East
2002-13  5-20-2002   Market, 225 East Market, 216 East Market, 108 West Market,
                     317 East Center, 112 North Border, 105 West Clay and 114
                     South Main
                     Designating the following as historic landmarks: 101 East
2002-22  10-7-2002   Market, 103 East Market, 105 East Market, 107 East Market,
                     111 South Main, 116 South Main, 201 South Main, 318 South
                     Main
                     Designating the following as historic landmarks: 106 North
2003-08  5-19-2003   Main, 107 North Main, 108 South Main, 304 South Main, 110
                     East Market, 201 East Market
 
TABLE III: STREET NAMING/DEDICATIONS AND VACATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2001-09  4-16-2001   Vacating a portion of Byrn Street (the eastern 132 feet
                     intersection with Dewey Street)
                     Adding Formosa Road, from the edge of the pavement of the
2001-11  5-7-2001    eastbound through lane of U.S. Route 40 to the city
                     limits, to the municipal street system
2002-23  10-21-2002  Vacating a portion of Weston Street; reserving a permanent
                     utility easement
2003-15  7-7-2003    Vacating Plum Street, as shown on Exhibit A
2008-06  4-21-2008   Vacation a portion of North Washington Street, as shown on
                     Exhibit A
2010-05  2-1-2010    Renaming Troy Boulevard as “Sr A. Bradley R. Smith Drive”
2015-14  5-18-2015   Vacating a portion of Rose Street, as shown on Exhibit A
2021-19  8-16-2021   Vacating a 25-foot portion of a 50-foot roadway and
                     utility easement, as shown on Exhibit A
                     Vacating a 153.18-foot portion of an unimproved right-of-
2023-65  11-6-2023   way alley that exists between two tracts of land at 313
                     Montgomery Street
                    
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
02-02 1-22-  Authorizing execution of a storm sewer easement with the City of Collinsville
      2002
2005- 1-3-   Authorizing execution of agreement with the Darwin J. and Edna C. Meier
01    2005   Declarations of Trust for dedication and permanent easement for a detention pond
2005- 2-25-  Authorizing execution of intergovernmental agreement with County Mass Transit
09    2005   District for an easement for a bike trail
2010- 2-16-  Vacating an existing ten-foot wide utility easement, the south ten feet of Lots
08    2010   10, 11 and 12 of the “162 West Subdivision”
2010- 2-16-  Establishing a sanitary sewer easement on property owned by Troy Acquisitions,
09    2010   LLC, parts of Lots 10, 11 and 12 in the “162 West Subdivision”
Res.  3-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Evangelical
2022- 2022   Friedens Gemeinde
14
Res.  3-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with City on the
2022- 2022   Hill Ministries
15
Res.  3-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Sean and
2022- 2022   Elizabeth Owens
16
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a deed of easement and right-of-way for
2023- 2023   utilities, ingress and egress with the Jeanne L. Bohnenstiehl Living Trust
09
Res.  10-2-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Kerry M.
2023- 2023   Gaultney and Debbie Myers Gaultney
39
Res.  10-2-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Eric and
2023- 2023   Kathleen Harr
40
Res.  10-2-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Sheila
2023- 2023   Mikes
43
Res.  10-2-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with Chad
2023- 2023   Spealman
44
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a temporary construction easement and permanent
2024- 2024   easement agreement with Christopher J. and Elizabeth M. Jacobs
26
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a temporary construction easement agreement
2024- 2024   with Brian and Sue Lyn Ropac
27
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing the execution of a donation agreement with CPO Investments, LLC
2024- 2024   (Connor sanitary sewer easement)
29
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing the execution of a donation agreement with CPO Investments, LLC
2024- 2024   (Lindow Properties, LLC sanitary sewer easement)
30
Res.  9-3-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a vacation of easement and a drainage easement
2024- 2024   for Waterford Place Industrial Park
34
Res.  11-4-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a permanent easement agreement with TRIAD CUSD
2024- 2024   #2 for water main extension and multi-use pedestrian path
42
            
 
TABLE V: SALES OF CITY ASSETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2001-04  2-20-2001   Authorizing the sale of a city-owned dump truck
2002-01  1-22-2002   Authorizing the sale of a city-owned bucket truck
2004-34  11-15-2004  Authorizing the sale of a city-owned dump truck
2005-13  4-18-2005   Authorizing the sale of a city-owned truck
2008-11  6-16-2008   Declaring certain motor vehicles to be surplus,
                     authorizing their donation to Fire Department
2015-05  2-17-2015   Declaring certain motor vehicles to be surplus and
                     authorizing auction bid of same
2015-15  6-1-2015    Declaring certain motor vehicles to be surplus and
                     authorizing auction bid of same
2015-23  11-2-2015   Declaring certain vehicles to be surplus and authorizing
                     bid of the same
2016-01  1-19-2016   Declaring certain vehicles to be surplus and authorizing
                     bid of the same
                     Declaring a generator and certain other personal property
2018-04  3-19-2018   owned by the city as surplus and authorizing the sale of
                     the same
2020-25  11-2-2020   Declaring certain vehicles and/or equipment to be surplus
                     property and authorizing bid of the same
                    
 
TABLE VI: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2000- 10-2-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Natural
22    2000   Resources for sale of real estate, subject to right-of-way and easements
2002- 12-16- Authorizing the exchange of real property with J&M Properties, as
33    2002   described on Exhibit B
03-04 3-3-   Authorizing the execution of a jurisdictional transfer agreement for
      2003   Formosa Road (FAU Route 9394) with the state
03-24 11-17- Authorizing the execution of a real estate sale contract with the Bank of
      2003   Edwardsville as shown in Exhibit A
2003- 12-15- Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the Tri-Township Park
29    2003   District for sale of city real estate known as 302 and 303 Meadow Drive
2004- 4-5-   Authorizing the city to execute an agreement for the sale of real property
05    2004   between State of Illinois (Department of Transportation) and the city
2004- 4-5-   Authorizing the city to enter in to and the city to execute an agreement
06    2004   for the sale of real property between State of Illinois (Department of
             Transportation) (0.4974 acres)
2004- 7-6-   Amending Ord. 2004-06, sale of real property, Parcel No. 8016145, being
18    2004   0.4974 acre, to the state
2005- 9-6-   Authorizing the exchange and purchase of real property from J&M
21    2005   Properties, as described on Exhibits A and B
2005- 10-17- Accepting a bid for sale of real property located at 115 West Charter
32    2005   Street (rear)
2006- 2-6-   Authorizing sale of real property to the state, being 0.4379 acre in
03    2006   Section 9, Township 3 N, Range 7 W of the third PM as right-of-way for FAU
             Route 9363, Section 37BR
2006- 4-3-   Accepting bid for and authorizing the sale of real property located at 102
12    2006   South Kimberlin
2007- 4-2-   Authorizing real estate sale contracts with J&M Properties, LLC as shown
08    2007   in Exhibits A, B and C
2009- 5-18-  Authorizing settlement agreement with Troy Acquisitions, LLC and the
05    2009   estate of Louis Buesking, Jr.
2009- 5-18-  Authorizing additional settlement agreement and property exchange with the
06    2009   estate of Louis Buesking, Jr.
2009- 5-18-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with Jarvis Township for property
07    2009   exchange, as shown on Exhibit B
2015- 1-20-  Providing for the jurisdictional transfer of South Main Street to the
03    2015   Municipal Street System of the city
Res.  4-20-
2015- 2015   Acceptance of final plat - Chapel Hill
06
2015- 10-5-  Authorizing the city to execute a warranty deed in favor of Chicago Title
22    2015   Land Trust Company, under the Trust Agreement date December 31, 1998
Res.  7-20-
2015- 2015   Acceptance of preliminary plat - Birkhead Estates
14
Res.  8-3-
2015- 2015   Acceptance of final plat of Birkhead Estates (Lots 2-6)
15
Res.  8-17-
2015- 2015   Acceptance of final plat of second addition to Wendell Creek Estates
16
Res.  3-7-
2016- 2016   Approving final plat - Robert’s Place
06
Res.  3-7-
2016- 2016   Approving final plat - Waterford Place
07
Res.  6-6-
2016- 2016   Approving final plat - Jennifer Court
17
Res.  8-1-
2016- 2016   Acceptance of preliminary plat - Carrington Farms
19
2016- 8-15-  Acceptance of 203 Crossington Lane from the Illinois State Police
24    2016
2017- 3-6-   Authorizing the purchase of real property from Victoria Lynn Fischer for
05    2017   the sum of $40,000
2018- 6-4-   Authorizing the sale of real estate owned by the city, specifically, 203
12    2018   Crossington Lane (Parcel ID. No. 09–22-16-08-201-025)
2019- 7-29-  Authorizing the purchase of real estate by the by city, specifically, Lot
09    2019   6 of "The Greens of Troy" (Parcel ID. No. 09-2-22-08-00-000-028)
Res.  7-20-  Approval of final plat for a two lot single-family minor subdivision named
2020- 2020   Bambi Estates located on the west end of Bambi Drive
14
Res.  8-3-   Approval of final plat for a residential development named Hampton Glen
2020- 2020   Phase 4 (Lots 9, 29-33, 110-125 and 139-152) located on 16.83+/- acres to
17           the east of Bridgehampton Road and Sagaponak Lane
Res.  6-7-   Approval of preliminary plat for a development named Schmalz Road
2021- 2021   Subdivision (six residential lots and Outlot A) located on 80+/- acres on
07           the south side of Schmalz Road across from Lone Oak Subdivision
Res.  6-7-   Approval of consolidation plat for four lots located at 401 and 407
2021- 2021   Edwardsville Road
08
Res.  6-21-  Approval of final plat for a residential development named Schmalz Road
2021- 2021   Subdivision (Lots 1 to 6) located on 12.78+/- acres on the south side of
09           Schmalz Road
Res.  6-21-  Approval of preliminary plat for a development named Stonebriar Manors
2021- 2021   Phase 2 (Lots 33 to 80) located on 19+/- acres north of Stonebriar Manors
10           Phase 1
Res.  6-21-  Approval of preliminary plat for a development named Homes at Liberty
2021- 2021   Place Phases 3-6 (Lots 208 to 249) located in the northeast corner of 7320
11           Bouse Road
Res.  8-2-   Approval of revised final plat for a residential development named Schmalz
2021- 2021   Road Subdivision (Lots 1 to 6) located on 12.78+/- acres on the south side
17           of Schmalz Road
Res.  9-7-   Approval of final plat for a three-lot minor subdivision named Coleman’s
2021- 2021   Subdivision located on 9.63+/- acres on the south side of State Route 162
18
Res.  12-6-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a purchase agreement with Bruce Langdon
2021- 2021   to purchase certain real property located at 110 East Market Street
30
Res.  1-18-
2022- 2022   Approval of final plat for Hampton Glen, Phase 5 (Lots 10-28)
07
Res.  1-18-
2022- 2022   Approval of final plat for Hampton Glen, Phase 6 (Lots 126-138)
08
2022- 10-3-  Authorizing the jurisdictional transfer of a certain highway from Pin Oak
46    2022   Township to the city, from the east edge of pavement of Formosa Road, in
             its entirety, .80 miles
2022- 10-3-  Authorizing the jurisdictional transfer of a certain highway from Pin Oak
47    2022   Township to the city, being Whitworth Road from north edge of pavement of
             Bouse Road northerly to EOR, in its entirety, .26 miles
Res.         Approval of final plat for a residential planned development named
2022- 12-5-  Serenade - Phase 2 (Residential lots 12-31) located on approximately 10.44
46    2022   acres of land off of Dorothy Drive in the northeast quarter of Section 8,
             Township 3 North, Range 7 West of the third principal meridian
Res.  1-17-  Approval of preliminary plat for a development named Carrington Farms
2023- 2023   located on the west side of Formosa Road
01
Res.  1-17-
2023- 2023   Approval of final plat for Stonebriar Manor, Phase 2 (Lots 33-49)
03
Res.         Approval of preliminary plat for a development named Troy Town Centre
2023- 1-17-  First Addition located on 20+ acres north of Troy Town Center on
04    2023   Edwardsville Road in the southeast quarter of Section 5, Township 3 North,
             Range 7 West of the third principal meridian
Res.  2-21-
2023- 2023   Approval of final plat for Homes at Liberty Place, Phase 3 (Lots 209-249)
16
Res.  9-18-
2023- 2023   Approval of preliminary plat for West Wind Villas
35
Res.  9-18-  Adopting a preliminary development plan for a Planned Development -
2023- 2023   Residential (PD-R) known as Shadow Wood Phase 3
36
Res.  1-16-
2024- 2024   Approval of preliminary plat for Waterford Villas
05
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing execution of quit claim deed for the transfer of real property
2024- 2024   to Jarvis Township for construction of a public roadway
24
Res.  8-5-
2024- 2024   Approval of final plat for West Wind Villas
31
Res.  9-3-
2024- 2024   Approval of final plat for resubdivision of Outlots E of Troy Town Centre
33
            
 
TABLE VII: AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2000- 5-1-   Approving two-year extension of refuse and recyclable materials collection
08    2000   contract with Midland Waste (formerly Laidlaw Waste Systems, Inc.)
2000- 6-19-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with Tri-Township Park District
12    2000   regarding development of property as a park
2000- 7-17-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the Department of Natural
14    2000   Resources for Franklin and Watt Street drainage improvement
2000- 8-7-   Authorizing a communication facility lease agreement with Metricom, for 60
15    2000   months
2000- 8-7-   Authorizing right-of-way use lease agreement with Metricom
16    2000
2000- 11-6-  Authorizing contract agreement with Thouvenot, Wade & Moerchen for
27    2000   professional services for analysis of the TIF District watershed
2001- 9-17-  Authorizing new intergovernmental agreement with Tri-Township Park District,
18    2001   as shown in Exhibit A
02-08 1-4-   Authorizing a rental agreement between Delaurent Construction Co., Inc and
      2002   the city
2002- 3-18-  Authorizing right-of-way agreement with Natural Gas Pipeline Company of
4     2002   America for a 30-foot wide strip of land in the south 3,200 feet of the
             property described in Exhibit A
02-06 4-1-   Authorizing contract extension with Midland Waste
      2002
2002- 4-15-  Authorizing execution of IMLRMA minimum contribution agreement
07    2002
2002- 4-15-  Authorizing membership in the Municipal League Risk Management Association
08    2002   and intergovernmental agreement, for one year
Res.  5-6-   Approving plans and specifications for the improvement of FAP Route 793
05    2002   (U.S. Route 40) and Main Street, Section 37-1I-1RS
18    7-1-   Authorizing redevelopment agreement with the Great Skate
      2002
2003- 1-6-   Authorizing agreement with the state Department of Transportation to provide
01    2003   “National Scenic Byway” signs
2003- 1-6-   Authorizing agreement with Prime Development, Inc. for water and sewer
2     2003   service and pre-annexation contract for Stonebriar Estates, for 20 years
2003- 1-6-   Authorizing agreement with Prime Development, Inc. for water and sewer
3     2003   service and pre-annexation contract for Stonebriar Estates, for 20 years
03-06 3-3-   Authorizing emergency water supply agreement with the Village of Maryville
      2003
03-16 7-7-   Authorizing a joint agreement for construction and construction engineering
      2003   for road and intersection improvements
2003- 7-7-   Authorizing a lease/purchase agreement with Kansas State Bank of Manhattan
17    2003   for equipment
2003- 9-15-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with Pin Oak Township, a
14    2003   jurisdictional transfer of Whitworth Road to the city
04-04 2-2-   Authorizing an agreement with Wireless USA for relocation of Police
      2004   Department Radio Antenna
2004- 8-16-  Agreement between city and Russell Klaustermeier
22    2004
2004- 10-4-  Authorizing economic incentive agreement with Quad County Concrete, Inc. for
24    2004   development of production facility, for 72 months
2004- 10-14- Authorizing a ground lease agreement with Southwestern Bell Wireless LLC d/
26    2004   b/a/ Cingular Wireless for five years
2004- 11-1-  Authorizing IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement for one year
28    2004
2004- 11-1-  Authorizing agreement with the Illinois Department of Transportation for
29    2004   improvements of FAP Route 586 (Illinois Route 162), for widening and
             resurfacing road improvements
2005- 2-7-   Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the county to participate in
07    2005   the County Consortium for Cable Television Matters
2005- 2-7-   Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the Tri-Township Park District
08    2005   for construction of a skateboard park
2005- 3-21-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the Tri-Township Park District
10    2005   for Fourth of July fireworks display
2005- 3-21-  Authorizing redevelopment agreement with Troy Town Center, Inc. for
11    2005   financial assistance/incentives
2005- 6-20-  Authorizing lease agreement with Robert Harrison for lease of a building at
16    2005   800 S. Main for Paul Simon Museum
2005- 7-5-   Authorizing lease agreement with E-Village, Inc. for wireless pole, for
20    2005   three years
2005- 11-7-  Authorizing IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement with IML, for one
33    2005   year
2005- 11-7-  Authorizing redevelopment agreement with Troy Acquisition LLC for financial
34    2005   incentives for the Business District
2006- 1-17-  Agreement between city and Vandevanter Engineering
01    2006
2006- 2-6-   Authorizing agreement with Wireless USA for siren system
04    2006
2006- 3-20-  Execution of agreement for construction of culvert on Main Street through
11    2006   IDOT
2006- 6-5-   Authorizing agreement for water and sewer service and pre-annexation for
17    2006   Wendell Creek Estates, LLC
2006- 6-5-   Authorizing refuse and recyclable material collection contract with Allied
19    2006   Waste
2006- 8-7-   Authorizing a lease agreement with CTS Technology Solutions, Inc. for lease,
23    2006   maintenance and service of a telecommunication system for five years
2006- 10-2-  Authorizing site lease agreement with Wisper Wireless Internet, for three
28    2006   years
2006- 11-20- Authorizing IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement with IML, for one
31    2006   year
2007- 3-19-  Consulting agreement with Bud Klaustermeier
07    2007
2007- 10-1-  Execute an employee agreement between the city and Robert Rizzi
15    2007
2007- 10-1-  Execute a first amendment to employment agreement between city and Jeff
16    2007   Soland
2007- 11-5-  Authorizing IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement with IML, for one
19    2007   year
2008- 1-7-   Authorizing indemnification agreement with US Bank, N.A. as trustee of the
01    2008   Mary E. Price Cemetery Trust
2008- 3-17-  Authorizing agreement for technical services and assistance with Economic
05    2008   Development Resources, LLC for development of Comprehensive Plan, for 15
             months
2008- 5-19-  Authorizing intergovernmental agreement with the City of Collinsville
07    2008   regarding sale of a water line and water service accounts within
             Collinsville
2008- 11-17- Authorizing IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement with IML, for one
22    2008   year
2009- 1-20-  Employment agreement between city and Robert Rizzi
01    2009
2009- 5-4-   Employment agreement between city and Jeff Soland
03    2009
2009- 5-18-  Authorizing agreement with the Bank of Edwardsville, as trustee for the
04    2009   Ottwein Trust, of donation of land for road project
2009- 5-18-  Authorizing construction agreement with Keller Construction, Inc. for road
09    2009   project
2009- 6-1-   Authorizing a refuse and recyclable materials collection contract with
13    2009   Allied Waste; rates
2010- 1-4-   Authorizing agreement with Utility Cost Analysts for reductions in utility
01    2010   and telephone expenses, for one year
2011- 5-2-   Authorizing the city to enter into a refuse and recyclable material
04    2011   collection contract with Allied Waste
2011- 9-6-   Authorizing the Mayor and City Council to execute an agreement for
12    2011   participation in the Illinois Public Works Mutual Aid Network (IPWMAN)
2012- 4-12-  Authorizing the city to enter into a second amendment to the employment
03    2012   agreement between the city and Robert Rizzi
2012- 8-6-   Authorizing an agreement for water and sewer service and pre-annexation
12    2012   between the City of Troy, and Shadow Wood Development, L.L.C. for the
             annexation of certain property owned by Shadow Wood Development
2013- 9-3-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute a joint mutual
10    2013   release of duties and obligations and termination of redevelopment agreement
             between the city and Troy Town Center, Inc.
2013- 9-3-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute a third
11    2013   amendment to employment agreement between the city and Jeff Soland.
2014- 1-7-   Approving an intergovernmental cooperation agreement with the Village of
01    2014   Maryville regarding the boundary line between the parties.
      2-22-  A covenant between the city, a property owner, and a group of artists called
—   2014   the “Walldogs”, granting the Walldogs permission to paint a mural on the
             property owner’s building located at 201 East Market Street.
      3-31-  An agreement between the city and Morgan Economic Development for technical
—   2014   services and assistance in matters pertaining to the designation of a new
             enterprise zone.
2014- 4-21-  Approving a boundary line agreement with the Village of Glen Carbon.
05    2014
             Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an
2014- 7-21-  intergovernmental agreement between the City of Troy and Madison County,
14    2014   Illinois, relating to the Computer Aided Dispatch/Records Management System
             Expansion Project.
2015- 1-5-   Authorizing the city to enter into a refuse and recyclable material
02    2015   collection contract with Republic Services.
2015- 4-6-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute a fourth
09    2015   amendment to employment agreement between the City of Troy and Jeff Soland.
Res.  7-20-  Authorizing the city to enter into a license agreement with Global Health
2015- 2015   Training Institute to use a portion of Klaustermeier Park for a community
12           garden.
Res.  10-19- Authorizing the city to enter into a new elevated structure agreement with
2015- 2015   Wisper.
18
Res.  1-4-   Authorizing the city to enter into an amendment to the services agreement
2016- 2016   for professional energy consulting services with Good Energy, L.P.
02
Res.  2-19-  Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement between owner and engineer
2016- 2016   for professional services with Gonzalez Companies, LLC for water system
05           improvements.
             Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a collective
2016- 4-4-   bargaining agreement with the Department of Public Works and the
07    2016   International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District No.
             9.
2016- 4-18-  Authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing redevelopment
11    2016   agreement with St. George AG Service, Inc.
Res.  4-18-  Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement for professional services
2016- 2016   with Thouvenot, Wade & Moerchen, Inc., for a wastewater treatment facilities
13           plant.
2016- 5-2-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute a first
13    2016   amendment to employment agreement between the city and Brad Parsons.
2016- 5-2-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
14    2016   agreement between the city and Rob Hancock.
Res.  12-5-  Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement with Saltus Technologies,
2016- 2016   LLC for the purchase of Digiticket Electronic Ticketing Solution.
28
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the city to enter into a purchase agreement for real property
2017- 2017   with Andrew J. Bloom and Sheila R. Bloom.
02
2017- 5-15-  Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation agreement
10    2017   between the city and the Village of Glen Carbon.
2017- 6-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement between the city
12    2017   and Jeff Soland.
2017- 6-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement between the city
13    2017   and Brad Parsons.
2017- 6-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an employment agreement between the city
15    2017   and Rob Hancock.
Res.  11-6-  Authorizing the city to enter into an amendment to the aggregation program
2017- 2017   agreement previously executed in February, 2016, with Homefield Energy.
14
2018- 2-20-  Adopting an intergovernmental agreement between the Tri-Township Park
02    2018   District and the city for the purpose of leasing, designing, constructing,
             and maintaining a public parking lot.
Res.  3-19-  Authorizing the city to enter into a supplemental agreement to the emergency
2018- 2018   water supply agreement between the city and the Village of Maryville.
03
2018- 4-16-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a collective
07    2018   bargaining agreement with Troy Dispatchers and the Policemen’s Benevolent
             Labor Committee.
2018- 5-7-   Authorizing the execution of amendment #1 to the intergovernmental agreement
08    2018   between the Village of Glen Carbon and the city for improvements to Bouse
             Road at Old Troy road.
2018- 7-2-   Adopting an intergovernmental agreement between Triad Community Unit School
16    2018   District #2 and the city for the purpose of contract police services (school
             resource officer).
2018- 7-2-   Adopting an intergovernmental agreement between Triad Community Unit School
17    2018   District #2 and the city for the purpose of reciprocal reporting of criminal
             offenses committed by students.
Res.  10-1-  Authorizing the city to enter into a franchise agreement with Charter
2018- 2018   Communications Entertainment I, LLC for the construction and operation of a
09           cable system.
2018- 11-5-  Authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing development agreement
21    2018   between the city and RSAS, LLC.
Res.         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a local public agency agreement with the
2019- 1-14-  Illinois Department of Transportation for Federal Participation for the
01    2019   purpose of improving the intersection of Spring Valley Road and U.S. Route
             40.
2019- 1-22-  Authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing development agreement
01    2019   between the city and Aspen Creek Development, LLC.
Res.  2-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a local public agency agreement with
2019- 2019   Illinois Department of Transportation.
03
2019- 6-3-   Authorizing the execution of amendment #2 to the intergovernmental agreement
05    2019   between the Village of Glen Carbon, Illinois and the city
2019- 9-9-   Authorizing the city to enter into an employment agreement with Douglas
12    2019   Partney
Res.  11-4-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement with Madison
2019- 2019   County
18
Res.  3-2-
2020- 2020   Authorizing the city to enter into an agreement with Vollman Advertising
05
2020- 4-20-  Authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing development agreement
11    2020   between the city and Lochhill, LLC d/b/a The Sanctuary on Main
2020- 5-4-   Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a successor collective bargaining
12    2020   agreement with the Department of Public Works and the International
             Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District No. 9
             Authorizing the Mayor to execute a successor collective bargaining agreement
2020- 5-4-   with the supervisory unit of the Department of Public Works and the
13    2020   International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, District No.
             9
2020- 8-3-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement between the
18    2020   city and the Tri-Township Park District
2020- 10-5-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a successor collective bargaining
21    2020   agreement with the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor Committee
2020- 10-19- Authorizing the city to enter into a contract with Republic Services
24    2020
Res.  11-16-
2020- 2020   Approving a business district redevelopment agreement with Pete’s Market
21
2021- 2-16-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a donation agreement with the Doris J.
01    2021   Gause Declaration of Trust and for the city to accept said donation of
             property
2021- 3-15-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a successor
03    2021   collective bargaining agreement with the Fraternal Order of Police (FOP)
             (Sergeants)
Res.  4-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Melrose Pyrotechnics,
2021- 2021   Inc. to provide Fourth of July Fireworks
04
2021- 5-3-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a donation agreement with the Madison
06    2021   County Transit District (MCT)
Res.  5-17-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Troy Town Centre maintenance agreement
2021- 2021   with Osborn Development, LLC
06
2021- 6-6-   Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
12    2021   agreement between the city and Rob Hancock
2021- 6-16-  Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
11    2021   agreement between the city and Jay Keevan
2021- 6-16-  Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
13    2021   agreement between the city and Brent Shownes
2021- 6-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for water service and pre-
16    2021   annexation with CPO Investments, LLC (Schmalz Road Subdivision)
Res.  6-21-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to execute a local public agency
2021- 2021   agreement with Illinois Department of Transportation for federal
12           participation for the purpose of installing a turn lane
2021- 7-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Keller Construction, Inc.
15    2021
Res.  8-2-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for technical services and
2021- 2021   assistance (for Troy Business District V - Commercial Improvement District)
15           with Moran Economic Development, LLC
Res.  8-2-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for PE services with Oates and
2021- 2021   Associates and appraisal services with DJ Howard and Associates, Inc.
16
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for electric construction
2021- 2021   spray aeration system work with JF Electric, Inc.
19
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for dome modifications for
2021- 2021   spray aeration system work with DN Tanks of Illinois, LLC
20
Res.  9-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for spray aeration system with
2021- 2021   new clearwell work with IXOM Watercare, Inc.
21
Res.  9-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Moran Economic
2021- 2021   Development for professional services concerning the closeout/termination
24           and establishment of tax increment financing districts
Res.  9-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Moran Economic
2021- 2021   Development for professional services concerning the expansion of an
25           existing discovery zone
Res.  12-20-
2021- 2021   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a highway authority agreement
34
Res.  1-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a tax increment financing redevelopment
2022- 2022   agreement with EGG Development, LLC
02
Res.  1-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a master services agreement with Core &
2022- 2022   Main LP
03
Res.  1-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a software as a service agreement with
2022- 2022   Sensus
04
Res.  1-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for professional services with
2022- 2022   TWM, Inc.
05
             Adopting intergovernmental agreements between the Tri- Township Park
2022- 2-7-   District and the city for the purpose of providing the necessary easements
02    2022   and vacations for maintenance of a bike trail on Tri-Township Park District
             property
Res.  4-4-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Pyrotechnico to provide
2022- 2022   Fourth of July fireworks
17
2022- 4-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a collective
13    2022   bargaining agreement with Troy Dispatchers and the Policemen’s Benevolent
             Labor Committee
Res.  4-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement with Jarvis
2022- 2022   Township
22
Res.  4-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an elevated structure lease agreement with
2022- 2022   Jarvis Township
23
Res.  5-16-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement with the
2022- 2022   Illinois Office of the Comptroller for the purpose of obtaining access to
25           the Local Debt Recovery Program
Res.  7-5-   Authorizing the purchase of three license plate reader (LPR) devices, to
2022- 2022   include installation, from Utilitra
29
Res.  8-15-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a tax increment financing redevelopment
2022- 2022   agreement with Pfund Construction Company, Inc.
30
Res.  8-15-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign a project agreement with the Metro East Parks
2022- 2022   and Recreation District (MEPRD) to extend the Tri-Township Park Trail to
31           U.S. Senator Paul Simon Park
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with the Illinois
2022- 2022   Department of Transportation (IDOT) for phases 2 and 3 of the Clay Street
35           reconstruction project
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign a contract with Keller Construction, Inc. for
2022- 2022   Serenade Park Water Feature Playscape
36
Res.  9-19-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a change order with Landscape Structures,
2022- 2022   Inc. for the Serenade Park Pool System
37
Res.  10-17- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with the Illinois
2022- 2022   Department of Transportation (IDOT) for phases 2 and 3 of the Clay Street
38           reconstruction project
2022- 11-7-  Renewing an existing electric utility system franchise for a period of 30
62    2022   years to Ameren Illinois
Res.  11-7-  Authorizing the City Administrator to enter into an electrical and natural
2022- 2022   gas supply agreement
44
Res.  11-21- Authorizing membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management
2022- 2022   Association and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental
45           cooperation contract
Res.  1-17-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with Oates Associates for
2023- 2023   the Clay Street phases 2 and 3 projects
05
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a development agreement with Osborn
2023- 2023   Development, LLC
11
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a donation agreement with Osborn
2023- 2023   Development, LLC (Formosa Road right-of-way parcel number 1 of 2)
12
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a donation agreement with Osborn
2023- 2023   Development, LLC (Formosa Road right-of-way parcel number 2 of 2)
13
Res.  2-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with RTM Engineering
2023- 2023   Consultants for ornamental lighting and burying utilities on Market Street
15           from Main Street to Hickory Street
2023- 4-17-  Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
19    2023   agreement between the city and Jay Keeven
2023- 4-17-  Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
20    2023   agreement between the city and Rob Hancock
Res.  4-17-  Authorizing the City Administrator to execute an agreement with Pyrotecnico
2023- 2023   to provide Fourth of July fireworks
21
Res.  5-1-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with Moran Economic
2023- 2023   Development for professional services concerning the development of a tax
24           increment financing district
Res.  5-15-  Authorizing the execution of a tax increment financing redevelopment
2023- 2023   agreement with Eric and India Johnson
25
Res.  5-15-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with FGM Architects for
2023- 2023   professional services regarding the preparation of a planning study
26           regarding the city's police and general administrative facilities
Res.  8-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute and agreement with GRP Wegman Company
2023- 2023   concerning a guaranteed energy savings contract
31
Res.  8-7-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with the Illinois
2023- 2023   Department of Transportation regarding a US-40 shared use path from South
32           Main Street to Creekside Drive
Res.  8-21-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with the Illinois Department
2023- 2023   of Transportation for a joint funding agreement regarding a roadway
34           improvement of Formosa Road
2023- 9-18-  Authorizing the city to enter into and the Mayor to execute an employment
48    2023   agreement between the city and Chris Wasser
Res.  11-6-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement with ILWARN for the Illinois
2023- 2023   Water and Wastewater Network
46
Res.  11-20- Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for PE services with Oates
2023- 2023   Associates and appraisal services with DJ Howard and Associates, Inc.
47
Res.  3-18-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement for PE services with Oates
2024- 2024   Associates
07
Res.  3-18-  Authorizing execution of a service agreement with Homefield Energy to supply
2024- 2024   electricity for customers who did not opt out of program
08
Res.  3-18-  Authorizing execution of a memorandum of understanding to extend agreement
2024- 2024   with International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
10
Res.  4-1-   Authorizing execution of an agreement with Pyrotecnico to provide July 4
2024- 2024   fireworks
11
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with IDOT
2024- 2024   regarding East Market Street streetscape improvements
15
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with IDO
2024- 2024   regarding road improvements
16
2024- 5-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a successor
18    2024   collective bargaining agreement with the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor
             Committee
2024- 5-6-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a successor
19    2024   collective bargaining agreement with the association of Machinists and
             Aerospace Workers, District No. 9
             Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a successor
2024- 5-6-   collective bargaining agreement with the supervisory unit of the Department
20    2024   of Public Works and the International Association of Machinists and
             Aerospace Workers, District No. 9
2024- 5-6-   Approving the extension of a boundary line agreement with the Village of
21    2024   Glen Carbon
Res.  5-20-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement with Jarvis
2024- 2024   Township for the purchase, maintenance and use of a paver
17
2024- 6-17-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute and the city to enter into a successor
38    2024   collective bargaining agreement with the Policemen’s Benevolent Labor
             Committee (PBPA) (Sergeants)
Res.  6-17-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a street sign and support agreement with
2024- 2024   Charleston Subdivision Homeowners Association
18
Res.  7-1-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a water tank maintenance contract for
2024- 2024   services with Utility Service Co., Inc. (Dairy Queen tank at 810
19           Edwardsville Road)
Res.  7-1-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a water tank maintenance contract for
2024- 2024   services with Utility Service Co., Inc. (plant tank at 624 East Center
20           Street)
Res.  7-15-  Authorizing the Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement with IDOT for
2024- 2024   Market Street sidewalk improvements from Hickory to Dewey Streets
23
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute a TIF redevelopment agreement with Larry
2024- 2024   Luebbers
25
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing the execution of a maintenance agreement with CPO Investments,
2024- 2024   LLC (West Wind Villas)
28
Res.  8-5-   Authorizing the Mayor to execute an intergovernmental agreement for contract
2024- 2024   police services with the Madison County Regional Office of Education No. 41
32
Res.  10-21- Authorizing the Mayor to execute an agreement/engineering proposal with
2024- 2024   Benton & Associates for value engineering review
39
Res.  10-21- Authorizing the Mayor to execute a redevelopment agreement with Ridge
2024- 2024   Investment Group, LLC
40
Res.  12-6-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a supplemental agreement with
2024- 2024   Lochmueller Group for design engineering services
44
            
 
 
TABLE VIII: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date      Description
         Passed
                   Annexation of three tracts on or near Illinois Highway 162,
2000-04  2-22-2000 Parcels No. 09-1-22-08-02-201.019, 09-1-22-08-00-000-
                   009.002, 09-1-22-08-00-000-009.005 and 09-1-22-08-02-201.020
2000-05  2-22-2000 Annexing certain properties located on or near Eilering/
                   Durley 2.0 acre tract
2000-07  4-3-2000  Annexing certain property owned by James D. Laughlin
2000-23  10-16-    Annexing certain property owned by the city and Jerry and
         2000      Theresa Lanahan
2000-28  12-4-2000 Annexing certain property owned by Herbert J. Hustedde and
                   Clarence Adelhardt
2000-29  12-4-2000 Annexing certain properties formerly owned by Clarence and
                   Jane Adelhardt
2002-16  7-1-2002  Annexing certain properties located on Lakewood Drive in
                   Lake Terrace Estates
2002-25  10-21-    Annexing certain property located on or near Parkview Court
         2002
2002-31  12-2-2002 Pre-annexation agreement for 146 acres owned by Sarah Bouse
                   and Sharon Lyn Bouse Murphy, trustees
                   Authorizing agreement with Prime Development, Inc. for water
2003-2   1-6-2003  and sewer service and pre-annexation contract for Stonebriar
                   Estates, for 20 years
                   Authorizing agreement with Prime Development, Inc. for water
2003-3   1-6-2003  and sewer service and pre-annexation contract for Stonebriar
                   Estates, for 20 years
2003-25  11-17-    Annexing certain property owned by Dale and Charlotte
         2003      Hassebrock, 401 Creekside Drive
2003-27  12-15-    Annexing certain property owned by Alvin and Mildred Loyet
         2003
2004-07  5-3-2004  Annexing certain property owned by Joseph and Donald Osborn,
                   65.47 acres on the east side of Formosa Road
2004-09  5-20-2004 Pre-annexation agreement for 75.76 acres owned by Donald P.
                   and Joseph E. Osborn
                   Annexing three parcels: 27.18 acres, 16.77 acres, and 31.81
2004-10  5-20-2004 acres, all part of the SE quarter and part of the NE quarter
                   of Section 6, Township 3 N, Range 7 W of the 3rd PM
                   Annexing certain property owned by Mark. A. Pahl and Susan
2004-14  6-21-2004 K. Hartman, and contract purchasers Joseph and Donald
                   Osborn, 130.80 acres on the east side of S. Formosa Road
                   Annexing certain property owned by Donald E. and Carol A.
2004-15  7-6-2004  Aumann, and contract purchasers Joseph and Donald Osborn, 31
                   acres on the east side of Spring Valley Road
2004-19  7-19-2004 Annexing certain property known as “The Homes of Libery
                   Place”
                   Annexing certain property owned by the city, 1.225 acres on
2004-25  10-4-2004 the north side of Illinois Highway 162 near Old Troy Road,
                   a/k/a Ground Storage Tank Facility
2005-35  11-7-2005 Pre-annexation agreement for 39.69 acres of Stonebriar
                   Manors, Inc.
2006-25  8-21-2006 Annexation agreement for 132 acres of real estate owned by
                   or under contract to PM Office Park, LLC
2006-26  8-21-2006 Annexing 132 acres owned by PM Office Park, LLC
                   Annexing certain property owned by Donald P. Osburn, 49.93
2006-27  10-2-2006 acres on the west side of South Formosa Road, a/k/a the Arth
                   Property or Bristel
2007-01  1-16-2007 Annexation agreement for 17.68 acres owned by Robert and
                   Patsy Moore
2007-02  1-16-2007 Annexing certain property, approx. 17.68 acres
2008-10  6-2-2008  Annexing certain property owned by multiple owners (Ottwein
                   et al.)
2008-16  9-15-2008 Annexation agreement for 18.90 acres owned by Windson Way,
                   LLC, Villas of Windsor Way, LLC and Prime Development, Inc.
2008-17  9-15-2008 Annexing certain property, 18.90 acres owned by Windson Way,
                   LLC, Villas of Windsor Way, LLC and Prime Development, Inc.
2008-24  12-15-    Annexation agreement for 50.66 acres owned by Bristel
         2008      Village, LLC
2008-25  12-15-    Annexing certain property, 50.66 acres owned by Bristel
         2008      Village, LLC
                   Annexing property owned by Osborn Development, LLC, 11.40
2009-11  6-1-2009  acres more or less, on the north side of Edwardsville Road,
                   known as Troy Town Centre
2010-03  1-19-2010 Annexing certain property owned by Norris R. Brase, 216
                   Hazel Street
2011-02  4-4-2011  Annexing a four-acre tract immediately to the east of 2120
                   Liebler Road owned by Central Illinois Trucks, Inc.
2011-11  7-18-2011 Annexing a two acre, plus/minus, in Fawn Meadows Subdivision
                   at 1002 Antler Drive owned by Brandon Rakers
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 404 through
2011-17  11-7-2011 410 Collinsville Road, owned by William and Jane Kueker, to
                   and in the city
2012-04  5-7-2012  Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 217 Hazel
                   Street, owned by Rose Mary Schultze, to and in the city
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 2011 Formosa
2014-09  6-2-2014  Road, owned by the Wilfred I. Meier and Rose T. Meier
                   Trusts, to and in the city
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 205 Arrowhead
2015-10  4-20-2015 Drive, owned by Douglas and Tammy Lynn Rader, to and in the
                   city
2016-02  2-1-2016  Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 316 Hazel
                   Street, owned by Robert and Keith Potts, to and in the city
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory known as 7606 Plummer
2016-23  8-1-2016  Business Drive, owned by William and Sharon Placht, to and
                   in the city
2016-30  11-21-    Annexing and zoning certain territory namely, 105.25 acres
         2016      on the west side of Staunton Road to and in the city
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory, namely a 40.01 acre
2018-01  2-5-2018  tract of land on the south side of State Route 162, also
                   known as the Rose Subdivision owned by Jacqueline M. and
                   Edward T. Rose
2018-05  4-2-2018  Annexing and zoning certain property namely, 2400 Riggin
                   Road, owned by Joey A. McDowell
2018-10  5-7-2018  Annexing and zoning certain property namely, 2101 Formosa
                   Road, owned by the Winfred and Rose Meier Trust
2019-02  3-4-2019  Amending Ordinance 2008-16 and the annexation agreement
                   pertaining to the Windsor Way Development property
         10-21-    Annexing territory into the city, located in the northeast
2019-15  2019      quarter of Section 13, Township 3 north, Range 8 west,
                   containing 5.33 acres
2022-04  2-22-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to Lot 70 in Oakland Hills
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-05  2-22-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to Lot 1 of Birkhead Estates
                   Subdivision
2022-06  3-21-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 207 Hazel Street
2022-07  3-21-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 5 Traci Ann Court
2022-08  3-21-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 528 Coventry
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-09  3-21-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 9008 North Blue Haven
                   Drive
2022-15  6-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 9 Rachael Court
2022-16  6-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 68 Lake Shore
2022-17  6-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 220 Michael Drive
2022-18  6-6-2022  Annexing and zoning certain territory, namely 2352 Staunton
                   Road
2022-19  6-6-2022  Annexing and zoning certain territory, namely 500 East
                   Center Street
2022-20  6-6-2022  Annexing and zoning certain territory, namely 703 Huntley
                   Court
2022-24  7-18-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 4 Sequoia Drive
2022-25  7-18-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 29 Sequoia Drive
2022-26  7-18-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 70 Lake Shore Drive
2022-27  7-18-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8572 Country Lane
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-28  7-18-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 9003 and 9007 Blue Haven
                   Drive
                   Annexing certain territory owned by Osborn Development, LLC
                   to and in the city conditioned on changing the zoning
2022-29  8-1-2022  designations of that territory from R-1 Single- family
                   Residential to R-1A Single-family Residential and C-
                   1 Neighborhood Commercial
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2022-30  8-15-2022 namely 8438 Country Lane owned by Randy A. Tonya K.
                   Holzinger
2022-32  9-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 13 Lake Drive
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-33  9-6-2022  annexation agreement pertaining to 15 Willett Drive, St.
                   Jacob
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-34  9-6-2022  annexation agreement pertaining to 213 Willow Drive,
                   Collinsville
2022-35  9-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 521 Coventry Road
2022-36  9-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1105 Antler Drive
2022-37  9-6-2022  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 23 Lake Drive
2022-38  9-19-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 41 Fox Creek
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-39  9-19-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 112 Melanie Lane,
                   Collinsville
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-40  9-19-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 127 David Drive,
                   Collinsville
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-41  9-19-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 7401 Sunset Acres Drive,
                   Collinsville
2022-44  10-3-2022 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 2466 Formosa Road
2022-48  10-17-    Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
         2022      annexation agreement pertaining to 501 Coventry Road
2022-49  10-17-    Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
         2022      annexation agreement pertaining to 1226 Troy O’fallon Road
2022-50  10-17-    Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
         2022      annexation agreement pertaining to 1317 Bridlespur Lane
2022-51  10-17-    Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
         2022      annexation agreement pertaining to 2307 Timber Ridge Road
2022-52  10-17-    Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
         2022      annexation agreement pertaining to 8552 Country Lane
2022-53  10-17-    Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
         2022      namely 411 Arrowhead Drive owned by Jacquelyn R. Bush
2022-54  10-17-    Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
         2022      namely 601 East Center Street owned by Sarah Jordan
2022-55  10-17-    Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
         2022      namely 1001 Antler Drive owned by Amanda Hund
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-56  11-7-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 109 Dale Avenue,
                   Collinsville
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2022-57  11-7-2022 annexation agreement pertaining to 251 South Wilson Heights
                   Road
2022-58  11-7-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 515 Coventry Road
2022-59  11-7-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 616 Woodland Court
2022-60  11-7-2022 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1067 K-A Acres Road
2023-02  1-17-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 20 Doug Drive
2023-03  1-17-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 93 Red Coach Lane
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2023-04  1-17-2023 annexation agreement pertaining to 245 S Wilson Heights
                   Road, Collinsville
2023-05  1-17-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8426 Steelecrest Lane
2023-06  1-17-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8806 Country Lane
2023-08  2-21-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 4 Parklane Drive
2023-09  2-21-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 125 Oakland Drive
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2023-10  2-21-2023 annexation agreement pertaining to 2040 Grandview Drive, St.
                   Jacob
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-11  2-21-2023 namely 305 Arrowhead Drive owned by Koty and Christy
                   Whitaker
2023-12  2-21-2023 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 505 Arrowhead Drive owned by Christopher LaPeire
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-13  2-21-2023 namely 507 Bliss Lane and 502 E. Center Street owned by
                   Ellen and Christopher Brawner
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-14  2-21-2023 namely 2401 Staunton Drive owned by Christopher and Holly
                   Teague
2023-22  5-15-2023 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 95 West Lake Drive owned by Cynthia Strunk
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-23  5-15-2023 namely 204 Arrowhead Drive owned by Eric R. Smith and Lauren
                   V. Smith
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-24  5-15-2023 namely 711 Cheshire Road owned by Michael T. Morrisette and
                   Mary Kate R. Morrisette
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-25  5-15-2023 namely the southerly 350 feet of a vacant tract with PID 09-
                   1-22-10-00-000-0 06 owned by the Jeanne L. Bohnenstiehl
                   Living Trust
2023-26  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 10 Rachael Court
2023-27  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 76 West Lake Drive
2023-28  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 201 Willow Drive
2023-29  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 206 Hazel Street
2023-30  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 206 Willow Drive
2023-31  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 625 Buckingham Drive
2023-32  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 627 East Hwy 40
2023-33  6-5-2023  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 2100 Kennedy Drive
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-34  6-5-2023  namely 81 acres on Schamlz Road owned by CPO Investments,
                   LLC
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-37  6-19-2023 namely Stonebriar Subdivision and Stonebriar Manors owned by
                   Prime Development, Inc.
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-40  7-3-2023  namely 8740 State Route 162 with PIN# 09-2-22-10-20-401-0 01
                   owned by Patricia and Gary Cole
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-41  7-17-2023 namely seven tracts of ground comprising Triad High School
                   at 703 E. US Highway
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2023-44  8-7-2023  namely Shadow Woods Subdivision owned by Shadow Wood
                   Development, LLC
2023-55  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 9 Zachary Court
2023-56  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 39 Bullseye Drive
2023-57  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 63 Lake Shore Drive
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2023-58  11-6-2023 annexation agreement pertaining to 103 Willow Drive,
                   Collinsville
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2023-59  11-6-2023 annexation agreement pertaining to 110 Melanie Lane,
                   Collinsville
2023-60  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 164 Oakland Drive
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2023-61  11-6-2023 annexation agreement pertaining to Lots 20 - 24 at 230 South
                   Wilson Heights Road, Collinsville
2023-62  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 212 Michael Drive
2023-63  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 236 Michael Drive
2023-64  11-6-2023 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 252 Michael Drive
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-01  1-2-2024  namely 727 East US Hwy 40 owned by Jeff and Craig
                   Klingelhoefer
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-02  1-2-2024  namely 8450 Country Lane owned by Jayme and Stanley
                   Marmuziewicz, Jr.
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-03  1-2-2024  namely 1501 and 1515 Formosa Road owned by The Sue Wopat
                   Trust
2024-07  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1 Matthew Allen Court
2024-08  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 15 Lake Drive
2024-09  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 11 David Drive, St. Jacob
2024-10  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 23 David Drive, St. Jacob
2024-11  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 81 West Lake Drive
2024-12  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 618 East Brentmoor Drive
2024-13  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 2306 Timber Ridge Road
                   Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
2024-14  3-18-2024 annexation agreement pertaining to 2407 Timber Creek, St.
                   Jacob
2024-15  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 7912 Collinsville Road
2024-16  3-18-2024 Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 9017 State Route 162
2024-24  5-20-2024 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 208 Arrowhead Drive owned by Christopher D. Prosser
2024-25  5-20-2024 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 209 Hazel Street owned by Carl Teets and Dawn Wilson
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-26  5-20-2024 namely 704 Cheshire Road owned by Gregory and Sherrie
                   Lawrence
2024-27  5-20-2024 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 8408 Country Lane owned by Lorenzo Reid
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-28  5-20-2024 namely 8734 State Route 162 owned by the Roti Roti Family
                   Revocable Trust
2024-31  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 97 Red Coach Lane
2024-32  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1303 Access Road
2024-33  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1306 Bridlespur Lane
2024-34  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8432 Steelecrest Lane
2024-35  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8436 Steelecrest Lane
2024-36  6-3-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 8439 Steelecrest Lane
2024-41  7-1-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1200 Norman D Acres Road
2024-42  7-1-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 1208 Norman D Acres Road
2024-43  7-1-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 2100 Kennedy Drive
2024-44  7-1-2024  Authorizing the execution of a water service and pre-
                   annexation agreement pertaining to 4112 Antler Point
                   Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
2024-52  8-19-2024 namely 49 Lake Drive, owned by Savvy Technical Solutions,
                   LLC/Rebecca and Ryan Bertram
2024-53  8-19-2024 Annexing and zoning certain territory to and in the city,
                   namely 514 East Center Street, owned by Donald Jason Ramert
                  
                  
 
 
 
TABLE IX: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
2000- 2-7-   Rezoning Parcels No. 09-2-22-07-08-201-061 and 09-2-22-07-08-201-063 from
01    2000   R-1 to C-3
2000- 2-7-   Rezoning Parcel No. 09-2-22-07-08-201-045 from R-1 to C-2
02    2000
2000- 4-3-   Zoning newly annexed property owned by James D. Laughlin as R-1
07    2000
2000- 5-1-   Rezoning Parcels No. 09-1-22-08-00-000-015.002 and 09-1-22-08-00-000-
09    2000   015.001 from R-1 to A-R
2000- 10-2-  Rezoning Parcel No. 09-1-22-16-00-000-005.001 from R-1 to C-2
21    2000
2000- 10-16- Zoning newly annexed property owned by the city and Jerry and Theresa
23    2000   Lanahan, as R-1
2000- 12-4-  Zoning newly annexed property owned by Herbert J. Hustedde and Clarence
28    2000   Adelhardt, as R-1
2000- 12-4-  Zoning newly annexed properties formerly owned by Clarence and Jane
29    2000   Adelhardt; as R-1
2001- 1-16-  Rezoning a 5.26 acre tract owned by Clarence Adelhardt from R-1 to I-2
2     2001
2001- 2-5-   Rezoning properties in Ackerman Place and Orchard Court from R-2 and C-
03    2001   2 to R-1
2001- 3-19-  Rezoning certain property in Avalon Heights and Creekside from R-2 to R-1
06    2001
2001- 7-9-   Rezoning the Sartoris property on Collinsville Road from R-2 to R-1
16    2001
2002- 7-1-   Rezoning specific parcels in the Taylor Addition and adjacent properties
17    2002   from R-2 to R-1
2003- 4-21-  Rezoning 311 Edwardsville Road from R-2 to C-2
07    2003
2003- 11-17- Zoning newly annexed property owned by Dale and Charlotte Hassebrock, 401
25    2003   Creekside Drive, as R-1
2003- 12-15- Zoning newly annexed property owned by Alvin and Mildred Loyet, as R-1
27    2003
2004- 5-3-   Zoning newly annexed property owned by Joseph and Donald Osborn, 65.47
07    2004   acres on the east side of Formosa Road, as R-1
2004- 5-20-  Rezoning three parcels newly annexed as R-2, R-3 and C-2
10    2004
2004- 5-20-  Rezoning certain property known as the Osborn North Formosa Road
11    2004   property, located at Bouse Road and North Formosa Road, from R-1 to R-2,
             R-3 and C-2
2004- 6-21-  Zoning newly annexed property owned by Mark. A. Pahl and Susan K.
14    2004   Hartman, and contract purchasers Joseph and Donald Osborn, 130.80 acres
             on the east side of South Formosa Road, as R-1
2004- 7-6-   Zoning newly annexed property owned by Donald E. and Carol A. Aumann, and
15    2004   contract purchasers Joseph and Donald Osborn, 31 acres on the east side
             of Spring Valley Road, as R-1
2004- 7-6-   Rezoning 22.62 acres bounded by North Dewey Street to the south and Hazel
17    2004   Street to the north from R-2 to R-1
2004- 7-19-  Zoning newly annexed property known as “The Homes of Libery Place” as R-1
19    2004
2004- 10-4-  Zoning newly annexed property owned by the city, 1.225 acres on the north
25    2004   side of Illinois Highway 162 near Old Troy Road, a/k/a Ground Storage
             Tank Facility, as R-1
2005- 2-7-   Rezoning properties on the east side of Staunton Road south to Market
05    2005   Street and east to Dewey Street, from R-2 to R-1
2005- 5-2-   Rezoning certain properties bounded by Bargraves on the west, Zenk and
14    2005   Reid to the north, Franklin to the east and Orchard and Briarwood to the
             south, from R-3 to R-2 and R-1, and from R-2 to R-1
2006- 7-5-   Rezoning certain properties on the south side of Highway 40, from I-2 to
20    2006   C-3
2006- 8-7-   Rezoning 5.01 acres on the west end of Henderson Street, from C-2 to R-2
24    2006
2006- 8-21-  Zoning newly annexed property, 132 acres owned by PM Office Park, LLC, as
26    2006   R-1
2006- 10-2-  Zoning newly annexed property owned by Donald P. Osburn, 49.93 acres on
27    2006   the west side of South Formosa Road, a/k/a the Arth Property or Bristel,
             as R-1
2007- 1-16-  Zoning newly annexed property, approx. 17.68 acres, as R-1
02    2007
2007- 1-16-  Rezoning 14.28 acres of the Robert and Patsy Moore property from R-1 to
03    2007   PD-R
2008- 6-2-   Zoning newly annexed property owned by multiple owners (Ottwein et al.),
10    2008   as R-1
2008- 6-16-  Rezoning The Greens of Troy, 1.76 acres on the west side of Dorothy
13    2008   Drive, from A-R to C-1
2008- 9-15-  Zoning newly annexed property, 18.90 acres owned by Windson Way, LLC,
17    2008   Villas of Windsor Way, LLC and Prime Development, Inc., as R-1
2008- 9-15-  Rezoning certain property known as the Windsor Way Development property,
18    2008   from R-1 and C-3 (7.26 acres) to PD-B, and 21.65 acres from R-1 to PD-R
2008- 10-20- Rezoning 319, 326 and 327 Jarvis Court from C-2 to R-2
20    2008
2008- 12-15- Zoning newly annexed property, 50.66 acres owned by Bristel Village, LLC,
25    2008   as R-2
2008- 12-15- Rezoning certain property known as the Carrington Farms Villas
26    2008   development, 50.66 acres, from R-1 to R-2
2009- 6-1-   Zoning newly annexed property owned by Osborn Development, LLC, 11.40
11    2009   acres more or less on the north side of Edwardsville Road, known as Troy
             Town Centre, as R-1
2009- 6-1-   Rezoning property known as Troy Town Centre from R-1 to C-2
12    2009
2009- 7-6-   Rezoning certain property known as the Buesking property, being vacant
16    2009   land to the southwest of Walgreens at 704 Edwardsville Road, from A-R to
             C-2
2010- 1-19-  Zoning newly annexed property owned by Norris R. Brase, 216 Hazel Street,
03    2010   as R-1
2010- 2-16-  Rezoning property known as 216 Hazel Street, from R-1 to R-2
07    2010
2011- 4-18-  Rezoning certain property located immediately to the east of 2120 Liebler
03    2011   Road
2011- 10-3-  Rezoning certain properties located in the Downtown District to C-4 Old
15    2011   Town
2012- 5-21-  Rezoning certain vacant land located at 217 Hazel Street from R-1 to R-2
05    2012
2012- 8-20-  Rezoning a six-acre tract of vacant land on the east side of the south
16    2012   end of SrA Bradley Smith Drive from A-R to C-2
2013- 10-21- Rezoning a vacant 9.71 acre tract in the Greens of Troy (Lots 4 - 10) on
14    2013   the east side of SrA Bradley Smith Drive from A-R to C-2
2014- 6-2-   Rezoning properties bordered by the city limits on the west, Wickliffe on
08    2014   the north, South Main Street on the east, and Highway 40 on the south
2014- 6-16-  Rezoning certain property located at 2011 Formosa Road, from R-1 to C-3
11    2014
2014- 11-17- Rezoning multiple properties bordered by South Main Street on the west,
21    2014   Center and Market Streets to the north
2015- 2-17-  Rezoning 412/414 Redbird Street from MH to R-2
06    2015
2015- 3-16-  Rezoning specific tracts of land on the east side of the First Addition
07    2015   to Waterford Place from C-2 to I-1
2015- 4-20-  Rezoning specific tracts of land on the west side of S. Main Street, 803
11    2015   and 805 S. Main Street and 106 Fitch Street, from R-2 to C-2
2015- 6-15-  Rezoning 25+ acres on the east side of SrA Bradely Smith Drive from AR to
17    2015   PD-R
2015- 6-15-  Rezoning 49.93 acres of land on the west side of S. Formosa Road,
18    2015   Carrington Farms, a proposed 114 lot residential development, from R-1 to
             R-1A
2016- 4-18-  Rezoning a 5 acre tract of land on the east side of Formosa Road, EJ
12    2016   Equipment site, from A-R to C-3
2016- 7-18-  Rezoning 1972 Gliddon Boulevard (Lot D44) and 1981 Gliddon Boulevard (Lot
21    2016   D1) in the Windsor Way Planned Development, from R-3 to R-1
2018- 5-21-  Rezoning 2101 Formosa Road from R-1 Single-family Residential to C-
11    2018   3 Highway Commercial
2018- 7-2-   Rezoning approximately 40 acres at 7300 - 7312 State Route 162 from R-
15    2018   1 Single-family Residential to PD-R Planned Development-Residential
2021- 4-5-   Rezoning a 16.97 acre tract on the west side of SrA Bradley Smith Drive
04    2021   from R-1 Single-family Residential to C-2 General Commercial
2021- 6-7-   Rezoning Homes at Liberty Place Phases 3-6, a 75+ acre tract, from R-
10    2021   1 Single-family Residential to R-1A Single-family Residential
             Rezoning more or less than 11 acres on Town Centre from R-1 Single-family
2022- 8-15-  Residential to R-1A Single-family Residential; plus or minus three acres
31    2022   on Town Centre from C-2 General Commercial to R-1A Single-family
             Residential; and 5.26 acres on Troy Boulevard from R-1 Single-family
             Residential to C-1 Neighborhood Commercial
2023- 1-17-  Rezoning approximately 11 acres of approximately 20 acres of a vacant
01    2023   tract at 2466 Formosa Road from R-1 Single-family Residential to I-
             1 Light Industry
2023- 3-20-  Rezoning approximately 9 acres of approximately 20 acres of a vacant
16    2023   tract at 2466 Formosa Road from R-1 Single-family Residential to R-2 Two-
             family Residential
2023- 3-20-  Rezoning Belle Rose Manor, a multi-family development on W. Center
17    2023   Street, from C-2 General Commercial to PD-R Planned Development-
             Residential
2023- 9-18-  Rezoning Shadow Woods Phase 3 from R-1 Single-family Residential to PD-
51    2023   R Planned Development-Residential
2023- 11-20- Rezoning 2247 Formosa Road from I-1 Light Industry to R-2 Two-family
66    2023   Residential
2024- 1-16-  Rezoning 1501 and 1515 Formosa Road from R-1 Single-family Residential to
04    2024   I-1 Light Industry
2024- 8-19-  Rezoning approximately 37.9 acres west of Staunton Road from R-1 Single-
54    2024   family Residential to R-1E Single-family Residential
            
 
TABLE X: SPECIAL USES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Amending Ord. 1996-12 issuing special use permit for
2002-26      10-21-2002  certain property commonly known as Fountain Assisted
                         Living Development
2005-12      4-18-2005   Special use permit for seasonal basis of fresh sweet
                         corn stand
2005-30      10-17-2005  Special use permit to replace the current mobile home
                         that is not in MH zoning district
2005-31      10-17-2005  Special use for automotive parts store to operate in
                         I-2 zoning district
2005-36      11-21-2006  Concerning Ord. 2004-24 of City Zoning Code; special
                         use for RETKO Group LLC for indoor/outdoor storage
2006-15      5-1-2006    Special use for a specific operation (shaved ice stand
                         at 440 Edwardsville Road)
                         Special use for a specific parcel; construction of a
2006-16      5-15-2006   duplex on a lot zoned C-2 General Commercial at 107
                         Border Street
                         Concerning Ord. 2004-21 of City Zoning Code; special
2008-12      6-16-2008   use of a specific parcel for a temporary bank trailer
                         during demolition at 304 Bargraves Boulevard
                         Concerning Ord. 2004-21 for purpose of granting a
2010-12      5-17-2010   specific use of a specific parcel for operation of a
                         seasonal Tropical Sno at 284 Riggin Road
                         Special use permit to place a outdoor accessory
2012-13      8-6-2012    structure and picnic area with surrounding gardens on
                         the Tri-Township Library's vacant lot at 106 Oak
                         Street
2012-15      8-20-2012   Special use permit for a specific parcel (operation of
                         a seasonal Tropical Sno at 440 Edwardsville Road)
                         Special use permit for a specific parcel (operation of
2012-21      11-19-2012  a small engine repair business at 218 Edwardsville
                         Road)
                         Special use permit for a specific parcel (operation of
2014-10      6-16-2014   a bridal shop and hall along with any associated
                         bridal and wedding services at 312 S. Main Street)
                         Special use permit for a specific parcel (operation of
                         a medical cannabis cultivation facility licensed by
2014-17      9-15-2014   the Illinois Department of Agriculture under the
                         Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Marijuana Pilot
                         Program Act)
Res. 2015-11 6-15-2015   Granting of a variance
2016-16      5-16-2016   Special use permit for a specific parcel (operation of
                         an automotive repair business at 320 E. Center Street)
                         Granting a special use on a specific parcel
2018-19      9-17-2018   (construction of a utility substation at 2341 Staunton
                         Road)
2019-04      4-15-2019   Granting a special use on a specific parcel
                         (construction of a paint booth at 1920 Formosa Road)
Res. 2019-11 7-1-2019    Granting a variation to the subdivision ordinance
Res. 2019-12 7-1-2019    Granting a variance to the subdivision ordinance
2021-26      11-1-2021   Granting a special use on a specific parcel (adult-use
                         cannabis dispensary at 904 Edwardsville Road)
2021-27      11-1-2021   Granting a special use on a specific parcel (truck
                         light- maintenance facility at 820 Edwardsville Road)
2022-12      4-4-2022    Granting a special use on a specific parcel (Seasonal
                         Tropical Sno Business at 284 Riggin Road)
Res._2022-42 10-17-2022  Granting a variation to the Stormwater Code
2023-15      3-20-2023   Granting a special use on a specific parcel (four-
                         family apartment building at 105 S. Border Street)
2023-21      4-17-2023   Granting a special use on a specific parcel (a single-
                         family dwelling at 110 W. Market Street)
2023-42      8-7-2023    Granting a special use on a specific parcel (203 E.
                         Highway 40)
2023-67      11-6-2023   Granting a special use on specific parcels (dog
                         boarding facility at 7721/7725 Plummer Business Drive)
2024-29      5-20-2024   Granting a special use on a specific parcel
                         (automotive repair business at 320 E. Center Street)
2024-30      5-20-2024   Granting a special use on a specific parcel (fireworks
                         stand at 107 McDonald Drive)
2024-48      8-5-2024    Granting a variance for gravel parking at 1920 Formosa
                         Road
                        
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Statutes
References to Illinois Revised Statutes
References to 1986 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                               Code Section
5, Act 70, § 1.01                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.02                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.03                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.04                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.05                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.07                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.08                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.09                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.10                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.11                      10.04
5, Act 70, § 1.12                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.15                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.16                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.17                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.20                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.24                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.28                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 1.29                      10.02
5, Act 70, § 2                         10.04
5, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.              31.02,
                                        31.40
5, Act 120, §§ 1.01 et seq.           31.39
5, Act 120, § 2.01                     31.03
5, Act 120, § 2.02                     31.04
5, Act 430, §§ 1-1 et seq.            38.040
5, Act 430, § 5-65                     38.074
5, Act 430, §§ 10-10 - 10-40          38.040
5, Act 430, § 15-10                    38.073
5, Act 430, § 50-5                     38.040
5, Act 430, § 70-5                     38.040
5, Act 430, § 70-5(a)                  38.040
5, Act 430, § 70-5(c)                  38.040
20, Act 40, § 1 et seq.                113.01
20, Act 3305                            131.04
30, Act 235, § 2                       32.085
30, Act 235, § 6                       32.086
30, Act 405, §§ 101 et seq.  (Repealed53.01
35, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.               134.16
35, Act 105, § 1                       36.022
35, Act 115, § 3                       36.021
                                        36.020;
35, Act 120, § 1                       36.023;
                                        36.999
35, Act 120, § 3                       36.020
35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.             36.070
35, Act 135, §§ 1 et seq              134.16
35, Act 145, § 1                       36.023;
                                        36.999
35, Act 630, §§ 1 et seq.             36.070
35, Act 635, §§ 1 et seq.             36.070
35, Act 635, § 10                      54.03
35, Act 636, §§ 5-1 et seq.           54.01,
                                        54.23
35, Act 636, § 5-7                     54.03
35, Act 636, § 5-45(a)                 54.01
35, Act 638, §§ 1 et seq.             36.070
35, Act 645, §§ 5-1 et seq.           54.04
40, Act 5, Art. 3                       35.074
40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.           35.070
40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 - 3-149           35.071;
                                        35.076
40, Act 5, § 3-107                     35.075
40, Act 5, § 3-108                     35.075
40, Act 5, § 3-113                     35.075
40, Act 5, § 3-118                     35.075
40, Act 5, § 3-119                     35.075
40, Act 5, § 7-101                     32.051
50, Act 840, §§ 1 et seq.             54.04
50, Act 840, § 10                      54.01,
                                        54.23
65                                      30.08
                                        10.02;
65, Act 5                               31.09;
                                        33.60
65, Act 5, § 1-1-2                     10.02
65, Act 5, § 1-1-2(5)                  30.01
65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1 et seq.           10.99
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                     10.99;
                                        157.01
65, Act 5, § 1-2-1.1                   10.99
65, Act 5, § 1-2-4                     10.23;
                                        31.09
65, Act 5, § 1-2-9                     131.34
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-15                 30.02
                                        32.007;
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25                 32.011;
                                        32.012
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30                 32.038;
                                        32.082
65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-35                 32.012
65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-5                  32.050
65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-10                 32.050;
                                        32.080
65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-15                 32.050
                                        32.050;
65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-5                  32.063;
                                        32.080
65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-40                 31.09
                                        31.09;
65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5                  Ch. 32;
                                        37.45
65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10(b)              32.064
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10                 Ch. 32
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-35                 Ch. 32
65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35-40 et seq.       Ch. 32
65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-35 through 3.1-35-8532.095
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-115                32.060
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-15                 31.33
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-25                 31.03;
                                        31.04
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-30                 31.05
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-40                 31.09
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-50                 31.07;
                                        31.09
65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-55                 31.34
65, Act 5, § 4-5-12                    31.08
65, Act 5, § 6-4-2                     31.06
65, Act 5, §§ 8-1-1 et seq.           30.03
65, Act 5, § 8-1-6                     31.09
65, Act 5, § 8-1-7                     31.09
65, Act 5, § 8-2-9                     31.09
65, Act 5, § 8-3-14                    36.023;
                                        36.999
65, Act 5, § 8-3-15                    36.023
65, Act 5, § 8-5-1                     30.03
65, Act 5, §§ 8-8-1 et seq.           30.06
65, Act 5, § 8-9-1                     31.09;
                                        37.46
65, Act 5, § 8-9-2                     37.46
65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                    36.020;
                                        36.024
65, Act 5, § 8-11-2                    36.024
65, Act 5, § 8-11-5                    36.021
65, Act 5, § 8-11-6                    36.022
65, Act 5, § 8-11-23                118.05
65, Act 5, § 9-2-4.5                   91.20;
                                        131.18
65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.        33.22
65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5                  33.21
65, Act 5, § 10-4-1                    Ch. 32
65, Act 5, §§ 11-1-1 et seq.          Ch. 31
65, Act 5, § 11-1-1                    130.21
65, Act 5, § 11-1-2                    Ch. 35
65, Act 5, §§ 11-9-1 et seq.          Ch. 50
65, Act 5, § 11-12-4                   33.60
65, Act 5, § 11-12-8                   153.020;
                                        153.142
65, Act 5, § 11-12-9                   153.003
65, Act 5, § 11-12-12                  157.01
65, Act 5, §§ 11-13-1 - 11-13-20      33.67
65, Act 5, § 11-13-6                154.156
65, Act 5, § 11-13-14                  31.09
65, Act 5, § 11-13-14.1                154.155,
                                        154.161
65, Act 5, § 11-13-14.1.C(1)           154.156
65, Act 5, § 11-14-3                   31.09
65, Act 5, § 11-15.1-3                 31.09
65, Act 5, § 11-20-3                   134.15
65, Act 5, § 11-20-5                   134.15
65, Act 5, § 11-24-1                   Ch. 110
65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                   157.01
65, Act 5, § 11-30-4                   Ch. 151
65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                   157.01
65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                   157.01
65, Act 5, § 11-37                     Ch. 151
65, Act 5, § 11-42-1                   Ch. 114
65, Act 5, § 11-42-2                116.061
65, Act 5, § 11-42-5                   Ch. 111;
                                        Ch. 114
65, Act 5, § 11-42-6                   Ch. 112
65, Act 5, § 11-42-8                   Ch. 152
65, Act 5, § 11-55-1                   Ch. 113
65, Act 5, § 11-74-6                   31.09
                                        36.002;
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3                   150.02 -
                                        150.05
65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.3-1 et seq.       Ch. 150
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-5                 150.05
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-5(4)              150.02
65, Act 5, § 11-74.3-6(b), (c), (d)    150.06
65, Act 5, §§ 11-74.4-1 et seq.       36.001
65, Act 5, § 11-76-1                   31.09
65, Act 5, § 11-76-2                   31.09
65, Act 5, § 11-76-4                   31.09;
                                        51.19
65, Act 5, § 11-76.1-1                 31.09
65, Act 5, §§ 11-80-1 et seq.         Ch. 92
65, Act 5, § 11-80-14                  155.04
65, Act 5, § 11-80-17                  155.04
65, Act 5, § 11-91-1                   31.09
70                                      156.006
70, Act 405, § 22                      153.142
70, Act 3105, § 3                      91.36
105, Act 5, § 10-20.5b                 134.15
105, Act 5, § 34-18.11                 134.15
105, Act 110, § 1                      134.15
210, Act 115, § 1                      154.056
210, Act 115, §§ 1 et seq.            Ch. 152
210, Act 115, § 9.3                    152.036
210, Act 117, § 1                      154.056
210, Act 120, § 2                      154.056
220, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.          36.070 ,
                                        54.02
220, Act 5, § 3-105                    92.107
220, Act 5, § 16-102                   92.107
220, Act 5, § 16-104                   36.024
220, Act 5, §§ 21-100 et seq.         54.05
220, Act 5, § 21-201(v)                54.02
220, Act 5, § 21-401                   54.02
220, Act 50, §§ 1 et seq.             54.16
220, Act 65, § 4                       54.05
225, Act 10, § 5.5                     134.15
225, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.            53.06;
                                        153.082
225, Act 440, §§ 1 - 16               155.01; 
                                        155.04
225, Act 460, §§ 1 et seq.            111.25
225, Act 605, § 1                      90.25
230, Act 40, §§ 1 et seq.             116.017;
                                        154.005
                                        32.039;
235, Act 5, §§ 1-1 et seq.            Ch. 116;
                                        116.029
235, Act 5, § 1-1                      116.001 -
                                        116.003
235, Act 5, § 1-3.24                   116.001
235, Act 5, § 3-12                     116.999
235, Act 5, § 4-1                      116.999
235, Act 5, § 4-2                      116.002
                                        116.015;
235, Act 5, § 4-4                      116.048;
                                        116.999
235, Act 5, § 6-11                     116.042
235, Act 5, § 6-16                     116.080
235, Act 5, § 6-17                     116.067
                                        116.044;
235, Act 5, § 7-5                      116.047;
                                        116.048;
                                        116.999
235, Act 5, § 7-7                      116.047
235, Act 5, § 7-9                      116.049;
                                        116.999
235, Act 5, § 10-2                     116.045;
                                        116.046
235, Act 5, § 10-3                     116.045;
                                        116.046
410, Act 75, § 0.01                    134.15
410, Act 85, § 1                       134.15
410, Act 85, §§ 1 et seq.             134.25
410, Act 625, § 3.6                    91.80
410, Act 625, § 4                      91.80
415                                     156.006
415, Act 5, §§ 5, 22, and 27          154.052
415, Act 5, § 12                       156.047
415, Act 5, § 20                       154.052
415, Act 105, § 1                      Ch. 50
415, Act 105, § 3                      50.001
430, Act 150, § 1                      134.01
505                                     156.006
510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.              90.51
510, Act 5, § 1                        90.25
510, Act 5, § 15(a)(3)                 90.25
510, Act 5, § 15.1                     90.52
510, Act 55, § 1                       90.25
510, Act 60, § 0.01                    90.25
510, Act 70, §§ 1 et seq.             Ch. 90
605, Act 5, §§ 1-101 et seq.          54.02
615                                     156.006
625                                     70.01
625, Act 5, § 1-101.05                 50.001
625, Act 5, § 1-182                    72.29
625, Act 5, § 1-188                    10.02
625, Act 5, § 1-209                    72.29
625, Act 5, § 1-217                    72.29
625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 et seq.          Ch. 70
625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 - 4-214          70.44
625, Act 5, § 6-101                    70.60
625, Act 5, § 6-303                    70.60
625, Act 5, §§ 7-601 et seq.          70.81
625, Act 5, § 11-204.1                 70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-208.3(b)(4)           70.63
625, Act 5, § 11-401                   70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-402                   70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-403                   70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-404                   70.60
625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 through 11-502  70.81
625, Act 5, § 11-501                   70.60
625, Act 5, §§ 11-501 et seq.         Ch. 70
625, Act 5, § 11-503                   70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-506                   70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-601                   71.20
625, Act 5, § 11-601.5                 70.60
625, Act 5, § 11-605                   71.25
625, Act 5, § 11-606                   71.22
625, Act 5, § 12-709                   70.81
625, Act 5, §§ 13 et seq.             70.60
625, Act 5, § 18c-7201                 92.107
625, Act 5, § 20-204                   70.01
                                        134.40,
                                        134.41,
720, Act 5                              134.42,
                                        134.43,
                                        134.44
720, Act 5, § 11-6                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 11-26                    70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-2                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-3.05                  70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-4.2  (Repealed)       70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-4.3  (Repealed)       70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-4.6  (Repealed)       70.60
720, Act 5, § 12-7.3                   70.60
720, Act 5, § 16A-3  (Repealed)        70.60
720, Act 5, § 18-1                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 18-2                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 19-1                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 19-3                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 20-1                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 20-1.1                   70.60
720, Act 5, § 20-2                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 21-1                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 24-1                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 24-1.5                   70.60
720, Act 5, § 24-2                     70.60
720, Act 5, § 24-3.1                   70.60
720, Act 5, § 24-3.3                   70.60
720, Act 5, § 25-1                     132.03
720, Act 5, § 25-1(a)(1)               70.60
720, Act 5, § 25-1(d)                  70.60
720, Act 5, § 28-1(a)(3) - (a)(10)     116.029
720, Act 5, § 28-2(b)                  113.11
720, Act 5, § 28-3                     116.029
720, Act 5, § 31-1                     35.001
720, Act 5, §§ 36-1 et seq.           70.62
                                        Ch. 133;
720, Act 550 §§ 1 et seq.             133.35 -
                                        133.38
720, Act 550, § 3                      133.20
720, Act 550, § 4                      70.60
720, Act 550, § 5                      70.60
720, Act 550, § 5.1                    70.60
720, Act 550, § 5.2                    70.60
720, Act 550, § 8                      70.60
720, Act 550, § 12                     133.40
720, Act 570, § 12                     133.40
720, Act 570, § 100                    133.35 -
                                        133.38
720, Act 570, § 401                    70.60
720, Act 570, § 401.1                  70.60
720, Act 570, § 402(a), (b), or (c)    70.60
720, Act 570, § 505                    133.40
720, Act 600                            133.37,
                                        133.38
720, Act 600, § 2(d)                   133.35
720, Act 600, § 3.5                    70.60
720, Act 675, § 0.01                   134.15
720, Act 680, § 1  (Repealed)          134.15
720, Act 685, § 1                      134.15
720, Act 685, §§ 1 et seq.            134.25
725, Act 150, §§ 1 et seq.            70.62
                                        134.41,
730, Act 150                         134.42,
                                        134.43,
                                        134.44
730, Act 152, §§ 101 et seq.          134.99
735, Act 5, § 3-101 et seq.         154.161
740, Act 174, § 15(a)                  38.073
740, Act 174, § 15(b)                  38.073
745, Act 10, § 1-101                   153.006
765, Act 120, § 1                      33.82
765, Act 205, § 1                      153.008; 
                                        154.005
765, Act 205, §§ 1 et seq.            33.60;
                                        153.020
765, Act 205, §§ 1(a) et seq.         153.025
                                        153.020;
765, Act 205, § 1(b)                   153.142;
                                        153.185
765, Act 205, § 2                      153.187
775, Act 5, § 6-101                    38.073
805, Act 5, §§ 1.01 et seq.           116.032
820, Act 130, §§ 1 et seq.            38.055
820, Act 305                            54.08
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS REVISED STATUTES
 
Il. Rev. Stat. Cite           Code Section
Ch. 6, §§ 5-1 et seq.       10.18
Ch. 56-1/2, §§ 1106 et seq. Ch. 133
Ch. 108-1/2, §§ 3-101 - 3-1435.076
 
REFERENCES TO 1986 CODE
1986 Code 2011 Code
1986 Code 2011 Code
1-2       10.02
1-4       10.99
1-5       10.18
1-6       10.19
1-8       10.09
1-9       10.20
1-10      10.21
1-13      10.22
1-15      10.23
2-1       11.01
2-2       30.01
2-2.1     30.02
2-3       11.02
2-4       30.03
2-6       30.04;
          30.05
2-7       30.06
2-8       30.07
2-10      30.08
2-11      30.09
2-21      32.001
2-22      32.002
2-23      32.003
2-24      32.004
2-25      32.005
2-26      32.006
2-27      32.007
2-28      32.008
2-29      32.009
2-30      32.010
2-31      32.011
2-32      32.012
2-33      32.013
2-34      32.014
2-35      32.015
2-36      32.016
2-37      32.125
2-37.2    32.127
2-38      32.128
2-51      32.030
2-52      32.031
2-53      32.032
2-54      32.033
2-55      32.034
2-56      32.035
2-57      32.036
2-58      32.037
2-59      32.038
2-60      32.039
2-76      31.01
2-77      31.02
2-78      31.03
2-79      31.04
2-80      31.05
2-81      31.06
2-82      31.07
2-83      31.08
2-83.1    31.09
2-84      31.10
2-85      31.11
2-86      31.12
2-87      31.13
2-89      31.30
2-90      31.31
2-91      31.32
2-92      31.33
2-93      31.34
2-94      31.35
2-96      31.37
2-97      31.38
2-98      31.39
2-111     32.050
2-111.1   32.051
2-112     32.052
2-113     32.053
2-114     32.054
2-115     32.055
2-116     32.056
2-117     32.057
2-118     32.058
2-119     32.059
2-120     32.060
2-121     32.061
2-122     32.062
2-123     32.063
2-136     32.080
2-136.1   32.081
2-137     32.082
2-138     32.083
2-139     32.084
2-140.1   32.085
2-140.2   32.086
2-140.3   32.087
2-141     32.088
2-142     32.089
2-143     32.090
2-144     32.091
2-145     32.092
2-146     32.093
2-147     32.094
2-148     32.095
2-154     32.064
2-161     32.110
2-162     32.111
2-163     32.112
2-164     32.113
2-165     32.114
2-166     32.115
2-167     32.116
2-191     38.055
2-192     38.056
2-193     38.057
2-194     38.058
2-271     33.15
2-272     33.16
2-273     33.17
2-274     33.18
2-275     33.19
2-276     33.20
2-277     33.21
2-278     33.22
2-279     33.23
2-280     33.40
2-281     33.41
2-282     33.42
2-283     33.43
2-284     33.44
2-285     33.45
2-286     33.46
2-300     32.129
2-301     32.129
2-302     32.129
2-303     32.129
2-305     32.130
2-306     32.130
2-307     32.130
2-313     38.040
2-327     37.15
2-328     37.16
2-329     37.17
2-330     37.18
2-331     37.19
2-332     37.20
2-333     37.21
2-334     37.22
2-335     37.23
2-336     37.24
2-337     37.25
2-338     37.26
2-339     37.27
2-340     37.28
2-341     37.29
2-342     37.30
2-343     37.31
3-1       91.65
3-2       91.66
3-3       91.67
3-4       91.68
3-5       91.69
4-1       116.001
4-2       116.002
4-3       116.003
4-5       116.004
4-21      116.015
4-22      116.016
4-23      116.017
4-25      116.019
4-26      116.020
4-27      116.021
4-28      116.022
4-29      116.023
4-30      116.024
4-31      116.025
4-32      116.026
4-33      116.027
4-34      116.028
4-35      116.029
4-36      116.030
4-36.1    116.031
4-37      116.032
4-38      116.033
4-39      116.034
4-40      116.035
4-41      116.036
4-42      116.037
4-43      116.038
4-44      116.039
4-45      116.040
4-46      116.041
4-47      116.042
4-48      116.043
4-49      116.044
4-50      116.045
4-51      116.046
4-52      116.047
4-53      116.048
4-54      116.049
4-55      116.999
4-66      116.060
4-67      116.061
4-69      116.062
4-70      116.063
4-71      116.064
4-72      116.065
4-73      116.066
4-74      116.067
4-75      116.068
4-86      116.080
4-87      116.081
4-88      116.082
4-89      116.083
4-90      116.084
4-91      116.085
4-92      116.086
4-93      116.087
5-36      114.01
5-37      114.02
5-38      114.03
5-51      114.15
5-52      114.16
5-53      114.17
5-54      114.18
5-55      114.19
5-56      114.20
5-57      114.21
5-58      114.22
5-66      115.01
5-67      115.02
5-68      115.03
5-69      115.04
5-70      115.05
5-71      115.06
5-72      115.07
5-73      115.08
5-81      114.35
5-82      114.36
5-83      114.37
5-84      114.38
5-85      114.39
5-96      114.50
5-97      114.51
5-98      114.52
5-99      114.53
5-100     114.54
5-101     114.55
5-102     114.56
5-103     114.57
5-104     114.58
6-1       90.01
6-2       90.02
6-3       90.03
6-4       90.04
6-5       90.05
6-6       90.06
6-7       90.07
6-8       90.08
6-9       90.09
6-10      90.10
6-11      90.11
6-26      90.25
6-27      90.26
6-28      90.27
6-29      90.28
6-30      90.29
6-31      90.30
6-32      90.31
6-33      90.32
6-34      90.33
6-35      90.34
6-36      90.35
6-51      90.36
6-56      90.54
6.5-1     37.45
6.5-2     37.46
6.5-3     37.47
7-1       151.002
7-2       151.003
7-3       151.004
7-4       151.005
7-6       151.006
7-26      151.020;
          151.999
7-26.1    151.021
7-28      151.022
7-28.1    151.023
7-29      151.024
7-30      151.025
7-31      151.026
7-46      151.040
7-47      151.041
7-61      151.130
7-86      151.055
7-87      151.056
7-101     151.145
7-102     151.146
7-103     151.147
7-104     151.148
7-105     151.149
7-106     151.150
7-107     151.151
7-108     151.152
7-110     151.153
7-111     151.999
7-112     151.154
7-127     151.070
7-128     151.071
7-143     151.170
7-144     151.171
7-145     151.172
7-146     151.173
7-147     151.174
7-148     151.175
7-149     151.176
7-151     151.177
7-152     151.178
7-153     151.179
7-154     151.180
7-155     151.181
7-156     151.182
7-157     151.183
7-158     151.999
7-159     151.184
11-1      50.001
11-2      50.002
11-3      50.003
11-4      50.004
11-5      50.005
11-6      50.007
11-7      50.008
11-8      50.009
11-9      50.010
11-81     50.025;
          50.999
11-82     50.026
11-83     50.027
11-84     50.028
11-85     50.029
11-86     50.999
11-87     50.030
11-100    50.045
11-101    50.046
11-102    50.047
11-103    50.048
11-104    50.049
11-105    50.999
12-46     110.01
12-47     110.02
12-48     110.03
12-49     110.04
12-50     110.05
12-51     110.06
12-52     110.07
12-66     111.01
12-67     111.06
12-68     111.07
12-69     111.08
12-70     111.09
12-71     111.10
12-72     111.11
12-73     111.12
12-75     111.14
12-76     111.15
12-78     111.16
12-102    111.25;
          111.26
12-103    111.27
12-104    111.28
12-105    111.29
13-1      152.001
13-2      152.002
13-3      152.003
13-4      152.004
13-5      152.005
13-6      152.015
13-7      152.016
13-8      152.017
13-9      152.018
13-10     152.019
13-11     152.020
13-12     152.021
13-13     152.022
13-14     152.023
13-15     152.035
13-16     152.036
13-17     152.037
13-18     152.038
13-19     152.039
13-20     152.040
13-21     152.041
13-22     152.042
13-23     152.043
13-24     152.044
13-25     152.045
13-26     152.055
13-27     152.056
13-28     152.057
13-29     152.058
13-30     152.059
13-31     152.060
13-32     152.061
13-46     152.075
13-47     152.076
13-48     152.077
13-49     152.078
13-50     152.079
13-51     152.080
13-66     152.095
13-67     152.096
13-68     152.097
13-69     152.098
13-86     152.115
13-87     152.116
13-101    152.117
13-102    152.118
14-1      70.01
14-2      70.02
14-16     71.01
14-17     71.02
14-18     71.03;
          Ch. 73, Sch. I
14-19     71.04;
          Ch. 73, Sch. II
14-20     71.07
14-21     71.08
14-22     71.09;
          Ch. 73, Sch. III
14-23     Ch. 73, Sch. III
14-24     Ch. 73, Sch. III
14-31     71.20
14-32     71.21
14-33     71.22
14-34     71.23
14-35     71.24
14-36     71.25;
          Ch. 73, Sch. IV
14-37     71.25
14-51     72.01
14-52     71.05;
          Ch. 73, Sch. IV
14-53     71.06
14-54     72.02;
          Ch. 74, Sch. I
14-55     72.03
14-56     72.04
14-66     72.20
14-67     72.21
14-68     72.22
14-69     72.23;
          Ch. 74, Sch. II
          72.24;
14-70     72.99;
          Ch. 74, Sch. III
14-70.1   72.25;
          72.99
14-71     72.26
14-72     72.27
14-73     72.28
14-74     72.29
14-75     72.30
14-76     72.31
14-77     72.32
14-78     72.33
14-79     72.34
14-80     Ch. 74, Sch. II;
          Ch. 74, Sch. III
14-91     70.15
14-92     70.16
14-93     70.17
14-94     70.18
14-95     70.19
14-96     70.20
14-97     70.21
14-98     70.22
14-99     70.99
14-146    70.40
14-147    70.41
14-148    70.42
14-149    70.43
14-150    70.44
15-1      131.01
15-2      130.01
15-3      130.02
15-4      130.20
15-5      130.21
15-6      131.02
15-8      130.03
15-9      130.04
15-10     134.01
15-11     134.02
15-12     132.01
15-13     132.02
15-14     132.03
15-15     131.03
15-16     131.33
15-26     131.15
15-27     131.16
15-28     131.17
15-29     131.18
15-41     132.15
15-42     132.16
15-43     132.17
15-44     132.18
15-45     132.19
15-61     132.35
15-62     132.36
15-63     132.37
15-76     133.20
15-77     133.21
15-91     133.35
15-92     133.36
15-93     133.37
15-94     133.38
15-95     133.39
15-96     133.40
15-101    131.30
15-102    131.31
15-103    131.32
15-104    131.99
15-110    133.01
15-111    133.02
15-112    133.03
15-113    133.04
15-114    133.05
15-115    133.06
15-116    133.07
15-117    133.08
15-118    133.09
15-120    134.15
15-121    134.16
15-122    134.17
15-122.1  134.18
15-122.2  134.19
15-122.3  134.20
15-122.4  134.21
15-122.5  134.22
15-122.6  134.23
15-122.7  134.24
15-123    134.25
15-124    134.99
16-1      150.20
16-16     33.60
16-17     33.61
16-18     33.62
16-19     33.63
16-20     33.64
16-21     33.65
16-22     33.66
16-23     33.67
17-1      35.001
17-16     35.015
17-17     35.016
17-18     35.017
17-19     35.018
17-20     35.019
17-21     35.020
17-22     35.021
17-31     35.035
17-32     35.036
17-33     35.037
17-34     35.038
17-35     35.039
17-36     35.040
17-51     35.055
17-52     35.056
17-53     35.057
17-54     35.058
17-55     35.059
17-71     35.090
17-72     35.091
17-73     35.092
17-86     35.070
17-87     35.071
17-88     35.072
17-89     35.073
17-90     35.074
17-91     35.075
17-92     35.076
17-93     35.076
17-94     35.076
18-1      92.001
18-2      92.002
18-4      92.004
18-5      92.005
18-6      92.006
18-8      92.008
18-9      92.009
18-10     92.010
18-11     92.011;
          92.999
18-26     92.025
18-27     92.026
18-28     92.027
18-29     92.028
18-46     92.040
18-47     92.041
18-48     92.042
18-86     92.055
18-87     92.055
18-88     92.055
18-89     92.055
18-90     92.055
18-91     92.055
18-101    92.056
18-102    92.056
18-103    92.056
18-104    92.056
18-105    92.056
18-106    92.056
18-107    92.056
18-108    92.056
18-116    92.057
18-131    92.070
18-132    92.071
18-133    92.072
18-181    92.085
18-182    92.086
18-183    92.087
18-184    92.088
18-185    92.089
18-186    92.090
18-187    92.091
18-188    92.092
18-189    92.093
19-16     36.020
19-17     36.020
19-18     36.020
19-31     36.021
19-32     36.021
19-33     36.021
19-46     36.022
19-47     36.022
19-61     36.023
19-62     36.023
19-63     36.023
19-64     36.023
19-65     36.023
19-66     36.023
19-67     36.023;
          36.999
19-81     36.024
19-82     36.024
19-83     36.024
19-84     36.024
19-85     36.024
19-86     36.024
19-87     36.024
19-88     36.024;
          36.999
19-89     36.024
19-90     36.024
19-91     36.040
19-92     36.041
19-93     36.042
19-94     36.043
19-95     36.044
19-96     36.045
19-97     36.046
19-98     36.047
19-99     36.048
19-100    36.049
19-101    36.050
19-102    36.051
19-103    36.052
19-104    36.053
19-105    36.054
19-106    36.055
19-107    36.056
19-108    36.057
19-109    36.070
19-110    36.071
19-111    36.072
19-112    36.073
19-113    36.074
19-114    36.075
20-1      51.01
20-2      51.02
20-16     51.15
20-17     51.16
20-18     51.17
20-19     51.18
20-31     52.001
20-32     52.002
20-33     52.003
20-34     52.004
20-35     52.005
20-36     52.006
20-37     52.007
20-38     52.008
20-39     52.011
20-41     52.009
20-42     52.010
20-43     52.012
20-44     52.013
20-45     52.014
20-46     52.015
20-46.1   52.016
20-47     52.017
20-48     52.018
20-52     52.031
20-53     52.032
20-54     52.033
20-55     52.034
20-56     52.035
20-57     52.036;
          52.999
20-61     52.050
20-62     52.051
20-63     52.052
20-64     52.053
20-65     52.054;
          52.055
20-67     52.056
20-76     52.070
20-77     52.071
20-78     52.072
20-79     52.073
20-80     52.074
20-81     52.075
20-82     52.076
20-83     52.077
20-84     52.078
20-85     52.079
20-86     52.080
20-87     52.081
20-88     52.082
20-89     52.083
20-90     52.084
20-91     52.085
20-92     52.086
20-111    52.120
20-112    52.121
20-113    52.122
20-121    52.135
20-122    52.136
20-123    52.137
20-124    52.138
20-125    52.139
20-126    52.140
20-127    52.141
20-128    52.142
20-136    53.01
20-137    53.02
20-138    53.03
20-139    53.04;
          53.99
20-140    53.05
20-141    53.06
20-142    53.07
20-143    53.08
20-144    53.09
20-145    53.10
20-146    53.99
21-1      91.01
21-16     91.15
21-17     91.16
21-18     91.17
21-19     91.18
21-20     91.19
21-21     91.20
21-31     91.35
21-32     91.36
21-33     91.37
21-34     91.38
21-41     91.50
21-42     91.51
21-43     91.52
21-44     91.53
22-16     112.01
22-17     112.02
22-18     112.03
22-19     112.04
22-20     112.05
22-21     112.06
22-22     112.07
22-23     112.08
22-24     112.09
22-25     112.10
22-26     112.11
22-27     112.12
22-28     112.13
22-29     112.14
22-30     112.15
22-31     112.16
22-32     112.17
22-41     112.30
22-42     112.31
22-43     112.32
22-44     112.33
22-45     112.34
22-46     112.35
22-47     112.36
22-48     112.37
22-49     112.38
22-66     112.50
22-67     112.51
22-68     112.52
22-69     112.53
22-70     112.54
22-71     112.55
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2010-10  - -         34.01
05       5-6-2002    TSO VII
2015-06  4-20-2015   TSO VI
2015-11  6-15-2015   TSO X
2015-12  7-20-2015   TSO VII
2015-14  7-20-2015   TSO VI
2015-15  8-3-2015    TSO VI
2015-16  8-17-2015   TSO VI
2015-18  10-19-2015  TSO VII
2016-02  1-4-2016    TSO VII
2016-05  2-19-2016   TSO VII
2016-06  3-7-2016    TSO VI
2016-07  3-7-2016    TSO VI
2016-13  4-18-2016   TSO VII
2016-17  6-6-2016    TSO VI
2016-19  8-1-2016    TSO VI
2016-28  12-5-2016   TSO VII
2016-29  12-19-2016  32.017
2017-02  2-6-2017    TSO VII
2017-14  11-6-2017   TSO VII
2018-03  3-19-2018   TSO VII
2018-09  10-1-2018   TSO VII
2019-01  1-14-2019   TSO VII
2019-03  2-19-2019   TSO VII
2019-11  7-1-2019    TSO X
2019-12  7-1-2019    TSO X
2019-18  11-4-2019   TSO VII
2020-05  3-2-2020    TSO VII
2020-06  3-16-2020   31.41
2020-14  7-20-2020   TSO VI
2020-17  8-3-2020    TSO VI
2020-21  11-16-2020  TSO VII
2021-04  4-5-2021    TSO VII
2021-06  5-17-2021   TSO VII
2021-07  6-7-2021    TSO VI
2021-08  6-7-2021    TSO VI
2021-09  6-21-2021   TSO VI
2021-10  6-21-2021   TSO VI
2021-11  6-21-2021   TSO VI
2021-12  6-21-2021   TSO VII
2021-15  8-2-2021    TSO VII
2021-16  8-2-2021    TSO VII
2021-17  8-2-2021    TSO VI
2021-18  9-7-2021    TSO VI
2021-19  9-7-2021    TSO VII
2021-20  9-7-2021    TSO VII
2021-21  9-7-2021    TSO VII
2021-24  9-20-2021   TSO VII
2021-25  9-20-2021   TSO VII
2021-30  12-6-2021   TSO VI
2021-34  12-20-2021  TSO VII
2022-02  1-18-2022   TSO VII
2022-03  1-18-2022   TSO VII
2022-04  1-18-2022   TSO VII
2022-05  1-18-2022   TSO VII
2022-07  1-18-2022   TSO VI
2022-08  1-18-2022   TSO VI
2022-14  3-21-2022   TSO IV
2022-15  3-21-2022   TSO IV
2022-16  3-21-2022   TSO IV
2022-17  4-4-2022    TSO VI
2022-22  4-18-2022   TSO VI
2022-23  4-18-2022   TSO VI
2022-25  5-16-2022   TSO VII
2022-28  6-20-2022   150.07
2022-29  7-5-2022    TSO VII
2022-30  8-15-2022   TSO VII
2022-31  8-15-2022   TSO VII
2022-35  9-19-2022   TSO VII
2022-36  9-19-2022   TSO VII
2022-37  9-19-2022   TSO VII
2022-38  10-17-2022  TSO VII
2022-42  10-17-2022  TSO X
2022-44  11-7-2022   TSO VII
2022-45  11-21-2022  TSO VII
2022-46  12-5-2022   TSO VI
2023-01  1-17-2023   TSO VI
2023-03  1-17-2023   TSO VI
2023-04  1-17-2023   TSO VI
2023-05  1-17-2023   TSO VII
2023-09  2-6-2023    TSO IV
2023-11  2-6-2023    TSO VII
2023-12  2-6-2023    TSO VII
2023-13  2-6-2023    TSO VII
2023-15  2-6-2023    TSO VII
2023-16  2-21-2023   TSO VI
2023-21  4-17-2023   TSO VII
2023-24  5-1-2023    TSO VII
2023-25  5-15-2023   TSO VII
2023-26  5-15-2023   TSO VII
2023-31  8-7-2023    TSO VII
2023-32  8-7-2023    TSO VII
2023-34  8-21-2023   TSO VII
2023-35  9-18-2023   TSO VI
2023-36  9-18-2023   TSO VI
2023-39  10-2-2023   TSO IV
2023-40  10-2-2023   TSO IV
2023-43  10-2-2023   TSO IV
2023-44  10-2-2023   TSO IV
2023-46  11-6-2023   TSO VII
2023-47  11-20-2023  TSO VII
2024-05  1-16-2024   TSO VI
2024-07  3-18-2024   TSO VII
2024-08  3-18-2024   TSO VII
2024-10  3-18-2024   TSO VII
2024-11  4-1-2024    TSO VII
2024-15  5-20-2024   TSO VII
2024-16  5-20-2024   TSO VII
2024-17  5-20-2024   TSO VII
2024-18  6-17-2024   TSO VII
2024-19  7-1-2024    TSO VII
2024-20  7-1-2024    TSO VII
2024-23  7-15-2024   TSO VII
2024-24  8-5-2024    TSO VI
2024-25  8-5-2024    TSO VII
2024-26  8-5-2024    TSO IV
2024-27  8-5-2024    TSO IV
2024-28  8-5-2024    TSO VII
2024-29  7-15-2024   TSO IV
2024-30  7-15-2024   TSO IV
2024-31  8-5-2024    TSO VI
2024-32  8-5-2024    TSO VII
2024-33  9-3-2024    TSO VI
2024-34  9-3-2024    TSO IV
2024-39  10-21-2024  TSO VII
2024-40  10-21-2024  TSO VII
2024-42  11-4-2024   TSO IV
2024-44  12-16-2024  TSO VII
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.             Date Passed Code Section
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. I;
—                  - -         Ch. 73, Sch. IV;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
1987-17              - -         151.023
1996-12              - -         TSO X
2004-21              - -         TSO X
2004-24              - -         TSO X
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. III;
2010-05              - -         Ch. 73, Sch. V;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2010-10              - -         34.01
1978-12              11-20-1978  71.25;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                                 72.24;
1978-14              11-20-1978  72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
                                 72.24;
1979-4               5-3-1979    72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
1979-9               9-17-1979   131.01
1980-5               6-16-1980   38.055 -
                                 38.058
1980-11              9-2-1980    116.060
1980-16              12-15-1980  133.20;
                                 133.21
1981-1               1-19-1981   116.038
                                 72.29;
1981-4               2-16-1981   72.31;
                                 72.32
1981-6               3-16-1981   72.29
1981-11              7-6-1981    91.65
                                 70.15 -
1981-9               7-20-1981   70.22;
                                 70.99
1981-14              8-3-1981    32.016
1981-15              8-3-1981    71.20
1981-16              8-17-1981   116.080
1981-17              8-17-1981   132.01
1981-20              9-8-1981    134.02
1981-21              9-8-1981    35.001
1982-1               2-1-1982    72.26
1982-2               2-1-1982    71.01
1982-3               6-21-1982   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1981-2               10-4-1982   11.02
1982-8               10-4-1982   11.02
1982-9               10-18-1982  35.090 -
                                 35.092
1982-10              11-15-1982  52.142;
                                 112.53
1983-2               3-7-1983    111.09 -
                                 111.11
1983-3               6-6-1983    110.01 -
                                 110.07
1983-4               6-6-1983    116.017;
                                 116.023
                                 72.24;
1983-7               11-21-1983  72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
                                 112.01 -
1984-4               7-2-1984    112.17;
                                 112.31 -
                                 112.38
1984-10              10-15-1984  Ch. 74, Sch. II
1985-1               1-21-1985   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1985-3               1-21-1985   52.015;
                                 52.016
                                 31.32;
1985-2               1-27-1985   32.051;
                                 32.081
1985-15              6-3-1985    32.011
                                 114.01 -
                                 114.03;
                                 114.15 -
                                 114.22;
1985-17              6-17-1985   114.35 -
                                 114.39;
                                 114.50 -
                                 114.58,
                                 115.01 -
                                 115.08
1985-18              6-17-1985   71.21
1985-19              7-1-1985    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1985-22              8-5-1985    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1985-24              8-19-1985   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1985-25              10-7-1985   Ch. 74, Sch. II
                                 131.30 -
1985-26              11-4-1985   131.32;
                                 131.99
1986-1               1-20-1986   116.028;
                                 131.15
1986-6               5-5-1986    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1986-7               5-19-1986   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1986-15              7-21-1986   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1986-31              10-20-1986  33.15 -
                                 33.23
1986-32              10-20-1986  35.070 -
                                 35.076
1986-34              11-3-1986   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1986-35              11-3-1986   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1986-37              11-17-1986  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1987-1               1-19-1987   110.02
1987-6               5-18-1987   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1987-7               5-18-1987   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1987-10              6-15-1987   38.055 -
                                 38.058
1987-12              6-15-1987   72.34
1987-15              7-20-1987   52.077
1987-21              9-8-1987    133.01 -
                                 133.09
1987-22              10-13-1987  33.16
1987-27              12-7-1987   33.61
1988-7               4-4-1988    30.08
1988-10              4-4-1988    35.090
1988-11              4-4-1988    72.29
1988-13              5-2-1988    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1988-14              5-16-1988   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1988-19              7-5-1988    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1988-21              7-5-1988    36.023;
                                 36.999
1988-25              8-15-1988   30.09
1988-36              12-19-1988  150.20
1989-01              1-3-1989    134.02
1989-05              1-16-1989   32.081
1989-04              1-24-1989   32.051
1989-06              1-24-1989   31.32
1989-07              2-6-1989    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1989-08              2-20-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-09              2-20-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-10              2-20-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-12              2-20-1989   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1989-13              2-20-1989   72.29
1989-14              3-6-1989    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-15              3-6-1989    92.011;
                                 92.999
1989-17              4-17-1989   72.25;
                                 72.99
1989-21              6-19-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-22              6-19-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1989-36              9-18-1989   111.25 -
                                 111.29
1989-41              11-6-1989   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1990-5               3-5-1990    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1990-6               3-5-1990    71.07
                                 151.002 -
                                 151.006;
                                 151.020 -
                                 151.022;
1990-08A             4-2-1990    151.024 -
                                 151.026;
                                 151.130;
                                 151.145 -
                                 151.154;
                                 151.999
1990-16              9-4-1990    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1990-19              10-1-1990   52.081
1990-27              12-17-1990  52.084 -
                                 52.086
1991-1               1-21-1991   151.024
                                 31.09;
1991-02              2-4-1991    32.128;
                                 92.056
1991-03              2-18-1991   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1991-05              3-4-1991    131.33
1991-09              5-20-1991   38.055 -
                                 38.058
1991-14              7-15-1991   151.021
1991-18              9-16-1991   151.021
1991-19              10-7-1991   10.99
1991-23              10-21-1991  Ch. 74, Sch. II
1991-28              12-2-1991   36.024
1992-02              1-20-1992   131.16
1992-09              3-16-1992   151.021
1992-10              4-6-1992    36.024
1992-13              5-9-1992    90.02;
                                 90.06
1992-19              6-1-1992    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1992-20              6-1-1992    92.008
1992-21              6-15-1992   37.45 -
                                 37.47
1992-25              8-17-1992   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1992-26              8-17-1992   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1992-29              9-8-1992    151.021
1992-30              10-5-1992   90.08
1993-01              1-18-1993   31.32
1993-02              1-18-1993   31.32
1993-03              1-18-1993   32.081
1993-04              1-18-1993   32.051
1993-07              4-5-1993    116.060
1993-13              7-6-1993    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1993-24              9-20-1993   30.05
1993-25              10-4-1993   151.040
1993-26              10-4-1993   151.055
1993-27              10-4-1993   151.070;
                                 151.071
                                 151.020;
1993-28              10-4-1993   151.021;
                                 151.999
1994-03              2-21-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1994-08              5-2-1994    36.024
1994-09              5-16-1994   90.33
1994-10              6-6-1994    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1994-15              6-20-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1994-16              6-20-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1994-17              6-20-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1994-25              8-16-1994   37.45;
                                 37.46
                                 116.001 -
                                 116.003;
                                 116.004;
                                 116.015;
                                 116.017 -
                                 116.020;
                                 116.022;
                                 116.023;
                                 116.026;
1994-28              9-19-1994   116.029 -
                                 116.032;
                                 116.035;
                                 116.037;
                                 116.044 -
                                 116.049;
                                 116.060;
                                 116.066 -
                                 116.068;
                                 116.999
1994-29              9-19-1994   32.128
                                 51.17;
                                 51.18;
1994-33              11-9-1994   52.030 -
                                 52.036;
                                 52.999
1995-01              1-4-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1995-02              1-4-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1995-04              2-17-1995   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1995-05              2-20-1995   31.33
1995-06              2-20-1995   116.025;
                                 116.029
1995-09              3-6-1995    31.13
1995-12              3-6-1995    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1995-13              5-1-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1995-18              5-15-1995   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 31.13;
                                 32.003;
                                 32.004;
                                 32.011;
                                 32.033;
                                 32.125,
                                 32.127,
                                 32.128;
                                 35.035;
                                 51.15;
                                 51.16;
                                 52.006;
                                 52.035;
                                 52.036;
1995-16              5-16-1995   52.051;
                                 52.052;
                                 52.080;
                                 52.086;
                                 52.999;
                                 71.25;
                                 72.20;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. IV;
                                 92.005;
                                 92.009;
                                 92.025 -
                                 92.027;
                                 92.055;
                                 92.056;
                                 92.087;
                                 151.005
1995-19              6-20-1995   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1996-01              1-2-1996    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1996-02              2-21-1996   Ch. 74, Sch. II
                                 90.25;
                                 90.27;
1996-08              4-1-1996    90.29 -
                                 90.32;
                                 90.34
1996-07              4-2-1996    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1996-10              4-15-1996   90.02
1996-09              4-16-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 31.32;
1996-32              10-7-1996   32.051;
                                 32.081
                                 134.15 -
1996-36              11-4-1996   134.25;
                                 134.99
1996-37              11-4-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 151.020;
1997-08              3-17-1997   151.021;
                                 151.999
1997-09              3-17-1997   151.070;
                                 151.071
1997-10              3-18-1997   151.055
1997-11              4-7-1997    36.023;
                                 36.999
1997-12              4-7-1997    151.041
1997-14              4-21-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1997-15              4-21-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 53.01 -
1997-17              5-5-1997    53.10;
                                 53.99
                                 31.13;
1997-19              5-5-1997    31.33;
                                 90.07;
                                 92.028
1997-20              5-5-1997    33.40 -
                                 33.46
1997-26              6-2-1997    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1997-35              7-21-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1997-36              7-21-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1997-48              10-9-1997   90.36,
                                 90.54
1997-56              11-17-1997  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1998-07              4-6-1998    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 50.001 -
                                 50.005;
                                 50.007 -
                                 50.010;
1998-08              4-20-1998   50.025 -
                                 50.030;
                                 50.045 -
                                 50.049;
                                 50.999
1998-09              4-20-1998   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1998-17              6-1-1998    Ch. 73, Sch. VI;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
1998-22              7-6-1998    32.064
1998-24              8-17-1998   32.033;
                                 32.129
1998-31              11-16-1998  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1998-32              12-7-1998   151.021
                                 72.24;
1998-36              12-21-1998  72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
1999-01              1-4-1999    36.024;
                                 36.999
1999-02              - -         Ch. 37, App. A
                                 91.01;
                                 91.15 -
                                 91.19;
1999-12              4-5-1999    91.35 -
                                 91.38;
                                 91.50 -
                                 91.53
1999-16              5-3-1999    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1999-17              6-21-1999   38.040
1999-31              12-6-1999   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1999-32              12-6-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1999-33              12-6-1999   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1999-36              12-6-1999   37.15 -
                                 37.31
1999-39              12-20-1999  32.035
2000-01              2-7-2000    TSO IX
2000-02              2-7-2000    TSO IX
2000-04              2-22-2000   TSO VIII
2000-05              2-22-2000   TSO VIII
2000-07              4-3-2000    TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2000-08              5-1-2000    TSO VII
2000-09              5-1-2000    TSO IX
2000-10              6-5-2000    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2000-11              6-19-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2000-12              6-19-2000   TSO VII
2000-14              7-17-2000   TSO VII
2000-15              8-7-2000    TSO VII
2000-16              8-7-2000    TSO VII
2000-17              8-21-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2000-18              9-5-2000    116.017
2000-19              9-5-2000    Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
2000-20              9-5-2000    Ch. 73, Sch. III
2000-20-A            10-2-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2000-21              10-2-2000   TSO IX
2000-22              10-2-2000   TSO VI
2000-23              10-16-2000  TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2000-24              10-23-2000  36.001
                                 31.32;
2000-25              10-23-2000  32.051;
                                 32.081
2000-27              11-6-2000   TSO VII
2000-28              12-4-2000   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2000-29              12-4-2000   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2000-30              12-4-2000   116.060
2000-31              12-18-2000  36.040 -
                                 36.057
2001-2               1-16-2001   TSO IX
2001-03              2-5-2001    TSO IX
2001-04              2-20-2001   TSO V
2001-05              3-5-2001    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2001-06              3-19-2001   TSO IX
2001-09              4-16-2001   TSO III
2001-10              4-16-2001   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2001-11              5-7-2001    TSO III
                                 151.002;
                                 151.006;
                                 151.020;
                                 151.021;
                                 151.055;
2001-12              5-21-2001   151.070;
                                 151.071;
                                 151.147;
                                 151.152;
                                 151.154;
                                 151.999
2001-13              5-21-2001   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2001-14              6-4-2001    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2001-15              6-4-2001    32.130
2001-16              7-9-2001    TSO IX
2001-18              9-17-2001   TSO VII
2001-19              10-1-2001   92.092
                                 72.24;
2001-20              10-15-2001  72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
2001-22              12-3-2001   116.060
02-08                1-4-2002    TSO VII
2002-01              1-22-2002   TSO V
02-02                1-22-2002   TSO IV
2002-4               3-18-2002   TSO VII
2002-05              4-1-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
02-06                4-1-2002    TSO VII
2002-07              4-15-2002   TSO VII
2002-08              4-15-2002   TSO VII
2002-09              5-6-2002    72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
2002-13              5-20-2002   TSO II
2002-14              6-3-2002    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2002-15              6-17-2002   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2002-16              7-1-2002    TSO VIII
2002-17              7-1-2002    TSO IX
18                   7-1-2002    TSO VII
2002-20              9-3-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2002-21              9-16-2002   36.070 -
                                 36.075
2002-22              10-7-2002   TSO II
2002-23              10-21-2002  TSO III
2002-24              10-21-2002  11.02
2002-25              10-21-2002  TSO VIII
2002-26              10-21-200   TSO X
2002-27              10-21-2002  32.095
2002-30              12-2-2002   116.060
2002-31              12-2-2002   TSO VIII
2002-32              12-16-2002  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2002-33              12-16-2002  TSO VI
2003-01              1-6-2003    TSO VII
2003-2               1-6-2003    TSO VII;
                                 TSO VIII
2003-3               1-6-2003    TSO VII;
                                 TSO VIII
03-04                3-3-2003    TSO VI
03-06                3-3-2003    TSO VII
2003-07              4-21-2003   TSO IX
2003-08              5-19-2003   TSO II
2003-09              5-19-2003   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2003-10              5-19-2003   32.035
2003-11              5-19-2003   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2003-12              6-2-2003    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2003-15              7-7-2003    TSO III
03-16                7-7-2003    TSO VII
2003-17              7-7-2003    TSO VII
2003-18              7-21-2003   Ch. 37, App. A
2003-19              8-4-2003    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2003-21              8-18-2003   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2003-14              9-15-2003   TSO VII
2003-22              10-6-2003   53.07
03-24                11-17-2003  TSO VI
2003-25              11-17-2003  TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2003-26              12-15-2003  116.060
2003-27              12-15-2003  TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2003-29              12-15-2003  TSO VI
2004-01              1-20-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2004-02              2-2-2004    Ch. 37, App. A
2004-03              2-2-2004    92.093
04-04                2-2-2004    TSO VII
2004-05              4-4-2004    TSO VI
2004-06              4-4-2004    TSO VI
2004-07              5-3-2004    TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-08              5-3-2004    38.040
2004-09              5-20-2004   TSO VIII
2004-10              5-20-2004   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-11              5-20-2004   TSO IX
2004-12              6-7-2004    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2004-13              6-7-2004    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2004-14              6-21-2004   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-15              7-6-2004    TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-17              7-6-2004    TSO IX
2004-18              7-6-2004    TSO VI
2004-19              7-19-2004   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-22              8-16-2004   TSO VII
                                 31.32;
2004-23              9-7-2004    32.051;
                                 32.081
2004-24              10-4-2004   TSO VII
2004-25              10-4-2004   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2004-26              10-142004   TSO VII
2004-27              10-18-2004  32.039
2004-28              11-1-2004   TSO VII
2004-29              11-1-2004   TSO VII
2004-30              11-1-2004   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2004-31              11-1-2004   92.011;
                                 92.999
2004-34              11-15-2004  TSO V
2004-35              12-6-2004   116.060
2005-01              1-3-2005    TSO IV
2005-02              2-7-2005    150.03
2005-03              2-7-2005    150.02
2005-04              2-7-2005    36.002
2005-05              2-7-2005    TSO IX
2005-06              2-7-2005    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2005-07              2-7-2005    TSO VII
2005-08              2-7-2005    TSO VII
2005-09              2-25-2005   TSO IV
2005-10              3-21-2005   TSO VII
2005-11              3-21-2005   TSO VII
2005-12              4-18-2005   TSO X
2005-13              4-18-2005   TSO V
2005-14              5-2-2005    TSO IX
2005-15              6-6-2005    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2005-16              6-20-2005   TSO VII
2005-19              7-5-2005    Ch. 73, Sch. III
2005-20              7-5-2005    TSO VII
2005-18              8-1-2005    36.002;
                                 150.03
2005-21A             8-15-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2005-21              9-6-2005    TSO VI
2005-23              9-19-2005   150.04
2005-24              9-19-2005   150.05
2005-25              9-19-2005   37.01
2005-27              10-3-2005   36.003
2005-28              10-3-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2005-30              10-17-2005  TSO X
2005-31              10-17-2005  TSO X
2005-32              10-17-2005  TSO VI
2005-33              11-7-2005   TSO VII
2005-34              11-7-2005   TSO VII
2005-35              11-7-2005   TSO VIII
2005-36              11-21-2005  TSO X
2005-38              12-5-2005   116.060
2006-01              1-17-2006   TSO VII
2006-02              2-6-2006    Ch. 37, App. A
2006-03              2-6-2006    TSO VI
2006-04              2-6-2006    TSO VII
                                 151.001;
                                 151.002;
                                 151.004;
                                 151.020;
                                 151.021;
                                 151.026;
                                 151.055;
                                 151.056;
2006-05              3-6-2006    151.070;
                                 151.071;
                                 151.085;
                                 151.086;
                                 151.100;
                                 151.101;
                                 151.115;
                                 151.116 
                                 151.999
2006-06              3-6-2006    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2006-08              3-20-2006   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2006-09              3-20-2006   71.04;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. II
2006-11              3-20-2006   TSO VII
2006-12              4-3-2006    TSO VI
2006-13              4-17-2006   Ch. 37, App. A
2006-14              5-1-2006    TSO I
2006-15              5-1-2006    TSO X
2006-16              5-15-2006   TSO X
2006-17              6-5-2006    TSO VII
2006-18              6-5-2006    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2006-19              6-5-2006    TSO VII
2006-20              7-5-2006    TSO IX
2006-21              7-17-2006   TSO I
2006-23              8-7-2006    TSO VII
2006-24              8-7-2006    TSO IX
2006-25              8-21-2006   TSO VIII
2006-26              8-21-2006   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2006-27              10-2-2006   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2006-28              10-2-2006   TSO VII
2006-31              11-20-2006  TSO VII
2006-32              12-18-2006  116.060
2007-01              1-16-2007   TSO VIII
2007-02              1-16-2007   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2007-03              1-16-2007   TSO IX
                                 72.24;
2007-04              2-5-2007    72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
2007-05              2-5-2007    33.16
2007-06              3-5-2007    71.26;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. V
2007-07              3-19-2007   TSO VII
2007-08              4-2-2007    TSO VI
07-09                4-16-2007   33.61
2007-12              6-4-2007    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2007-15              10-1-2007   TSO VII
2007-16              10-1-2007   TSO VII
2007-17              10-15-2007  91.20;
                                 131.18
                                 71.26;
2007-18              11-5-2007   71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. V
2007-19              11-5-2007   TSO VII
                                 151.170 -
2007-20              11-19-2007  151.184;
                                 151.999
                                 31.13;
                                 32.004;
                                 32.011;
                                 32.125;
                                 51.15;
                                 51.16;
2007-21              12-3-2007   52.006;
                                 52.015;
                                 52.032 -
                                 52.036;
                                 52.051;
                                 52.999;
                                 53.03
2007-24              12-17-2007  116.060
2008-01              1-7-2008    TSO VII
                                 71.26;
2008-02              2-4-2008    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. V
2008-03              3-3-2008    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2008-04              3-17-2008   72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
2008-05              3-17-2008   TSO VII
2008-06              4-21-2008   TSO III
2008-07              5-19-2008   TSO VII
2008-08              6-2-2008    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2008-10              6-2-2008    TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2008-11              6-16-2008   TSO V
2008-12              6-16-2008   TSO X
2008-13              6-16-2008   TSO IX
2008-14              9-15-2008   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2008-15              9-15-2008   37.45 -
                                 37.47
2008-16              9-15-2008   TSO VIII
2008-17              9-15-2008   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2008-18              9-15-2008   TSO IX
                                 31.32;
2008-19              10-9-2008   32.051;
                                 32.081
2008-20              10-20-2008  TSO IX
2008-21              11-17-2008  Ch. 37, App. A
2008-22              11-17-2008  TSO VII
2008-24              12-15-2008  TSO VIII
2008-25              12-15-2008  TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2008-26              12-15-2008  TSO IX
2009-01              1-20-2009   TSO VII
2009-02              3-2-2009    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2009-03              5-4-2009    TSO VII
2009-04              5-18-2009   TSO VII
2009-05              5-18-2009   TSO VI
2009-06              5-18-2009   TSO VI
2009-07              5-18-2009   TSO VI
2009-09              5-18-2009   TSO VII
2009-11              6-1-2009    TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
2009-12              6-1-2009    TSO IX
2009-13              6-1-2009    TSO VII
2009-14              6-15-2009   38.055 -
                                 38.058
2009-16              7-6-2009    TSO IX
2009-17              9-8-2009    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. III
                                 71.26;
2009-18              9-8-2009    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2009-19              9-8-2009    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2009-20              9-8-2009    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2009-21, § 18.5-1-1 10-5-2009   153.001
2009-21, § 18.5-1-2 10-5-2009   153.002
2009-21, § 18.5-1-3 10-5-2009   153.003
2009-21, § 18.5-1-4 10-5-2009   153.004
2009-21, § 18.5-1-5 10-5-2009   153.005
2009-21, § 18.5-1-6 10-5-2009   153.006
2009-21, § 18.5-2-1 10-5-2009   153.007
2009-21, § 18.5-2-2 10-5-2009   153.008
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1 10-5-2009   153.020
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2 10-5-2009   153.021
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3 10-5-2009   153.022
2009-21, § 18.5-3-4 10-5-2009   153.023
2009-21, § 18.5-3-5 10-5-2009   153.024
2009-21, § 18.5-3-6 10-5-2009   153.025
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1110-5-2009   153.035
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1210-5-2009   153.036
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1410-5-2009   153.038
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1510-5-2009   153.039
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1610-5-2009   153.040
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1710-5-2009   153.041
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1810-5-2009   153.042
2009-21, § 18.5-3-1910-5-2009   153.043
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2010-5-2009   153.044
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2110-5-2009   153.045
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2210-5-2009   153.046
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2310-5-2009   153.060
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2410-5-2009   153.061
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2510-5-2009   153.062
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2610-5-2009   153.063
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2710-5-2009   153.064
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2810-5-2009   153.065
2009-21, § 18.5-3-2910-5-2009   153.066
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3010-5-2009   153.067
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3510-5-2009   153.080
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3610-5-2009   153.081
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3710-5-2009   153.082
2009-21, § 18.5-3-3910-5-2009   153.083
2009-21, § 18.5-3-4010-5-2009   153.084
2009-21, § 18.5-3-4110-5-2009   153.085
2009-21, § 18.5-3-4210-5-2009   153.086
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1 10-5-2009   153.999
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2 10-5-2009   153.120
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3 10-5-2009   153.121
2009-21, § 18.5-4-4 10-5-2009   153.122
2009-21, § 18.5-4-5 10-5-2009   153.123
2009-21, § 18.5-4-6 10-5-2009   153.124
2009-21, § 18.5-4-7 10-5-2009   153.125
2009-21, § 18.5-4-8 10-5-2009   153.126
2009-21, § 18.5-4-9 10-5-2009   153.127
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1010-5-2009   153.128
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1110-5-2009   153.129
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1210-5-2009   153.130
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1310-5-2009   153.140
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1410-5-2009   153.141
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1510-5-2009   153.142
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1610-5-2009   153.143
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1710-5-2009   153.144
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1810-5-2009   153.145
2009-21, § 18.5-4-1910-5-2009   153.160
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2010-5-2009   153.161
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2110-5-2009   153.162
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2210-5-2009   153.163
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2310-5-2009   153.164
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2410-5-2009   153.165
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2510-5-2009   153.166
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2710-5-2009   153.167
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2810-5-2009   153.168
2009-21, § 18.5-4-2910-5-2009   153.169
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3010-5-2009   153.185
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3110-5-2009   153.186
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3210-5-2009   153.187
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3310-5-2009   153.188
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3410-5-2009   153.189
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3510-5-2009   153.190
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3610-5-2009   153.191
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3710-5-2009   153.192
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3810-5-2009   153.193
2009-21, § 18.5-4-3910-5-2009   153.194
2009-21, § 18.5-4-4010-5-2009   153.195
2009-21, § 18.5-4-4110-5-2009   153.210
2009-21, § 18.5-4-4210-5-2009   153.211
2009-21, § 18.5-4-4310-5-2009   153.212
2009-22              12-7-2009   150.01
2009-25              12-21-2009  TSO I
2010-01              1-4-2010    TSO VII
                                 72.27;
2010-02              1-19-2010   72.99;
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. IV
2010-03              1-19-2010   TSO VIII;
                                 TSO IX
                                 134.40 -
2010-04              1-19-2010   134.45;
                                 134.99
2010-05              2-1-2010    TSO III
2010-07              2-16-2010   TSO IX
2010-08              2-16-2010   TSO IV
2010-09              2-16-2010   TSO IV
2010-10              3-1-2010    Ch. 37, App. A
2010-12              5-17-2010   TSO X
2010-13              6-7-2010    38.055 -
                                 38.058
2010-15              9-7-2010    38.020 -
                                 38.026
2010-16              11-1-2010   71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 50.001;
2010-17              12-20-2010  50.006;
                                 50.046;
                                 50.999
2011-01              4-4-2011    151.007
2011-02              4-4-2011    TSO VIII
2011-03              4-18-2011   TSO IX
2011-04              5-2-2011    TSO VII
                                 133.50 -
2011-05              5-2-2011    133.52;
                                 133.99
2011-06              6-6-2011    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2011-07              6-6-2011    32.145
2011-08              6-20-2011   Ch. 37, App. A
2011-11              7-8-2011    TSO VIII
2011-12              9-6-2011    TSO VII
2011-13              9-6-2011    71.99;
                                 Ch. 73, Sch. II
2011-14              10-3-2011   11.02
2011-15              10-3-2011   TSO IX
2011-17              11-7-2011   TSO VIII
2011-22              12-19-2011  70.60 -
                                 70.64
2012-01              2-6-2012    70.60
2012-02              2-6-2012    35.017
2012-03              4-16-2012   TSO VII
2012-04              5-7-2012    TSO VIII
2012-05              5-21-2012   TSO IX
2012-06              6-18-2012   38.055 -
                                 38.058
                                 10.99;
2012-08              7-2-2012    91.18;
                                 91.19
                                 31.09;
                                 31.13;
                                 32.004;
                                 32.011;
                                 32.125;
                                 92.005;
                                 92.009;
2012-10              8-6-2012    92.025;
                                 92.026;
                                 92.027;
                                 92.055;
                                 92.056;
                                 92.087;
                                 92.092;
                                 92.093;
                                 151.005
2012-12              8-6-2012    TSO VII
2012-13              8-6-2012    TSO X
2012-14              8-20-2012   113.01
2012-15              8-20-2012   TSO X
2012-16              8-20-2012   TSO IX
2012-17              9-17-2012   31.32
2012-18              9-17-2012   32.051
2012-19              9-17-2012   32.081
2012-20              10-1-2012   72.99,
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
2012-21              11-19-2012  TSO X
2013-01              5-6-2013    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2013-04              6-3-2013    TSO I
2013-05              6-3-2013    32.145
2013-06              6-17-2013   33.80 -
                                 33.90
2013-07              7-15-2013   31.10
2013-08              7-15-2013   31.33
                                 151.001;
                                 151.020;
                                 151.021;
                                 151.055;
                                 151.056;
                                 151.070;
                                 151.071;
2013-09              8-5-2013    151.085;
                                 151.086;
                                 151.100;
                                 151.101;
                                 151.115;
                                 151.116;
                                 151.165;
                                 151.166
2013-10              9-3-2013    TSO VII
2013-11              9-3-2013    TSO VII
2013-12              9-16-2013   31.40
                                 154.001  -
                                 154.005; 
                                 154.020  -
                                 154.033; 
                                 154.045  -
                                 154.067; 
                                 154.080  -
- -                  - -         154.089; 
                                 154.100  -
                                 154.106; 
                                 154.120  -
                                 154.125; 
                                 154.140  -
                                 154.143; 
                                 154.999
2013-13              10-7-2013   116.028
2013-14              10-21-2013  TSO IX
2014-01              1-7-2014    TSO VII
2014-02              1-21-2014   155.01  -
                                 155.06
- -                  2-22-2014   TSO VII
- -                  3-31-2014   TSO VII
2014-04              4-21-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
- -                  - -         154.032
- -                  - -         154.033
2014-05              4-21-2014   TSO VII
2014-05A             5-19-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2014-06              5-19-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. II
2014-07              6-2-2014    32.145
2014-08              6-2-2014    TSO IX
2014-09              6-2-2014    TSO VIII
2014-10              6-16-2014   TSO X
2014-11              6-16-2014   TSO IX
2014-12              6-16-2014   91.80
2014-14              7-21-2014   TSO VII
2014-16              9-15-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2014-17              9-15-2014   TSO X
2014-18              10-20-2014  31.10
2014-19              10-20-2014  31.33
2014-20              10-20-2014  51.19
2014-21              11-17-2014  TSO IX
2015-01              1-5-2015    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2015-02              1-5-2015    TSO VII
2015-03              1-20-2015   TSO VI
2015-05              2-17-2015   TSO V
2015-06              2-17-2015   TSO IX
2015-07              3-16-2015   TSO IX
2015-09              4-6-2015    TSO VII
2015-10              4-20-2015   TSO VIII
2015-11              4-20-2015   TSO IX
2015-12              5-4-2015    31.33
2015-13              5-4-2015    31.12;
                                 31.13
2015-14              5-18-2015   TSO III
2015-15              6-1-2015    TSO V
2015-17              6-15-2015   TSO IX
2015-18              6-15-2015   TSO IX
2015-19              6-15-2015   154.032
2015-21              10-5-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2015-22              10-5-2015   TSO VI
2015-23              11-2-2015   TSO V
2016-01              1-19-2016   TSO V
2016-02              2-1-2016    TSO VIII
2016-05              3-21-2016   155.01 -
                                 155.06
                                 90.25,
2016-06              4-4-2016    90.36,
                                 90.51 -
                                 90.54
2016-07              4-4-2016    TSO VII
2016-11              4-18-2016   TSO VII
2016-12              4-18-2016   TSO IX
2016-13              5-2-2016    TSO VII
2016-14              5-2-2016    TSO VII
2016-15              5-16-2016   TSO I
2016-16              5-16-2016   TSO X
2016-17              6-6-2016    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2016-18              6-6-2016    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2016-19              6-6-2016    38.055
2016-21              7-18-2016   TSO IX
2016-23              8-1-2016    TSO VIII
2016-24              8-15-2016   TSO VI
                                 31.32,
2016-27              9-19-2016   32.051,
                                 32.081
                                 153.001 -
                                 153.008,
                                 153.020 -
                                 153.025,
                                 153.035 -
2016-29              11-7-2016   153.046,
                                 153.060 -
                                 153.067,
                                 153.085,
                                 153.086,
                                 153.140 -
                                 153.145
2016-30              11-21-2016  TSO VIII
2016-33              12-19-2016  70.65
2017-01              2-6-2017    10.98
2017-02              2-21-2017   154.049
                                 153.005;
                                 153.065;
                                 153.080 -
                                 153.085;
                                 153.120 -
                                 153.130;
                                 153.160 -
                                 153.169;
                                 Ch. 153, App. A;
2017-03              3-6-2017    156.001 -
                                 156.010;
                                 156.025 -
                                 156.030;
                                 156.045 -
                                 156.053;
                                 156.065;
                                 156.080 -
                                 156.099;
                                 156.110;
                                 Ch. 156, App. A
                                 117.01-
2017-04              3-6-2017    117.09;
                                 117.99
2017-05              3-6-2017    TSO VI
2017-06              4-3-2017    Ch. 74, Sch. II
2017-07              4-17–2017 Ch. 37, App. A
2017-08              4-17-2017   71.09,
                                 71.99
                                 153.061;
                                 153.185 -
2017-09              5-1-2017    153.195;
                                 153.210 -
                                 153.212;
                                 153.999
2017-10              5-15-2017   TSO VII
2017-12              6-5-2017    TSO VII
2017-13              6-5-2017    TSO VII
2017-14              6-5-2017    32.145
2017-15              6-19-2017   TSO VII
2017-16              7-17-2017   154.055
2017-21              8-21-2017   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2017-22              9-18-2017   150.06
2017-23              11-6-2017   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2017-26              12-4-2017   38.070 -
                                 38.075
2018-01              2-5-2018    TSO VIII
2018-02              2-20-2018   TSO VII
2018-04              3-19-2018   TSO V
2018-05              4-2-2018    TSO VIII
2018-07              4-16-2018   TSO VII
2018-08              5-7-2018    TSO VII
2018-09              5-21-2018   154.031
2018-10              5-7-2018    TSO VIII
2018-11              5-21-2018   TSO IX
2018-12              6-4-2018    TSO VI
2018-13              6-18-2018   32.145
2018-15              7-2-2018    TSO IX
2018-16              7-2-2018    TSO VII
2018-17              7-2-2018    TSO VII
2018-18              7-16-2018   92.105 -
                                 92.110
2018-19              9-17-2018   TSO X
2018-20              11-5-2018   38.072;
                                 38.073
2018-21              11-5-2018   TSO VII
2019-01              1-22-2019   TSO VII
2019-02              3-4-2019    TSO VIII
2019-03              3-18-2019   150.01
2019-04              4-15-2019   TSO X
2019-05              6-3-2019    TSO VII
                                 113.11 -
2019-06              6-17-2019   113.23 ;  
                                 113.99
2019-09              7-29-2019   TSO VI
2019-11              9-3-2019    134.40 -
                                 134.44
2019-12              9-9-2019    TSO VII
2019-15              10-21-2019  TSO VIII
2019-16              10-21-2019  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2019-17              10-21-2019  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2019-18              10-21-2019  154.068
2019-19              10-21-2019  118.01 -
                                 118.04
2020-01              1-21-2020   155.04
2020-04              2-18-2020   133.60 -
                                 133.63
                                 133.21 ;  
                                 133.22 ;  
2020-05              2-18-2020   133.35 ;  
                                 133.37 -
                                 133.39
2020-06              2-18-2020   118.05
2020-07              3-20-2020   36.004
2020-10              4-6-2020    131.04
2020-11              4-20-2020   TSO VII
2020-12              5-4-2020    TSO VII
2020-13              5-4-2020    TSO VII
2020-14              5-4-2020    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                                 53.06 ;  
                                 90.06 ;  
                                 153.040 ;  
                                 153.042 ;  
                                 153.046 ;  
                                 153.047 ;  
2020-15              6-15-2020   153.065 ;  
                                 153.086 ;  
                                 Ch. 153, App. A ;  
                                 154.020 ;  
                                 154.031 -
                                 154.033 ;  
                                 154.066 ;  
                                 154.087
2020-18              8-3-2020    TSO VII
                                 31.32 ;  
2020-19              9-8-2020    32.051 ;  
                                 32.064 ;  
                                 32.081
2020-21              10-5-2020   TSO VII
                                 50.045 ;  
2020-22              10-5-2020   50.046 ;  
                                 50.999
2020-24              10-19-2020  TSO VII
2020-25              11-2-2020   TSO V
2021-01              2-16-2021   TSO VII
2021-02              3-1-2021    35.090 -
                                 35.092
2021-03              3-15-2021   TSO VII
2021-04              4-5-2021    TSO IX
2021-05              4-19-2021   Ch. 37, App. A
2021-06              5-3-2021    TSO VII
                                 111.01 -
                                 111.04;
2021-07              6-7-2021    111.06 -
                                 111.12;
                                 111.14 -
                                 111.16
2021-08              6-7-2021    154.155 -
                                 154.161
2021-10              6-7-2021    TSO IX
2021-11              6-16-2021   TSO VII
2021-12              6-6-2021    TSO VII
2021-15              7-6-2021    TSO VII
2021-16              6-21-2021   TSO VII
2021-18              8-2-2021    116.017 ;  
                                 116.026
2021-19              8-16-2021   TSO III
2021-21              9-7-2021    37.45 -
                                 37.47
2021-22              9-7-2021    51.03
2021-24              10-4-2021   36.001
2021-26              11-1-2021   TSO X
2021-27              11-1-2021   TSO X
2021-36              12-20-2021  52.019
2022-01              1-18-2022   Ch. 37, App. A
2022-02              2-7-2022    TSO VII
                                 70.80 -
2022-03              2-7-2021    70.83;
                                 70.99
2022-04              2-22-2022   TSO VIII
2022-05              2-22-2022   TSO VIII
2022-06              3-21-2022   TSO VIII
2022-07              3-21-2022   TSO VIII
2022-08              3-21-2022   TSO VIII
2022-09              3-21-2022   TSO VIII
2022-11              3-21-2022   Ch. 37, App. A;
                                 113.01
2022-12              4-4-2022    TSO X
2022-13              4-18-2022   TSO VII
                                 154.005;
2022-14              4-18-2022   154.080 -
                                 154.090
2022-15              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-16              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-17              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-18              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-19              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-20              6-6-2022    TSO VIII
                                 31.03;
                                 31.06;
2022-21              6-6-2022    31.10;
                                 31.13;
                                 31.33
2022-22              6-20-2022   154.020;
                                 154.033
2022-24              7-18-2022   TSO VIII
2022-25              7-18-2022   TSO VIII
2022-26              7-18-2022   TSO VIII
2022-27              7-18-2022   TSO VIII
2022-28              7-18-2022   TSO VIII
2022-29              8-1-2022    TSO VIII
2022-30              8-15-2022   TSO VIII
2022-31              8-15-2022   TSO IX
2022-32              9-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-33              9-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-34              9-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-35              9-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-36              9-6-2022    TSO VIII
2022-37              9-19-2022   TSO VIII
2022-38              9-19-2022   TSO VIII
2022-39              9-19-2022   TSO VIII
2022-40              9-19-2022   TSO VIII
2022-41              9-19-2022   TSO VIII
                                 50.001;
2022-42              10-3-2022   50.045;
                                 50.046;
                                 50.999
2022-44              10-3-2022   TSO VIII
2022-45              10-3-2022   Ch. 37, App. A;
                                 113.01
2022-46              10-3-2022   TSO VI
2022-47              10-3-2022   TSO VI
2022-48              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-49              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-50              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-51              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-52              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-53              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-54              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-55              10-17-2022  TSO VIII
2022-56              11-7-2022   TSO VIII
2022-57              11-7-2022   TSO VIII
2022-58              11-7-2022   TSO VIII
2022-59              11-7-2022   TSO VIII
2022-60              11-7-2022   TSO VIII
                                 54.01 -
2022-61              11-7-2022   54.23;
                                 54.99
2022-62              11-7-2022   TSO VII
2023-01              1-17-2023   TSO IX
2023-02              1-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-03              1-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-04              1-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-05              1-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-06              1-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-08              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-09              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-10              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-11              2-21-2023    
                                 TSO VIII
2023-12              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-13              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-14              2-21-2023   TSO VIII
2023-15              3-20-2023   TSO X
2023-16              3-20-2023   TSO IX
2023-17              3-20-2023   TSO IX
2023-18              4-3-2023    32.081
2023-19              4-17-2023   TSO VII
2023-20              4-17-2023   TSO VII
2023-21              4-17-2023   TSO X
2023-22              5-15-2023   TSO VIII
2023-23              5-15-2023   TSO VIII
2023-24              5-15-2023   TSO VIII
2023-25              5-15-2023   TSO VIII
2023-26              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-27              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-28              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-29              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-30              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-31              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-32              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-33              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-34              6-5-2023    TSO VIII
2023-37              6-19-2023   TSO VIII
2023-40              7-3-2023    TSO VIII
2023-41              7-17-2023   TSO VIII
2023-42              8-7-2023    TSO X
                                 154.005;
                                 154.020;
2023-43              8-7-2023    154.031 -
                                 154.033;
                                 154.084
2023-44              8-7-2023    TSO VIII
2023-48              9-18-2023   TSO VII
                                 157.01 -
2023-49              9-18-2023   157.13;
                                 157.99
2023-51              9-18-2023   TSO IX
2023-52              10-2-2023   Ch. 73, Sch. VII
2023-55              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-56              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-57              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-58              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-59              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-60              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-61              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-62              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-63              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-64              11-6-2023   TSO VIII
2023-65              11-6-2023   TSO III
2023-66              11-20-2023   
2023-67              11-6-2023   TSO X
2023-71              12-18-2023  113.01
2023-72              12-18-2023  116.017
2024-01              1-2-2024    TSO VIII
2024-02              1-2-2024    TSO VIII
2024-03              1-2-2024    TSO VIII
2024-04              1-16-2024   TSO IX
2024-05              2-5-2024    35.045
2024-06              2-5-2024    35.035
2024-07              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-08              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-09              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-10              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-11              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-12              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-13              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-14              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-15              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-16              3-18-2024   TSO VIII
2024-17              4-15-2024   90.06
2024-18              5-6-2024    TSO VII
2024-19              5-6-2024    TSO VII
2024-20              5-6-2024    TSO VII
2024-21              5-6-2024    TSO VII
2024-22              5-6-2024    32.039;
                                 32.126
2024-24              5-20-2024   TSO VIII
2024-25              5-20-2024   TSO VIII
2024-26              5-20-2024   TSO VIII
2024-27              5-20-2024   TSO VIII
2024-28              5-20-2024   TSO VIII
2024-29              5-20-2024   TSO X
2024-30              5-20-2024   TSO X
2024-31              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-32              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-33              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-34              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-35              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-36              6-3-2024    TSO VIII
2024-37              6-17-2024   32.051
2024-38              6-17-2024   TSO VIII
2024-39              6-17-2024   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2024-41              7-1-2024    TSO VIII
2024-42              7-1-2024    TSO VIII
2024-43              7-1-2024    TSO VIII
2024-44              7-1-2024    TSO VIII
2024-45              7-1-2024    Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2024-47              8-5-2024    131.34
2024-48              8-5-2024    TSO X
2024-50              8-5-2024    116.017
                                 111.04;
                                 111.06 -
                                 111.08;
2024-51              8-5-2024    111.10 -
                                 111.12;
                                 111.14;
                                 111.16;
                                 111.99
2024-52              8-19-2024   TSO VIII
2024-53              8-19-2024   TSO VIII
2024-54              8-19-2024   TSO IX
2024-55              9-16-2024   Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                                 154.005;
                                 154.020;
2024-56              9-16-2024   154.032;
                                 155.02 -
                                 155.05
2024-57              10-7-2024   119.01 -
                                 119.03
2024-58              11-4-2024   119.01 -
                                 119.03
2025-59              11-4-2024   Ch. 37, App. A
2024-60              11-18-2024  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2024-63              12-16-2024  154.069
2024-64              12-16-2024  150.01
                                
 
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Troy beginning with Ordinance 2011-14. The table includes links to
the ordinances (as maintained in PDF format) and to the code sections affected
(where applicable). For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
Ord. 2011-14, please contact the Village Clerk.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2011 Ordinances
2012 Ordinances
2013 Ordinances
2014 Ordinances
2015 Ordinances
2016 Ordinances
2017 Ordinances
2018 Ordinances
2019 Ordinances
2020 Ordinances
2021 Ordinances
2022 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2025 Ordinances
2011 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2011-14  10-3-2011  Ward Boundaries
                    11.02
2011-22  12-19-2011 Vehicle Seizure and Impoundment
                    70.60 - 70.64
 
 
2012 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2012-01  2-6-2012   Vehicle Seizure and Impoundment
                    70.60
2012-02  2-6-2012   Police Department - Bail
                    35.017
2012-03  4-16-2012  Employment Agreement between City and Robert Rizzi
                    TSO VII
2012-04  5-7-2012   Annexation - 217 Hazel Street
                    TSO VIII
2012-05  5-21-2012  Rezoning
                    TSO IX
2012-06  6-18-2012  Regulating Wages of Laborers, Mechanics and Other Works
                    38.055 - 38.058
2012-07  7-2-2012   Annual appropriation ord.
                    Increase ordinance violation ticket (OVT); Decrease
2012-08  7-2-2012   nuisance abatement time
                    10.99; 91.18; 91.19
2012-09  7-16-2012  Electricity supply by city
                    Director of Public Works
2012-10  8-6-2012   31.09; 31.13; 32.004; 32.011; 32.125; 92.005; 92.009;
                    92.025; 92.026; 92.027; 92.055; 92.056; 92.087; 92.092;
                    92.093; 151.005
                    Street Superintendent
2012-11  8-6-2012    
                    Repeals § 32.126
                    Agreement for water and sewer service and pre-annexation
2012-12  8-6-2012   with Shadow Wood Development LLC
                    TSO VII
                    Special Use of specific parcel at 106 Oak Street (Outdoor
2012-13  8-6-2012   accessory structure and picnic area)
                    TSO X
2012-14  8-20-2012  Permitting Video Gaming
                    113.01
                    Special Use of specific parcel at 440 Edwardsville Rd
2012-15  8-20-2012  (Seasonal Tropical Sno)
                    TSO X
2012-16  8-20-2012  Rezoning
                    TSO IX
2012-17  9-17-2012  Mayor and Alderman Compensation
                    31.32
2012-18  9-17-2012  City Clerk Compensation
                    32.051
2012-19  9-17-2012  City Treasurer Compensation
                    32.081
                    Parking Restrictions on east side of North Hickory Street
2012-20  10-1-2012  from East Market Street to East Clay Street)
                    72.99, Ch. 74, Sch. II
                    Special Use of a specific parcel (Small engine repair
2012-21  11-19-2012 business)
                    TSO X
 
 
2013 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2013-01   5-6-2013   Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2013-02   5-6-2013   Standing Committees enumerated; duties
                     31.13
2013-03   5-20-2013  Annual appropriation ord.
                     General obligation (limited tax) refunding debt
2013-04   6-3-2013   certificates series 2013
                      
                     TSO I
2013-05   6-3-2013   Regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other works
                     32.145
2013-06   6-17-2013  Historic Preservation
                     33.80 - 33.90
2013-07   7-15-2013  Citizen Participation
                     31.10
2013-08   7-15-2013  Order of Business
                     31.33
R-2013-08 8-5-2013    
                     Amending Building Code
2013-09   8-5-2013   151.001; 151.020; 151.021; 151.055; 151.056; 151.070;
                     151.071; 151.085; 151.086; 151.100; 151.101; 151.115;
                     151.116; 151.165; 151.166
R-2013-09 8-5-2013    
2013-10   9-3-2013   Redevelopment Agreement
                     TSO VII
R-2013-10 8-19-2013   
2013-11   9-3-2013   Employment Agreement Jeff Soland
                     TSO VII
R-2013-11 8-19-2013   
2013-12   9-16-2013  Executive Meetings
                     31.40
2013-13   10-7-2013  Alcoholic Beverages
                     116.028
2013-14   10-21-2013 Rezoning
                     TSO IX
R-2013-14 9-16-2013   
 
 
2014 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2014-01   1-7-2014   Boundary Line Agreement
                     TSO VII
R-2014-01 1-21-2014   
2014-02   1-21-2014  Sign Regulations
                     155.01  - 155.06
                     Clearing snow and ice from sidewalks
2014-03   2-3-2014    
                     Repealed § 92.003
2014-04   4-21-2014  Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2014-05   4-21-2014  Boundary Line Agreement
                     TSO VII
2014-05A  5-19-2014  No Parking Zone
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
2014-06   5-19-2014  No Parking Zone
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
2014-07   6-2-2014   Regulating wages of laborers, mechanics and other works
                     32.145
2014-08   5-21-2014  Rezoning multiple properties
                     TSO IX
2014-09   5-16-2014  Annexation
                     TSO VIII
2014-10   6-16-2014  Special use of specific parcel (bridal shop and hall)
                     TSO X
2014-11   6-16-2014  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
2014-12   6-16-2014  Food sanitation
                     91.80
2014-14   7-21-2014  Intergovernmental agreement
                     TSO VII
2014-15   7-21-2014  Annual appropriation ord.
R-2014-15 11-17-2014  
2014-16   9-15-2014  Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                     Special use of specific parcel (medical cannabis
2014-17   9-15-2014  cultivation facility)
                     TSO X
2014-18   10-20-2014 Citizen Participation
                     31.10
2014-19   10-20-2014 Order of Business
                     31.33
2014-20   10-20-2014 Conversion of Recyclable Metals
                     51.19
                     Rezoning multiple properties
2014-21   11-17-2014  
                     TSO IX
2014-22   12-11-2014 Tax levy
 
 
2015 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2015-01   1-5-2015   Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                     Refuse and recyclable material collection contract with
2015-02   1-5-2015   Republic Services
                     TSO VII
                     Jurisdictional transfer of South Main Street to municipal
2015-03   1-20-2015  street system
                     TSO VI
2015-04   2-17-2015  Public water supply loan program
                     Auction of surplus vehicles
2015-05   2-17-2015   
                     TSO V
2015-06   2-17-2015  Rezoning
                     TSO VI
R-2015-06 4-20-2015  TSO VI
2015-07   3-16-2015  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
                     Employment agreement with Jeff Soland
2015-09   4-6-2015    
                     TSO VII
2015-10   4-20-2015  Annexation
                     TSO VIII
2015-11   4-20-2015  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
2015-12   5-4-2015   Order of Business
                     31.33
2015-13   5-4-2015   Membership in Committees and Standing Committees
                     31.12; 31.13
2015-14   5-18-2015  Street vacation
                     TSO III
R-2015-14 7-20-2015  TSO VI
2015-15   6-1-2015   Auction surplus vehicles
                     TSO V
R-2015-15 8-3-2015   TSO VI
R-2015-16 8-17-2015  TSO VI
2015-17   6-15-2015  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
2015-18   6-15-2015  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
R-2015-18 10-19-2015 TSO VII
2015-19   6-15-2015  Area and Bulk Regulations; Parking Requirements
                     154.032
R-2015-19 10-19-2015  
2015-20   7-6-2015   Annual appropriation ord.
2015-21   10-5-2015  Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2015-22   10-5-2015  Dedicating Public Right of Ways
                     TSO VI
2015-23   11-2-2015  Surplus vehicles
                     TSO V
2015-24   12-7-2015  Tax levy
                    
 
 
2016 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Surplus vehicles
2016-01   1-19-2016   
                     TSO V
R-2016-01 1-4-2016    
2016-02   2-1-2016   Annexation
                     TSO VIII
R-2016-02 1-4-2016   TSO VII
2016-03   2-16-2016  Electricity aggregation
R-2016-03 1-19-2016   
2016-04   3-7-2016   Public hearing re: Business District establishment
R-2016-04 2-1-2016    
2016-05   3-21-2016  Sign Ordinance
                     155.01 - 155.06
R-2016-05 2-19-2016  TSO VII
2016-06   4-4-2016   Animal ordinance
                     90.25, 90.36, 90.51 - 90.54
R-2016-06 3-7-2016   TSO VI
                     Collective bargaining agreement: International Association
2016-07   4-4-2016   of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (DIstrict 9)
                     TSO VII
R-2016-07 3-7-2016   TSO VI
R-2016-08 3-21-2016   
2016-09   4-18-2016  Establishing Business District II
R-2016-09 3-21-2016   
2016-11   4-18-2016  TIF redevelopment agreement
                     TSO VII
R-2016-11 3-21-2016   
2016-12   4-18-2016  Rezoning
                     TSO IX
R-2016-12 4-4-2016    
2016-13   5-2-2016   Employment agreement with Brad Parsons
                     TSO VII
R-2016-13 4-18-2016  TSO VII
2016-14   5-2-2016   Employment agreement with Rob Hancock
                     TSO VII
                     General obligation bonds
2016-15   5-16-2016   
                     TSO I
2016-16   5-16-2016  Special use
                     TSO X
R-2016-16 6-6-2016    
2016-17   6-6-2016   Remove parking restrictions
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
R-2016-17 6-6-2016   TSO VI
2016-18   6-6-2016   Remove parking restrictions
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
R-2016-18 6-20-2016   
2016-19   6-6-2016   Regulating wages of laborers, mechanics, and other workers
                     38.055
R-2016-19 8-1-2016   TSO VI
R-2016-20 7-18-2016   
2016-21   7-18-2016  Amending zoning of lots from R-3 to R-1
                     TSO IX
R-2016-21 8-1-2016    
R-2016-22 8-15-2016   
2016-23   8-1-2016   Annexation
                     TSO VIII
2016-24   8-15-2016  Accepting 203 Crossington Lane
                     TSO VI
2016-25   9-19-2016  Amends Ord. 2016-09 (Business Dist. II)
R-2016-26 11-21-2016  
2016-27   9-19-2016  Compensation of elected officials
                     31.32, 32.051, 32.081
R-2016-27 11-21-2016  
R-2016-28 12-5-2016  TSO VII
                     Subdivision ordinance
2016-29   11-7-2016  153.001 - 153.008, 153.020 - 153.025, 153.035 - 153.046,
                     153.060 - 153.067, 153.085, 153.086, 153.140 - 153.145
R-2016-29 12-19-2016 32.017
2016-30   11-21-2016 Annexation
                     TSO VIII
2016-32   12-5-2016  Tax levy
2016-33   12-19-2016 Right to possession of vehicle
                     70.65
                    
 
 
2017 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Police department fees and charges
2017-01   2-6-2017    
                     10.98
R-2017-01 2-6-2017    
                     Regulating home occupations
2017-02   2-21-2017   
                     154.049
R-2017-02 2-6-2017   TSO VII
                     Subdivision ordinance; Stormwater drainage and detention,
                     soil erosion and sediment control
2017-03   3-6-2017   153.005, 153.065, 153.080 - 153.085, 153.120 - 153.130,
                     153.160 - 153.169, Ch. 153. App. A, 156.001 - 156.010,
                     156.025 - 156.030, 156.045 - 156.053, 156.065, 156.080 -
                     156.099, 156.110, Ch. 156, App. A
R-2017-03 3-6-2017    
2017-04   3-6-2017   Business Regulations: Roofing Contractors
                     117.01 - 117.09, 117.99
R-2017-04 3-6-2017    
2017-05   3-6-2017   Purchasing land
                     TSO VI
R-2017-05 3-6-2017    
2017-06   4-3-2017   No parking signs installed
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
R-2017-06 3-20-2017   
2017-07   4-17-2017  Water fees
                     Ch. 37, App. A
R-2017-07 5-1-2017    
2017-08   4-17-2017  Load Limits
                     71.09, 71.99
R-2017-08 5-1-2017    
2017-09   5-1-2017   Subdivision Ordinance
                     153.061, 153.185 - 153.195, 153.210 - 153.212, 153.999
R-2017-09 5-15-2017   
2017-10   5-15-2017  Intergovernmental cooperation agreement with Glen Carbon
                     TSO VII
R-2017-10 6-5-2017    
2017-11   6-5-2017   Annual appropriation ord.
R-2017-11 7-6-2017    
2017-12   6-5-2017   Employment agreement with Jeff Soland
                     TSO VII
R-2017-12 7-17-2017   
2017-13   6-5-2017   Employment agreement with Brad Parsons
                     TSO VII
R-2017-13 10-16-2017  
                     Regulating wages of laborers, mechanics, and other workers
2017-14   6-5-2017    
                     32.145
R-2017-14 11-6-2017  TSO VII
2017-15   6-19-2017  Employment agreement with Rob Hancock
                     TSO VII
R-2017-15 11-6-2017   
                     Aerials, Antennas, Telecommunication Towers and
2017-16   7-17-2017  Facilities, Small Cell Facilities and Utility Substations
                     154.055
R-2017-16 11-20-2017  
R-2017-17 12-18-2017  
2017-18   7-17-2017  Public Hearing to establish Business District
R-2017-18 12-18-2017  
2017-20   8-21-2017  Public Hearing to establish Business District
2017-21   8-21-2017  Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                     Establishing Business District III; authorizing imposition
2017-22   9-18-2017  and collection of sales tax
                     150.06
2017-23   11-6-2017  Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2017-24   11-20-2017 Tax abatement
2017-25   12-4-2017  Tax levy
2017-26   12-4-2017  Adopting sexual harassment policy
                     38.070 - 38.075
                    
 
 
2018 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date    Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2018-01   2-5-2018     Annexation
                       TSO VIII
R-2018-01 1-16-2018     
                       Intergovernmental Agreement
2018-02   2-20-2018     
                       TSO VII
R-2018-02 2-20-2018     
2018-03   3-5-2018     Annexation
                       TSO VII
R-2018-03 3-19-2018     
2018-04   3-19-2018    Sale of surplus property
                       TSO V
R-2018-04 4-2-2018      
2018-05   4-2-2018     Annexation
                       TSO VIII
R-2018-05 4-16-2018     
2018-06   Never Passed Sale of real estate owned by city - no bids received
R-2018-06 7-7-2018      
                       Collective bargaining agreement with Troy Dispatchers
2018-07   4-16-2018    and Policemen's Benevolent Labor Committee
                       TSO VII
R-2018-07 5-21-2018     
2018-08   5-7-2018     Intergovernmental Agreement
                       TSO VII
R-2018-08 7-2-2018      
2018-09   5-24-2018    Accessory Uses
                       154.031
R-2018-09 10-1-2018    TSO VII
2018-10   5-7-2018     Annexation
                       TSO VIII
R-2018-10 10-15-2018    
2018-11   5-21-2018    Rezoning
                       TSO IX
R-2018-11 11-5-2018     
2018-12   6-4-2018     Sale of real estate (203 Crossington Lane)
                       TSO VI
                       Regulating wages of Laborers, Mechanics and Other
2018-13   6-18-2018    Workers
                       32.145
2018-14   7-2-2018     Annual appropriation ord.
2018-15   7-2-2018     Rezoning
                       TSO IX
2018-16   7-2-2018     Intergovernmental Agreement
                       TSO VII
2018-17   7-2-2018     Intergovernmental Agreement
                       TSO VII
2018-18   7-16-2018    Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
                       92.105 - 92.110
2018-19   9-17-2018    Granting a special use
                       TSO X
2018-20   11-5-2018    Amending Prohibiting Sexual Harassment Policy
                       38.072, 38.073
2018-21   11-5-2018    TIF Development Agreement with RSAS, LLC
                       TSO VII
2018-22   12-17-2018   Tax agreement
2018-23   12-17-2018   Tax abatement
                      
 
 
2019 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     TIF Development Agreement with Aspen Creek Development LLC
2019-01   1-22-2019   
                     TSO VII
R-2019-01 1-14-2019  TSO VII
                     Amending Ord. 2008-16 Annexation Agreement pertaining to
2019-02   3-4-2019   Windsor Way Development property
                     TSO VIII
R-2019-02 2-4-2019    
2019-03   3-18-2019  Comprehensive Plan
                     150.01
R-2019-03 2-19-2019  TSO VII
2019-04   4-15-2019  Granting special use
                     TSO X
R-2019-04 3-4-2019    
2019-05   6-3-2019   Intergovernmental Agreement
                     TSO VII
R-2019-05 3-18-2019   
2019-06   6-17-2019  Regulating licensing and administration of raffles
                     113.11 - 113.23, 113.99
R-2019-06 4-1-2019    
2019-07   7-1-2019   Annual appropriation ord.
R-2019-07 4-15-2019   
2019-08   7-15-2019  Administrative procedure established
R-2019-08 4-15-2019   
2019-09   7-29-2019  Purchasing of real estate
                     TSO VI
R-2019-09 5-6-2019    
2019-10   7-29-2019  Property donation for public park
R-2019-10 6-17-2019   
2019-11   9-3-2019   Regulation of residences of registered sex offenders
                     134.40 - 134.44
R-2019-11 7-1-2019   TSO X
2019-12   9-9-2019   Employment Agreement with Douglas Partney
                     TSO VII
R-2019-12 7-1-2019   TSO X
2019-13   9-16-2019  Amending tax increment redevelopment project (Central
                     Redevelopment Project Area)
R-2019-13 7-1-2019    
2019-14   10-7-2019  Amending Ord. 2014-23 to expand and add incentives to
                     Madison County Discovery Enterprise Zone
R-2019-14 7-15-2019   
2019-15   10-21-2019 Annexation
                     TSO VIII
R-2019-15 7-29-2019   
2019-16   10-21-2019 Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
R-2019-16 8-19-2019   
2019-17   10-21-2019 Installing stop sign
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
R-2019-17 10-7-2019   
2019-18   10-21-2019 Adult-Use Cannabis
                     154.068
R-2019-18 11-4-2019  TSO VII
2019-19   10-21-2019 Cannabis regulations
                     118.01 - 118.04
R-2019-19 12-16-2019  
2019-20   12-2-2019  Open meetings recordings
2019-21   12-16-2019 Tax levy
2019-22   12-16-2019 Tax abatement
                    
 
 
2020 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2020-01   1-21-2020  Sign Regulations
                     155.04
R-2020-01 1-21-2020   
2020-02   2-3-2020   Promissory note
R-2020-02 2-3-2020    
2020-03   2-3-2020   Public hearing for establishment of Business District
R-2020-03 2-18-2020   
2020-04   2-18-2020  Prohibting sale and possession of Kratom
                     133.60 - 133.63
R-2020-04 2-18-2020   
2020-05   2-18-2020  Cannabis and Drug Paraphernalia
                     133.21, 133.22, 133.35, 133.37 - 133.39
R-2020-05 3-2-2020   TSO VII
2020-06   2-18-2020  Municipal Cannabis Retailer's Occupation Tax
                     118.05
R-2020-06 3-16-2020  31.41
                     Approving Business District IV plan; imposition and
2020-07   3-2-2020   collection of sales tax within
                     36.004
R-2020-07 3-16-2020   
2020-08   3-16-2020  Temporary executive powers
2020-09   4-6-2020   Temporary executive powers
R-2020-09 5-18-2020   
                     Violation of executive orders issued by governor related
2020-10   4-6-2020   to COVID-19 declared a public nuisance
                     131.04
R-2020-10 6-15-2020   
                     TIF Development Agreement with Lochhill, LLC (dba
2020-11   4-20-2020  Sanctuary on Main)
                     TSO VII
R-2020-11 6-15-2020   
                     Collective bargaining agreement with Department of Public
                     Works and International Association of Machinists and
2020-12   5-4-2020   Aerospace Workers, District 9
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2020-12 6-15-2020   
                     Collective bargaining agreement with Supervisory Unity of
                     the Department of Public Works and the International
2020-13   5-4-2020   Association of Machinists and Aeraspace Workers, District
                     9
                     TSO VII
R-2020-13 6-15-2020   
2020-14   5-4-2020   Installing stop signs
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
R-2020-14 7-20-2020  TSO VI
                     Establishing new residential zoning class (R-1E Single-
                     Family Residential)
2020-15   6-15-2020  53.06, 90.06, 153.040, 153.042, 153.046, 153.047, 153.065,
                     153.086, Ch. 153, App. A, 154.020, 154.031 - 154.033,
                     154.066, 154.087
R-2020-15 7-20-2020   
2020-16   7-6-2020   Annual appropriation ord.
R-2020-16 8-3-2020    
2020-17   8-3-2020   Filing Ord. 2015-10 with County Clerk's office
R-2020-17 8-3-2020   TSO VI
                     Intergovernmental Agreement with Tri-Township Park
2020-18   8-3-2020   District regarding trail construction
                     TSO VII
R-2020-18 8-17-2020   
2020-19   9-8-2020   Compensation of elected officials
                     31.32, 32.051, 32.064, 32.081
R-2020-19 10-19-2020  
2020-20   9-8-2020   Local cure program
R-2020-20 11-16-2020  
                     Collective bargaining agreement with Policemen's
2020-21   10-5-2020  Benevolent Labor Committee
                     TSO VII
R-2020-21 11-16-2020 TSO VII
2020-22   10-5-2020  Prohibiting burning of leaves and yard waste
                     50.045, 50.046, 50.999
R-2020-22 12-21-2020  
                     Refuse and recyclable material collection contract with
2020-23             Republic Services
                      
                     Superseded by Ord. 2020-24
R-2020-23 12-21-2020  
                     Refuse and recyclable material collection contract with
2020-24   10-19-2020 Republic Services
                      
                     TSO VII
2020-25   11-2-2020  Sale of surplus vehicles and equipment
                     TSO V
2020-26   11-16-2020 Tax abatement
2020-27   12-7-2020  Tax levy
                    
 
 
2021 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2021-01   2-16-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-01 2-1-2021    
2021-02   3-1-2021   35.090 - 35.092
R-2021-02 2-1-2021    
2021-03   3-15-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-03 4-5-2021    
2021-04   4-5-2021   TSO IX
R-2021-04 4-5-2021   TSO VII
2021-05   4-19-2021  Ch. 37, App. A
R-2021-05 4-19-2021   
2021-06   5-3-2021   TSO VII
R-2021-06 5-17-2021  TSO VII
2021-07   6-7-2021   111.01 - 111.16
R-2021-07 6-7-2021   TSO VI
2021-08   6-7-2021   154.155 - 154.161
R-2021-08 6-7-2021   TSO VI
2021-09             Rescinded, replaced by 2021-18
R-2021-09 6-21-2021  TSO VI
2021-10   6-7-2021   TSO IX
R-2021-10 6-21-2021  TSO VI
2021-11   6-16-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-11 6-21-2021  TSO VI
2021-12   6-16-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-12 6-21-2021  TSO VII
2021-13   6-16-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-13 7-19-2021   
2021-14             number not used
R-2021-14 8-3-2021    
2021-15   7-6-2021   TSO VII
R-2021-15 8-2-2021   TSO VII
2021-16   6-21-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-16 8-2-2021   TSO VII
2021-17   7-6-2021   Annual appropriation ord.
R-2021-17 8-2-2021   TSO VI
2021-18   8-2-2021   116.017, 116.026
R-2021-18 9-7-2021   TSO VI
2021-19   8-16-2021  TSO III
R-2021-19 9-7-2021   TSO VII
2021-20   8-16-2021  Business district hearing
R-2021-20 9-7-2021   TSO VII
2021-21   9-7-2021   37.45 - 37.47
R-2021-21 9-7-2021   TSO VII
2021-22   9-7-2021   51.03
R-2021-22 9-20-2021   
2021-23   10-20-2021 Business improvement district
R-2021-24 9-20-2021  TSO VII
R-2021-25 9-20-2021  TSO VII
                     TIF Interested Parties Registry Registration Rules
2021-24   10-4-2021   
                     36.001
2021-25   10-18-2021 TIF Redevelopment Plan and Project
                     Special Use Permit: Adult-use cannabis dispensary
2021-26   11-1-2021   
                     TSO X
                     Special Use Permit: Truck Light-maintenance facility
2021-27   11-1-2021   
                     TSO X
2021-28   11-1-2021  Temporary Use: Drive thru coffee shop
2021-29             number not used
2021-30   12-6-2021  Tax Abatement
2021-31   12-6-2021  Annual Tax Levy
2021-32   12-6-2021  Dissolving TIF District #1
2021-33   12-20-2021 TIF Redevelopment plan and project
2021-34   12-20-2021 Designating Troy Downtown TIF redevelopment project area
2021-35   12-20-2021 Adopting TIF
                     Prohibiting use of groundwater as potable water supply
2021-36   12-20-2021  
                     52.019
R-2021-26 10-4-2021  Feasibility study
R-2021-27 10-4-2021  Reimburse redevelopment project costs
R-2021-28 10-18-2021 Review of closed session minutes for period ending
                     September 30, 2021
R-2021-29 11-15-2021 Payment of redevelopment project costs and obligations
                     from special tax allocation fund #1
                     Purchase agreement with Bruce Langdon
R-2021-30 12-6-2021   
                     TSO VI
R-2021-31 12-20-2021 Approving street closures for Memorial Day parade
R-2021-32 12-20-2021 ACT Community Action Grants
R-2021-33 12-20-2021 Rebuild Downtowns and Main Streets Capital Grant
                     Highway authority agreement
R-2021-34 12-20-2021  
                     TSO VII
                    
 
 
2022 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                     Amending Sewer fees
2022-01   1-18-2022   
                     Ch. 37, App. A
                     Intergovernmental agreement between Tri-Township Park
2022-02   2-7-2022   District and City of Troy
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Non-highway vehicle regulations
2022-03   2-7-2021    
                     70.80 - 70.83, 70.99
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement
2022-04   2-22-2022   
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement
2022-05   2-22-2022   
                     TSO VIII
R-2022-01 2-1-2022   Maintenance for Highway
                     TIF with EGG Development LLC
R-2022-02 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VII
                     Master Services Agreement with Core & Main LP
R-2022-03 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VII
                     Agreement for software as service agreement with Sensus
R-2022-04 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VII
                     Agreement for professional services with TWM, Inc.
R-2022-05 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VII
R-2022-06 1-18-2022  Madison County Building & Zoning for FY 2022 Environment
                     Grant
                     Acceptance of Final Plat for Hampton Glen, Phase 5
R-2022-07 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VI
                     Acceptance of Final Plat for Hampton Glen, Phase 6
R-2022-08 1-18-2022   
                     TSO VI
R-2022-09 2-7-2022   Execute task order #1 - Phase 1 WWTP upgrades and northern
                     interceptor design with TWM, Inc.
R-2022-10           Cancelled
                     East West Gateway Council of Governments for a Surface
R-2022-11 2-7-2022   Transportation Program - Riggin Road from Zenk Road to
                     Bouse Road
                     East West Gateway Council of Governments for a Surface
R-2022-12 2-7-2022   Transportation Program - Bouse Road from Old Troy Road to
                     500' east of Whitworth Drive
R-2022-13 3-21-2022  Acceptance of the 2022 official zoning map
                     Permanent easement agreement with Evangelical Friedens
R-2022-14 3-21-2022  Gemeinde
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Permanent easement agreement with City of the Hill
R-2022-15 3-21-2022  Ministries
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Permanent easement agreement with Sean and Elizabeth Owens
R-2022-16 3-21-2022   
                     TSO VIII
                     Agreement with Pyrotecnico to provide Fourth of July
R-2022-17 4-4-2022   fireworks
                      
                     TSO VIII
R-2022-18 4-4-2022   Application for CDBG funds for Detention basi expansion at
                     Bargraves Boulevard
R-2022-19 4-4-2022   Fair Housing resolution
R-2022-20 4-4-2022   Americans with Disabilities Transition Plan
                     Intergovernmental Agreement with Jarvis Township
R-2022-22 4-18-2022   
                     TSO VIII
R-2022-24 5-2-2022   Review of closed session minutes for period ending March
                     31, 2022
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (207 Hazel St)
2022-06   3-21-2022   
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement
2022-07   3-21-2022  (5 Traci Ann Ct)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (528 Coventry)
2022-08   3-21-2022   
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (9008 N. Blue
2022-09   3-21-2022  Haven Dr)
                      
                     TSO VIII
2022-10   3-21-2022  Amending Ord 2014-23 to expand territory and add
                     incentives to Madison County Discovery Enterprise Zone
2022-11   3-21-2022  Revising schedule of fees
                     Special Use permit
2022-12   4-4-2022    
                     TSO X
                     Collective bargaining agreement with Troy Dispatchers and
2022-13   4-18-2022  Policemen's Benevolen Labor Committee
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Supplementary Off-Street Parking and Loading regulations
2022-14   4-18-2022   
                     154.005, 154.080 - 154.089, 154.090
                     Intergovernmental Agreement with Illinois Office of the
                     Comptroller for obtaining access to Local Debt Recovery
R-2022-25 5-16-2022  Program
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-15   6-6-2022   agreement (9 Rachael Court)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-16   6-6-2022   agreement (68 Lake Shore)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-18   6-6-2022    
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-20   6-6-2022    
                     TSO VIII
                     Amending City Council Ordinance, Chapter 31
2022-21   6-6-2022    
                     31.03, 31.06, 31.10, 31.13, 31.33, 31.36
R-2022-26 6-6-2022   Executing Bid Day Representative form with Good Energy
                     Executing service agreement for supply of electricity for
R-2022-27 6-6-2022   residential and small commercial retail customers
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Amending Zoning Ordinance pertaining to Old Town - C-
2022-22   6-20-2022  4 Zoning District
                      
                     154.020, 154.033
R-2022-28 6-20-2022  Adopting bicycle and pedestrian master plan
2022-23   7-5-2022   Annual Appropriation
                     Authorizing purchase of three license plate reader (LPR)
R-2022-29 7-5-2022   devices, to include installation, from Utilitra
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-24   7-18-2022  agreement (4 Sequoia Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-25   7-18-2022  agreement (29 Sequoia Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-26   7-18-2022  agreement (70 Lake Shore Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-27   7-18-2022  agreement (8572 Country Lake)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-28   7-18-2022  agreement (9003 & 9007 Blue Haven Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-29   8-1-2022    
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-30   8-15-2022   
                     TSO VIII
2022-31   8-15-2022  Amending zoning map
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-32   9-6-2022   agreement (13 Lake Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-33   9-6-2022   agreement (15 Willet Drive St. Jacob)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-34   9-6-2022   agreement (213 Willow Drive, Collingsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-35   9-6-2022   agreement (521 Coventry Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-36   9-6-2022   agreement (1105 Antler Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-37   9-19-2022  agreement (23 Lake Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-38   9-19-2022  agreement (41 Fox Creek)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-39   9-19-2022  agreement (112 Melanie Lane, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-40   9-19-2022  agreement (127 David Drive, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-41   9-19-2022  agreement (7401 Sunset Acres Drive, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Amending Garbage and Trash
2022-42   10-3-2022   
                     50.001, 50.045, 50.046
2022-43   10-3-2022  Amending utility tax
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-44   10-3-2022   
                     TSO VIII
2022-45   10-3-2022  Amending schedule of fees
2022-46   10-3-2022  Authorizing jurisdictional transfer of highway from Pin
                     Oak Township to the City of Troy
2022-47   10-3-2022  Authorizing jurisdictional transfer of highway from Pin
                     Oak Township to the City of Troy
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-48   10-17-2022 agreement (501 Coventry Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-49   10-17-2022 agreement (1226 Troy O'fallon Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-50   10-17-2022 agreement (1317 Bridlespur Lane)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-51   10-17-2022 agreement (2307 Timber Ridge Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-52   10-17-2022 agreement (8552 Country Lane)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-53   10-17-2022  
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-54   10-17-2022  
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and zoning certain territory
2022-55   10-17-2022  
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-56   11-7-2022  agreement (109 Dale Ave, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-57   11-7-2022  agreement (8552 Country 251 South Wilson Heights Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-58   11-7-2022  agreement (515 Coventry Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-59   11-7-2022  agreement (616 Woodland Court)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2022-60   11-7-2022  agreement (1067 K-A Acres Road)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Adding Ch 54: Construction of Utility Facilities
2022-61   11-7-2022   
                     54.01 - 54.99
                     Renewing existing franchise for 30 years to Ameren
2022-62   11-7-2022  Illinois
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2022-30 8-15-2022  Authorizing mayor to execure TIF redevelopment agreement
                     with PFUND Construction Company, Inc.
                     Authorizing mayor to sign project agreement with MEPRD to
R-2022-31 8-15-2022  extend Tri-Township Park trail to U.S. Senator Paul Simon
                     Park
                     Authorizing mayor to sign letter of support for Jarvis
R-2022-32 9-6-2022   Township's Illinois Transportation Enhancement Program
                     (ITEP) grant
                     Authorizing 2022/2023 budget adjustment to account for
R-2022-33 9-6-2022   water and sewer line upgrade expenses along East Clay
                     Street
                     Authorizing Mayor to apply for Illinois Transportation
R-2022-34 9-17-2022  Enhancement Program (ITEP) grant to enhance non-motorized
                     transportation along Market Street
R-2022-35 9-17-2022  Joint funding agreement with IDOT for Phase 2 and 3 of
                     Clay Street reconstruction project
R-2022-36 9-17-2022  Contract with Keller Construction, Inc., for Serenade Park
                     water feature playscape
R-2022-37 9-17-2022  Execution of change order with Landscape Structures Inc.,
                     for Serenade Park pool system
R-2022-38 10-17-2022 Joint funding agreement with IDOT for Phase 2 and 3 of
                     Clay Street reconstruction project
R-2022-39 10-17-2022 Review of closed session minutes
                     Authorizing 2022/2023 budget adjustment to MFT to account
R-2022-40 10-17-2022 for non-budgeted final bill from IDOT for 3/25/15
                     agreement to improve South Main Street
R-2022-41           Cancelled
R-2022-42 10-17-2022 Granting a variance
2022-63   11-21-2022 Tax abatement levied to pay principal of and interest on
                     general obligation bonds series 2016
2022-64   11-21-2022 Annual Tax Levy
2022-65             Cancelled; replaced by 2023-01
                     Directing First Collinsville Bank to issue irrevocable
R-2022-43 11-7-2022  letter of credit to Ameren Illinois regarding placement of
                     LPR devices on Ameren power poles
                     Entering into an electrical and natural gas supply
R-2022-44 11-7-2022  agreement for city owned accounts
                     TSO VII
                     Authorizing membership in the Illinois Municipal League
                     Risk Management Association and authorizing execution of
R-2022-45 11-21-2022 an intergovernmental cooperation contract
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Acceptance/rejection of final plat (Serenade Phase 2)
R-2022-46 12-5-2022   
                     TSO VI
R-2022-47 12-5-2022  Requesting CY2023 disbursement of motor fuels tax funds
R-2022-48 12-19-2022 Acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat
 
 
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2023-01   1-17-2023  Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (2466 Formosa
                     Road)
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-02   1-17-2023  agreement (20 Doug Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-03   1-17-2023  agreement (93 Red Coach Lane)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-04   1-17-2023  agreement (245 S Wilson Heights Road, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-05   1-17-2023  agreement (8426 Steelecrest Ln.)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-06   1-17-2023  agreement (8806 Country Ln.)
                      
                     TSO VIII
2023-07             not approved by Council
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-08   2-21-2023  agreement (4 Parklane Dr.)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-09   2-21-2023  agreement (125 Oakland Dr.)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing execution of water service and pre-annexation
2023-10   2-21-2023  agreement (2040 Grandview Dr., St. Jacob)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (305 Arrowhead
2023-11   2-21-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (505 Arrowhead
2023-12   2-21-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (507 Bliss Lane &
2023-13   2-21-2023  502 E. Center St.)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (2401 Staunton
2023-14   2-21-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Granting a special use
2023-15   3-20-2023   
                     TSO X
                     Amending zoning map
2023-16   3-20-2023   
                     TSO IX
                     Amending zoning map
2023-17   3-20-2023   
                     TSO IX
                     Amending City Treasurer compensation
2023-18   4-3-2023    
                     32.081
                     Authorizing City to enter into and the mayor to execure an
2023-19   4-17-2023  employment agreement between City and Jay Keeven
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Authorizing City to enter into and the mayor to execure an
2023-20   4-17-2023  employment agreement between City and Bob Hancock
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Granting a special use
2023-21   4-17-2023   
                     TSO X
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (95 West Lake Dr)
2023-22   5-15-2023   
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (204 Arrowhead Dr)
2023-23   5-15-2023   
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (711 Cheshire Road)
2023-24   5-15-2023   
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain Territory (southerly 350 feet
                     of a vacant tract with PID 09-1-22-10-00-000-006)
2023-25   5-15-2023   
                     TSO VIIIVII","L:\IL\Troy\Folio\S-10 web\troy_il.nfo">TSO
                     VII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (10 Rachael
2023-26   6-5-2023   Court)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (76 West Lake
2023-27   6-5-2023   Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (201 Willow
2023-28   6-5-2023   Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (206 Hazel
2023-29   6-5-2023   Street)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (206 Willow
2023-30   6-5-2023   Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (625 Buckingham
2023-31   6-5-20203  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (627 East Hwy
2023-32   6-5-2023   40)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (2100 Kennedy
2023-33   6-5-2023   Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain property (81 +/- acres on
                     Schmalz Road commonly known as Schmalz Road Subdivision
2023-34   6-5-2023   consisting of six adjoining lots and outlot A)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Authorizing establishment of a Tax Increment Financing
2023-35   6-5-2023   "interested parties" registries and adopting registration
                     rules for these registries
2023-36   6-19-2023  Annual appropriation ordinance
                     Annexing and Zoning certain property (Stonebriar
2023-37   6-19-2023  Subdivision and Stonebriar Manors
                      
                     TSO VIII
2023-38             not approved by Council
2023-39   6-19-2023  Date for public hearing for Tax Increment Financing
                     Redevelopment Plan and Project
                     Annexing and Zoning certain property (8740 State Route 162
2023-40   7-3-2023   with PIN # 09-2-22-10-20-401-001)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Annexing and Zoning certain property (seven tracts of
                     ground comprising Triad High School at 703 E. US Higway
2023-41   7-17-2023  40)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Granting a special use on a specific parcel (203 E.
2023-42   8-7-2023   Highway 40)
                      
                     TSO X
                     Amending Ch. 154 Zoning pertaining to Neighborhood
2023-43   8-7-2023   Commercial C-1 Zoning District
                      
                     154.005, 154.020, 154.031, 154.033, 154.084
                     Annexing and Zoning certain property (Shadow Wood
2023-44   8-7-2023   Subdivision)
                      
                     TSO VIII
2023-45   8-21-2023  Approving the Troy Formosa Tax Increment Financing
                     Redevelopment Project Area
2023-46   8-21-2023  Designating the Troy Formosa Tax Increment Financing
                     Redevelopment Project Area
2023-47   8-21-2023  Adopting Tax Increment Financing
                     Authorizing City to enter into and Mayor to execute
2023-48   9-18-2023  employment agreement between City of Troy and Chris Wasser
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Adding Floodplain management
2023-49   9-18-2023   
                     Adding 157.01 - 157.13, 157.99
                     Amending a Planned Development Final Development Plan to
2023-50   9-18-2023  change the use of a certain lot from a two-family to a
                     single-use family (1924 Gliddon Boulevard Lot D29)
                     Approving an amendment to the official Zoning Map changing
                     the zoning designation of real estate owned by Shadow Wood
2023-51   9-18-2023  Development LLC from R-1 to PD-R
                      
                     TSO IX
                     Designating a portion of North Kimberlin St between East
2023-52   10-2-2023  Market St and East Clay St as one-way
                      
                     TSO III
                     Denying an amendment to the Zoning Map changing the zoning
                     designation of real estate owned by the Myrna L. Steele
2023-53   10-16-2023 Revocable Living Trust from R-1 Single-Family Residential
                     to R-2 Two-Family Residential
                      
                     TSO IX
                     Denying a special use on a specific parcel (7725 Plummer
2023-54   10-16-2023 Business Drive)
                      
                     TSO X
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (9 Zachary
2023-55   11-6-2023  Court)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (39 Bullseye
2023-56   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (63 Lake Shore
2023-57   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (103 Willow
2023-58   11-6-2023  Drive, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (110 Melanie
2023-59   11-6-2023  Lane, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (164 Oakland
2023-60   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (lots 20-24 at
2023-61   11-6-2023  230 South Wilson Heights Road, Collinsville)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (212 Michael
2023-62   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (236 Michael
2023-63   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Water service and pre-annexation agreement (252 Michael
2023-64   11-6-2023  Drive)
                      
                     TSO VIII
                     Permitting Sam Myers to vacate a 153.18 foot portion of
                     unimproved right-of-way alley at 313 Montgomery Street
2023-65   11-6-2023  with PINs 09-1-22-04-20-401-020 and 09-2-22-04-20-401-022
                      
                     TSO III
                     Amending Zoning Map changing zoning designation of real
                     estate owned by Osborn Development, LLC from I-1 Light
2023-66   11-20-2023 Industry to R-2 Two-Family Residential (2247 Formosa Road)
                      
                     TSO IX
                     Approving special use on specific parcels (dog boarding
2023-67   11-6-2023  kennel) at 7721/7725 Plummer Business Drive)
                      
                     TSO X
2023-68   11-20-2023 Illinois Paid Leave for All Workers Act
2023-69   12-18-2023 Approving annual tax levy
2023-70             not approved by Council
                     Amending Ch 113: Amusments re: Video Gaming
2023-71   12-18-2023  
                     113.01
                     Amending Ch. 116: Alcoholic Beverages: Classes of Licenses
2023-72   12-18-2023 established
                      
                     116.017
                     Acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat (Carrington
R-2023-01 1-17-2023  Farms)
                      
                     TSO VI
R-2023-02           Rescinded by R-2023-07
                     Acceptance/rejection of a final plat (Stonemriar Manor -
R-2023-03 1-17-2023  Phase 2)
                      
                     TSO VI
                     Acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat (Troy Town
R-2023-04 1-17-2023  Centre, First Addition)
                      
                     TSO VI
                     Agreement with Oates Associates to provide construction
                     engineering services for the Clay Street Phases 2 and 3
R-2023-05 1-17-2023  projects
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-06 2-6-2023   Approving property tax abatement for Pete's Market
R-2023-07 2-6-2023   Approving property tax abatement for Creative Blow Bold
                     Tooling
R-2023-08 2-6-2023   Approving property tax abatement
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a deed of easement and right
R-2023-09 2-6-2023   of way for utilities, ingress and egress
                      
                     TSO IV
R-2023-10 2-6-2023   Authorizing Mayor to execute a memorandum of understanding
                     (Bohnenstiehl property)
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a development agreement with
R-2023-11 2-6-2023   Osborn Development, LLC
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a donation agreement with
                     Osborn Development, LLC (Formosa Road right of way parcel
R-2023-12 2-6-2023   number 1 of 2)
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a donation agreement with
                     Osborn Development, LLC (Formosa Road right of way parcel
R-2023-13 2-6-2023   number 2 of 2)
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-14 2-6-2023   Support and commitment of local funds (Surface Allocation
                     Program - Suballocated STP-S grant)
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute an agreement for engineering
                     with RTM Engineering Consultants for ornamental lighting
R-2023-15 2-6-2023   and burying utilities on Market Street from Main Street to
                     Hickory Street
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Approving final plat for Homes at Liberty Place - Phase 3
R-2023-16 2-21-2023  (residential lots 209-249)
                      
                     TSO VI
R-2023-17 3-6-2023   Amending City's Personnel Policy
                     Agreement with Lochmueller Group to provide design
R-2023-18 3-16-2023  engineering services for Old Troy Road Roundabout Phase II
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-19 3-20-2023  Acceptance of 2023 official zoning map
R-2023-20 3-20-2023  Adopting preliminary development plan for Planned
                     Development-Residential (PD-R) known as Belle Rose Manor
                     Authorizing City Administrator to execute an agreement
R-2023-21 4-17-2023  with Pyrotecnico to provide July 4 fireworks
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-22 4-17-2023  Amending City's Personnel Policy
R-2023-23 5-1-2023   Review of closed session minutes held by City Council for
                     period ending April 3, 2023
                     Agreement with Moran Economic Development for professional
                     services concerning the development of a Tax Increment
R-2023-24 5-1-2023   Financing District
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Athorizing execution of a Tax Increment Financing
R-2023-25 5-15-2023  Redevelopment Agreement with Eric and India Johnson
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute an agreement with FGM
                     Architects for professional services of a planning study
R-2023-26 5-15-2023  regarding City's police and general administrative
                     facilities
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-27 6-5-2023   Feasibility study on the designation of areas as
                     redevelopment project areas
R-2023-28           not approved by Council
R-2023-29 7-3-2023   Executing memorandum of understanding (Cole Property)
R-2023-30 7-3-2023   Approving a property tax abatement
R-2023-31 8-7-2023   Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with GRP Wegman
                     Company concerning guaranteed energy savings contract
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute joint funding agreement with
                     Illinois Department of Transportation regarding a US-40
R-2023-32 8-7-2023   shared use path from South Main Street to Creekside Drive
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-33 8-7-2023   Improvement under Illinois Highway Code
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with Illinois
                     Department of Transportation for a joint funding agreement
R-2023-34 8-21-2023  regarding roadway improvement for Formosa Road from
                     Illinois Route 162 to 330 feet north of Spring Mill Drive
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-35 9-18-2023  Regarding acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat (West
                     Wind Villas)
                     Adopting preliminary development plan for a planned
R-2023-36 9-18-2023  development - residential (PD-R) known as Shadow Wood
                     Phase 3
R-2023-37 10-2-2023  Requesting IDOT approval of street closures for the 2023
                     Veterans Day parade
                     Executing a temporary construction easement agreement with
R-2023-38 10-2-2023  Lee Walter and Della Mae Bollinger
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement and permanent
                     easement agreement with Kerry M Gaultney and Debbie Myers
R-2023-39 10-2-2023  Gaultney
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement and permanent
R-2023-40 10-2-2023  easement agreement with Eric and Kathleen Harr
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement agreement with
R-2023-41 10-2-2023  Deven Michael and Leanne Morgan Hillier
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement agreement with
R-2023-42 10-2-2023  Lindow Properties LLC
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement and permanent
                     easement agreement with Sheila Mikes, as legal power of
R-2023-43 10-2-2023  attorney for Robert Matthews
                      
                     TSO VII
                     Executing a temporary construction easement and permanent
R-2023-44 10-2-2023  easement agreement with Chad Spealman
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-45 10-18-2023 Concerning review of closed session minutes held by City
                     Council for period ending September 30, 2023
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement with member
R-2023-46 11-6-2023  agencies of the Water and Wastewater Agency Response
                     Network (ILWARN)
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute agreement for PE services
                     with Oates Associates and Appraisal services with DJ
R-2023-47 11-20-2023 Howard and Associates, Inc.
                      
                     TSO VII
R-2023-48 12-4-2023  Maintenance under Illinois Highway Code
                     Designating a portion of North Kimberlin Street as One-Way
R-2023-52 10-2-2023   
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                    
 
 
2024 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2024-01   1-2-2024   Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (727 East US
                     Hwy 40)
2024-02   1-2-2024   Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (8450 County
                     Lane)
2024-03   1-2-2024   Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (1501 and
                     1515 Formosa Road)
2024-04   1-16-2024  Amending zoning map
2024-05   2-5-2024   Creating Title II (Assistant Chief of Police)
                     Add: 35.045
2024-06   2-5-2024   Amending Title II (Chief of Police)
                     35.035
2024-07   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement (1
                     Matthew Allen Court)
2024-08   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (15 Lake Drive)
2024-09   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (11 David Drive, St. Jacob)
2024-10   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (23 David Drive, St. Jacob)
2024-11   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (81 West Lake Drive)
2024-12   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (618 East Brentmoor Drive)
2024-13   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (2306 Timber Ridge Road)
2024-14   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (2407 Timber Creek, St. Jacob)
2024-15   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (7912 Collinsville Road)
2024-16   3-18-2024  Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (9017 State Route 162)
2024-17   4-15-2024  Amending ordinance regarding livestock animals
                     90.06
                     Authorizing mayor execution of and city entering
2024-18   5-6-2024   collective bargaining agreement with Policemen's
                     Benevolent Labor Committee
2024-19   5-6-2024   Authorizing mayor/city entering collective bargaining
                     agreement with Dept. of Public Works and IAMAW
                     Authorizing mayor/city entering collective bargaining
2024-20   5-6-2024   agreement with supervisory unit of Dept. of Public Works
                     and IAMAW
2024-21   5-6-2024   Extention of boundary line agreement with Glen Carbon
                     Amending sections of Title III: local liquor control
2024-22   5-6-2024   commissioner and FOIA officer
                     32.039, 32.126, Repeal: 38.001-38.007
2024-23   5-6-2024   Abatment of tax
2024-24   5-20-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (208
                     Arrowhead Drive)
2024-25   5-20-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (209
                     Hazel street)
2024-26   5-20-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (704
                     Chesire Road)
2024-27   5-20-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (8408
                     county Lane)
2024-28   5-20-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (8734
                     State Route 162)
2024-29   5-20-2024  Special use zoning code (320 E. Center Street)
2024-30   5-20-2024  Temporary use permit zoning code (fireworks stand 107
                     McDonald Drive)
2024-31   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (97 Red Coach Lane)
2024-32   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (1303 Access Road)
2024-33   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (1306 Bridlespur Lane)
2024-34   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (8432 Steelecrest Lane)
2024-35   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (8436 Steelecrest Lane)
2024-36   6-3-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (8439 Steelecrest Lane)
                     Amending section of Title III, Ch. 32, Officers, Employees
2024-37   6-17-2024  and Other Workers
                      
                     32.051
                     Authorizing mayor for execution of and city entering
2024-38   6-17-2024  collective bargaining agreement with Policemen's
                     Benevolent Labor Committee
                     Installing stop signs
2024-39   6-17-2024   
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2024-40   6-17-2024  Authorizing city to borrow funds from Water Pollution
                     Control Loan Program
2024-41   7-1-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (1200 Norman D Acres Road)
2024-42   7-1-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (1208 Norman D Acres Road)
2024-43   7-1-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (2100 Kennedy Drive)
2024-44   7-1-2024   Execution of water service and pre-annexation agreement
                     (4112 Antler Point)
2024-45   7-1-2024   Installing stop signs
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
2024-46             Rescinded and replaced by 2024-51
                     Amending Ch. 131, Offenses Against Property, Public Health
2024-47   8-5-2024   and Safety
                      
                     Add 131.34
2024-48   8-5-2024   Adopting zoning hearing officer's decision granting EJ
                     Equipment at 1920 Formosa Road Variance 2024-02ZHO
2024-49   8-5-2024   Annual appropriation ordinance
                     Amending Title XI, Ch. 116, Alcohol Beverages
2024-50   8-5-2024    
                     116.017
                     Amending Ch. 111, Solicitors, Transient Vendors and
2024-51   8-5-2024   Peddlers
                      
                     Chapter 111
2024-52   8-19-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (49 Lake
                     Drive)
2024-53   8-19-2024  Annexing and Zoning territory to and in city (514 East
                     Center Street)
2024-54   8-19-2024  Amending zoning map
                     Ord. designating Wynona St. as one-way
2024-55   9-16-2024   
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                     Amending Ch. 154 Zoning Ordinance and Ch. 155 Sign
                     Regulations pertaining to the establishment of the town
2024-56   9-16-2024  center mixed-use - C-5 zoning district
                      
                     Chapter 154; Chapter 155
                     Amending Business Regulations regarding Special Events
2024-57   10-7-2024   
                     Adding Chapter 119
                     Rescinded and replaced by 2024-58
                     Amending Business Regulations regarding Special Events
2024-58   11-4-2024   
                     Adding Chapter 119
                     Amending Fee Schedule
2024-59   11-4-2024   
                     Ch. 37, Appendix A
2024-60   11-18-2024 Providing for the installation of a stop sign at Sarah
                     Street and Wickliffe Street
2024-61   12-2-2024  Tax levy
2024-62   12-2-2024  Abating tax levied to pay general obligation bonds, series
                     2016
                     Amending Zoning Ordinance pertaining to the establishment
2024-63   12-16-2024 of Short-Term Rentals
                      
                     Adding 154.069
                     Amending Comprehensive Plan
2024-64   12-16-2024  
                     150.01
R-2024-01 1-16-2024  Support and commitment of local funds (road
                     reconstruction)
R-2024-02 1-16-2024  Support and commitment of local funds (storm sewer
                     improvements)
R-2024-03 1-16-2024  Support and commitment of local funds (road
                     reconstruction)
R-2024-04 1-16-2024  Authorized continued support of Americans With Disabilites
                     Act transition plan
R-2024-05 1-16-2024  City council resolution accept/reject preliminary plat
R-2024-06 1-16-2024  Fair Housing
R-2024-07 3-18-2024  Authorizing mayor to execute agreement for PE Services
                     with Oates Associates
                     Service agreement w/ Homefield Energy and city consultant
R-2024-08 3-18-2024  for supplying electricity to residential and small
                     commercial retailers who do not opt out
R-2024-09 3-18-2024  2024 Official Zoning Map
R-2024-10 3-18-2024  City administrator to execute memorandum to extend
                     existing agreement between IAMAW and city
R-2024-11 4-1-2024   City administrator to execute agreement with Pyrotecnico
                     to provide 4th of July fireworks
R-2024-13           Rescinded
                     Authorizing Mayor to apply for "Park and Trail Grant
R-2024-14 5-20-2024  Program" grant from the Metro-East Park and Recreation
                     District (MERPD)
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement
R-2024-15 5-20-2024  with the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT)
                     regarding engineering for East Market Street streetscape
                     improvements
                     Authorizing Mayor to execute a joint funding agreement
R-2024-16 5-20-2024  with the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT)
                     regarding left turn lane construction on Troy-O'Fallon
                     Road at Country Lane
R-2024-17 5-20-2024  Intergovernmental Agreement with Jarvis Township
                     Authorizing mayor to execute street sign and support
R-2024-18 6-14-2024  agreement with Charleston Subdivision Home Owners
                     Association
R-2024-19 7-1-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a water tank maintenance
                     contract for services with Utility Service Co.
R-2024-20 7-1-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a water tank maintenance
                     contract for services with Utility Service Co.
R-2024-21           Rescinded and replaced by R-2024-23
R-2024-22 7-15-2024  Support and commitment of local funds
R-2024-23 7-1-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a joint funding agreement
                     with Dept. of Transportation
R-2024-24 8-5-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a quit claim deed to transfer
                     real property
R-2024-25 8-5-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a tax increment financing
                     redevelopment agreement with Larry Luebbers
R-2024-26 8-5-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a temporary construction
                     easement and permanent agreement
R-2024-27 8-5-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a temporary construction
                     easement agreement
R-2024-28 8-5-2024   Authorizing execution of maintenance agreement with CPO
                     Investments, LLC
R-2024-29 7-15-2024  Authorizing execution of donation agreement with CPO
                     Investments, LLC (Connor sanitary sewer easement)
                     Authorizing execution of donation agreement with CPO
R-2024-30 7-15-2024  Investments, LLC (Lindow Properties, LLC sanitary sewer
                     easement)
R-2024-31 8-5-2024   Resolution of city approving a final plat
R-2024-32 8-5-2024   Intergovernmental Agreement for contract police services
R-2024-33 9-3-2024   Resolution of city approving a final plat resubdivision of
                     Troy Town Centre
R-2024-34 9-3-2024   Authorizing mayor to execute a vacation of easement and
                     drainage easement for Waterford Place Industrial Park
R-2024-35 9-16-2024  Resolution supporting application to IL Transportation
                     Enhancement Program (ITEP) Grant
R-2024-36           Rescinded 8/4/2025
R-2024-37 10-21-2024 Reviewing closed session minutes for period ending
                     September 20, 2024
R-2024-38 10-21-2024 Approving street closures for the Veteran's Day parade
                     Authorizing mayor to execute an agreement/engineering
R-2024-39 10-21-2024 proposal for Value Engineering Review with benton &
                     Associates, Inc
R-2024-40 10-21-2024 Authorizing mayor to execute a Redevelopment Agreement
                     with Ridge Investment Group, LLC
R-2024-41 11-4-2024  Authorizing expenditure of tourism funds to support
                     advertising for the raffle of the Wish Home
R-2024-42 11-4-2024  Authorizing Mayor to execute permanent easement agreement
                     with Triad CUSD #2
R-2024-43 12-16-2024 Authorizing the Mayor to execute a Redevelopment Agreement
                     with Retail Place, LLC - SRS Distribution Center
                     Authorizing Mayor to enter into supplemental agreement
R-2024-44 12-16-2024 with Lochmueller Group to provide design engineering
                     services
                    
 
 
 
2025 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No.  Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2025-01   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (4 Hilltop Lane, Collinsville)
2025-02   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (6 Barley Drive)
2025-03   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (518 Coventry Road
2025-04   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (520 Coventry Road)
2025-05   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (1327 Antler Drive)
2025-06   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (2004 Kensington Place, St. Jacob)
2025-07   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (2032 Grandview Drive, St. Jacob)
2025-08   1-21-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (2033 Grandview Drive, St. Jacob)
2025-09   1-21-2025 Denying a special use permit (Cryptocurrency mining
                    operations warehouse at 1412 Alarth Drive)
                    Amending Zoning Map to change zoning designation from C-
2025-10   1-21-2025 2 to PD-R (The Forum: senior residential units on northwest
                    side of SrA Bradley R. Smith Drive)
                    Amending Ch. 92 to include identification of shared-use
2025-11   1-21-2025 path
                     
                    Adding 92.012
2025-12   2-3-2025  Denying variance 2025-01ZHO (1555 Troy O'Fallon Road)
2025-13   2-18-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (309
                    Arrowhead Drive)
2025-14   2-18-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (709
                    Huntley Court)
2025-15   2-18-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (7330
                    State Route 162)
2025-16            Not approved
                    Implementing a non-home rule municipal retailers'
2025-17   3-17-2025 occupational tax and non-home rule municipal service
                    opperational tax
2025-18   4-21-2025 Employment agreement between City and Chris Wasser
2025-19   5-5-2025  Purchase of land (220 Edwardsville Road)
                    Amending Ch. 32 and Ch. 38 regarding compensation of
2025-20   5-5-2025  employees (Liquor Control Commissioner and FOIA Officer)
                     
                    32.039; 32.126; Repealing Chapter 38
2025-21   5-5-2025  Employment agreement between City and Jay Keeven
2025-22   5-2-2025  Employment agreement between City and Rob Hancock
2025-23   5-19-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (37 Lake Drive, Troy)
2025-24   5-19-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (158 Pebblebrook Lake, Troy)
2025-25   5-19-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (7260 State Route 162, Troy)
2025-26   5-19-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (8403 Steelecrest Lane, Troy)
2025-27   5-19-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (643 East
                    US Highway 40)
2025-28   5-19-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (709 East
                    US Highway 40)
2025-29   6-2-2025  Jurisdictional transfer of certain highway from Madison
                    County to City of Troy
2025-30   6-16-2025 Annexing and Zoning territory in and around city (Parcel ID
                    09-1-22-10-03-301-036, owned by Patrick and Louise McDill)
                    Amending Ch. 154 regarding Temporary and Portable
2025-31   6-16-2025 Structures/Uses; and Temporary Use Permits
                     
                    154.024; 154.142
                    Amending Ch. 154 regarding Planned Development (PD) Overlay
2025-32   6-16-2025  
                    154.064
                    Adopting 2021 IBC, IFC, IMC, IPMC, IRC, IEBC, IFGC, ISPSC,
                    ILECC, National Electrical Code, IL Plumbin Code, IL
                    Accessibility Code
2025-33   6-16-2025  
                    151.002 - 151.007; 151.020 - 151.022; 151.030; 151.031;
                    151.040; 151.050; 151.051; 151.060; 151.061; 151.070;
                    151.071; 151.080; 151.081; 151.090; 151.091; 151.100;
                    151.100; 151.110; 151.111; 151.120; 151.130; 151.131;
2025-34   7-7-2025  Employment agreement between City and Josephine Byrd
                    Amending Zoning Map to change zoning designation from R-
2025-35   7-21-2025 1 to C-2 (4.5-acre tract on East Highway 40, owned by
                    Patrick and Louise McDill)
2025-36   7-21-2025 Annual Appropriation Ordinance
2025-37   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (113 A Dale Avenue, Collinsville)
2025-38   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (204 Hazel Street)
2025-39   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (216 Michael Drive)
2025-40   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (566 Berkshire Drive)
2025-41   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (1309 Bridlespur Lane)
2025-42   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (2015 Grandview Drive, St. Jacob)
2025-43   9-15-2025 Authorizing execution of a water service and pre-annexation
                    agreement (2021 Grandview Drive, St. Jacob)
                   
R-2025-01 1-21-2025 Support and commitment of local funds (STP-S Grant - Bouse
                    Road from Whitworth Drive to Formosa Drive improvement)
R-2025-02 1-21-2025 Support and commitment of local funds (TAP Grant - Shared-
                    Use Path on Troy O'Fallon Road)
R-2025-03 1-21-2025 Executing four (4) easement vacation plats for Troy Town
                    Centre
R-2025-04 1-21-2025 Executing Memoradum of Understanding (WG Real Estate, LLC
                    Right-of-Way)
R-2025-05 1-21-2025 Executing Memoradum of Understanding with International
                    Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
R-2025-06 1-21-2025 Adopting preliminary development plan for PD-R known as The
                    Forum
R-2025-07 1-21-2025 Agreement with Oates Associates to provide construction
                    engineering services
                    Executing agreement with Wireless USA for purchase and
R-2025-08 2-3-2025  installation of siren system to be added to existing siren
                    system network
R-2025-09 2-18-2025 Authorizing Intergovernmental agreement Illinois Public
                    Works Mutual Aid Network (IPWMAN)
R-2025-10 3-17-2025 Regarding acceptance/rejection of a final plat (Homes at
                    Liberty Place - Phase 4, Lots 250-291)
R-2025-11 3-17-2025 Regarding acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat (First
                    addition to Troy Town Centre)
                    Executing two (2) permanent and four (4) temporary
R-2025-12 4-7-2025  construction easements with Triad Cusd No. 2 to allow for
                    construction of the Silver Creek shared-use path from S.
                    Main Street to CA Henning school
R-2025-13 4-7-2025  Regarding acceptance/rejection of a final development plan
                    (Belle Rose LLC)
R-2025-14 4-7-2025  Regarding acceptance of the 2025 Official Zoning Map
R-2025-15 4-7-2025  Resolution for Maintenance under Illinois Highway Code
R-2025-16 4-21-2025 Review of closed session minutes for period ending March
                    31, 2025
R-2025-17 4-21-2025 Regarding acceptance/rejection of a preliminary plat
                    (Harvest Pointe, First Addition)
                    Execution of joint funding agreement with Illinois
R-2025-18 5-5-2025  Department of Transportation regarding a US-40 shared use
                    path from South Main Street to Creekside Drive
R-2025-19 6-2-2025  Regarding acceptance/rejection of a final plat (The Forum
                    Subdivision)
R-2025-20 6-16-2025 Executing right of way permitting agreement with I3
                    Broadband
                    Executing agreement/engineering proposal for facility plan
R-2025-21 7-7-2025  preparation and funding assistance with benton &
                    Associations, Inc.
R-2025-22 8-4-2025  Acceptance/Rejection of a final plat known as Harvest
                    Pointe 1st Addition
R-2025-23 8-4-2025  Acceptance/Rejection of a final plat known as First
                    Addition to Troy Town Centre
                    Authorizing the Mayor to execute a donation agreement with
R-2025-24 8-18-2025 Osborn Development, LLC (Outlot A- Harvest Pointe - First
                    Addition)
R-2025-25 9-2-2025  Approving and authorizing financial commitment in the safe
                    routes to school grant program
R-2025-26 9-2-2025  Adopting the 2025 Madison County Multi-Jurisdictional All
                    Hazards Mitigation Plan
R-2025-27 9-15-2025 Adopting an extension of the Planned Development -
                    Residential (PD-R) known as Shadow Wood Phase 3
R-2025-28 9-15-2025 Adopting an extension of the Preliminare plat known as
                    Waterford Villas
                   
                   
                   
                   
                   
 
 
