VIENNA, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 24-04, passed 9-4-2024; and
State legislation current through Illinois Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
VIENNA, ILLINOIS
Mayor, Steve Penrod
 
Ward I:
Melissa Hill, Alderman
Austin Tuey, Alderman
 
Ward II:
Tim Elliott, Alderman
Alan Racey, Alderman
 
Ward III:
Ron Pitts, Alderman
Angela Moore, Alderman
 
City Clerk, Aleatha Wright
 
APPOINTED POSITIONS
APPOINTED POSITIONS
Fire Chief             Brent Williams
Floodplain Coordinator Tim Elliot
City Superintendent    Shane Racey
Police Chief           Jim Miller
Mayor Pro-Tem          Ron Pitts
Treasurer              Michelle Meyers
City Attorneys         Rick Abell (Kruger and Abell law firm).
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 15-08
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF VIENNA, ILLINOIS
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF VIENNA
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the City of Vienna find that the
ordinances of the City of Vienna are currently inadequately arranged and
classified making it inefficient and unduly laborsome to research current
municipal law and regulation within the City of Vienna; and
   WHEREAS, Section 1-2-3 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-3)
empowers and authorizes the City of Vienna to revise, amend, restate, codify
and compile existing ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the City of Vienna have reviewed and
studied a draft codification of the ordinances of the City of Vienna and have
authorized a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances
of the City of Vienna; and
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the City of Vienna find that said
codification or comprehensive revision of the City’s ordinances represents an
accurate and complete statement or publication of the ordinances now in effect
in the City of Vienna, Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the City of Vienna find that the
public will be served by the adoption of a codification of its ordinances in
book form; and
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Vienna City Council and the Mayor of the
City of Vienna, Illinois:
   Section 1.   The ordinances of the City of Vienna as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and complied in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Vienna, Illinois.”
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
VIENNA, ILLINOIS TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   City Council
      31.   Employees and Officials
      32.   Organizations
      33.   Policies and Procedures
      34.   Public Safety
      35.   Tax and Finance
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   General Provisions
      51.   Garbage Disposal
      52.   Gas System
      53.   Water and Sewer
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Rules for Driving
      72.   Pedestrians
      73.   Parking Rules
      74.   Condition/Equipment of Vehicles
      75.   Drivers
      76.   Traffic Schedules
      77.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Abandoned Vehicles
      91.   Animals
      92.   Fair Housing
      93.   Fire Prevention
      94.   Nuisances
      95.   Parks and Recreation
      96.   Streets and Sidewalks
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Provisions
      111.   Solicitors and Peddlers
      112.   Various Businesses
      113.   Food Vendors
      114.   Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
      115.   Liquor Code
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Address Numbering
      151.   Dangerous Building Regulations
      152.   Floodplain Areas
      153.   Subdivisions
      154.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Annexations
      II.   Franchises
      III.   Land Usage
      IV.   Vacations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
   References to 1975 Code
   References to Resolutions
   References to Ordinances
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   That the City Clerk is authorized and directed to file a copy
of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk and shall cause copies of
the same to be made available to the public for inspection and copying at
Vienna City Hall.
   Section 5.   That this ordinance shall take effect 30 days after its
passage, approval, and publication as provided by law.
   Dated this 2nd day of September, 2015 pursuant to a roll call vote as
follows:
      Ayes: 6
      Nayes: 0
      Absent: 0
   APPROVED this 2nd day of September, 2015.
                            \s\ Jon Simmons   
                           Jon Simmons, Mayor
\s\ Aleatha Wright
City Clerk, Aleatha Wright
      I, Aleatha Wright, Clerk of the City of Vienna, Johnson County, Illinois,
do hereby certify that I am the legal custodian of the records and ordinances
of said City of Vienna; that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of
Ordinance 15-08 of said City of Vienna, being an Ordinance Enacting a Code of
Ordinances for the City of Vienna, Illinois Revising, Amending, Restating,
Codifying, and Compiling, Certain Existing Ordinances of the City of Vienna was
fully passed and approved by the City Council of said City of Vienna at a
meeting held on September 2, 2015; that the same was approved and signed by Jon
Simmons, Mayor of the City of Vienna and that said Ordinance is now in full
force and effect; all as appears from the records and file of said office.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of said City of Vienna this 2nd day of September, 2015.
                            \s\ Aleatha Wright
                           Althea Wright, Clerk for the
                           City of Vienna
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the City of Vienna shall be designated as the
code of Vienna, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CITY, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The City of Vienna,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Vienna.
   COUNTY. Johnson County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Johnson County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETO- FORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Vienna.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the City of
Vienna. POLICE FORCE shall be construed to include such persons in the employ
of a city as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS Act 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The city code hereby adopted, and as
hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new titles,
chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be: in the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or an electronic signature as defined
in the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act, 815 ILCS 333/1 et seq., except as
otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
City Council may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, in so far as they are the same as
those of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the city shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below.
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the City Council.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected, and the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to: tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the City
Council or a certain city officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the city. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this city
for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined not more
than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
34.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
35.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   City Council
   
30.02   Compensation
   
30.03   Vacancy
   
30.04   Regular meetings
   
30.05   Special meetings
   
30.06   Committees
   
30.07   Special committees
   
30.08   Quorum
   
30.09   Members refusing to attend
   
30.10   Rules
   
30.11   Ordinances
   
30.12   Seal
§ 30.01 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and six Aldermen, and their
terms of office shall be for four years and until their successors are elected
and have qualified.
(1975 Code, § 3.01)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-4-1
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION.
   Aldermen shall receive $50 per regular meeting of the City Council;
provided, however, a member shall not receive compensation for more than one
regular and/or special or committee meeting per week at the above rate. All
members shall be allowed two absences in each year for which compensation will
be paid, unless the absence is excused by the Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.02) (Ord. 08-11, passed 10-15-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-13-15
§ 30.03 VACANCY.
   A vacancy in the office of an Aldermen shall be filled for the remainder of
the term at the next election. During the period from the time that the vacancy
occurs until the next election of Aldermen, the vacancy may be filled by the
appointment of an Alderman by the Mayor and remaining Aldermen voting jointly.
(1975 Code, § 3.03)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-4-6
§ 30.04 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular stated meetings of the City Council shall be held at City Hall,
205 North 4th Street, on the first and third Wednesday of each month at 6:30
p.m. When said meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall be
held on Thursday, the following day, the same hour and place, unless otherwise
designated. Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as may be determined
by the Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.04) (Ord. 79-11A, passed 10-3-1979)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-13
§ 30.05 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any three
Aldermen, by giving at least 24 hours’ notice thereof, by delivering to their
residences, written or printed notices of the time of such meeting; such
notices shall be served by the Chief of Police, or his or her designated
representative.
(1975 Code, § 3.05)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-13 and Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 102, §§
42.02, 42.03
§ 30.06 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the City Council are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Ordinance;
      (2)   Finance;
      (3)   Street and Alleys;
      (4)   Utilities;
      (5)   Safety;
      (6)   Park; and
      (7)   Civic Improvement.
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed by the Mayor, bi-annually.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex officio Chairperson of each and every standing
committee.
   (D)   The first named Alderman of each committee shall be the acting
Chairperson, and in case of his or her absence or disability, the one next
shall act as Chairperson.
   (E)   So far as practicable, reports of committees shall be in writing.
   (F)   As provided by law, any report of a committee of the Council shall be
deferred, for final action thereon, to the next regular meeting of the same
after the report is made, upon the request of any two Aldermen present.
   (G)   Each standing committee of the City Council shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Department of municipal government with
which it is connected, shall ascertain the condition and needs of said
department, shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City
Council so that a full understanding thereof may be had, and, generally, shall
do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the department.
(1975 Code, § 3.06)
§ 30.07 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the advice and
consent of the Aldermen as may be needed from time to time.
(1975 Code, § 3.07)
§ 30.08 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of its members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and if no such quorum
attends such meeting of the Council, the Aldermen may adjourn from day to day
until a quorum is present; and shall have power to compel the attendance of
absent members, except when such members are physically unable to attend such
meetings.
(1975 Code, § 3.08)
Editor’s note:
   A quorum in Vienna’s code would be the Mayor and three Aldermen, or four
Aldermen
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-12
§ 30.09 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   (A)   Any member of the City Council who shall neglect or refuse to attend
any meeting of the City Council without good and sufficient excuse to be passed
upon by the City Council shall be fined the sum of $25 for failure to attend
such meeting.
   (B)   No member shall receive compensation for failure to attend said
meeting under the provisions of §
30.02.
(1975 Code, § 3.09)
Editor’s note:
   No procedure is set forth in the statutes for determining that a vacancy
exists. Where a true question exists as to the presence of a vacancy, a hearing
should be held before the vacancy is declared. A registered letter should be
sent to the last known address of the person whose office is in question.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-12, 65 ILCS 5/3-4-14
§ 30.10 RULES.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer;
         (b)   Roll call;
         (c)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the same, unless
dispensed with by the Aldermen and correction of the journal of the proceedings
of previous meetings;
         (d)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other city
officers;
         (e)   Reports of Standing Committees;
         (f)   Reports of Special Committees;
         (g)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders
and ordinances by the Aldermen;
         (h)   Unfinished business; and
         (i)   Miscellaneous business.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of the presiding officer. The presiding officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
members, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal. In case of
any disturbances or disorderly conduct, the presiding officer shall have the
power to require that the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Council Chamber. Every
member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion or seconding the same
shall not proceed with his or her remarks until recognized and named by the
chair. He or she shall confine himself or herself to the question under debate,
avoiding personalities, and refraining from impugning the motives of any other
member’s argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person, other than a member of the Council, shall address
that body, except with the consent of the majority of the members present.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk, who shall read such matter
when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate. No member shall speak more than once on the same question,
except by unanimous consent, and then not until every other member desiring to
speak shall have had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the
proponent of the matter under consideration as the case may be, shall have the
right to open and close debate. No member shall speak longer than ten minutes
at any one time, except by consent of the Council; and in closing debate on any
question, as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes,
except by special consent of the Council. While a member is speaking, no member
shall hold any private discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the chair.
   (G)   Call of members to order. A member, when called to order by the chair,
shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat, and the order or
ruling of the chair shall be binding and conclusive subject only to the right
to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the chair. Any member may appeal to the
Council from a ruling of the chair, and, if the appeal is seconded, the member
making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and the
chair may briefly explain his or her ruling, but there shall be no debate on
the appeal and no other member shall participate in the discussion. The chair
shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the chair be sustained?”.
If a majority of the members present vote “no”, the decision of the chair shall
be overruled; otherwise it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Council, or unless he
or she is personally interested in the question, in which case, he or she shall
not vote.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the City Council may be
set down as a special order of business at a time certain, if two-thirds of the
Aldermen present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the meeting, nor in committee unless it be seconded. When a
motion is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate,
and every motion in the Council, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced
to writing, if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Council, but
it may be withdrawn at any time before decision, by consent of the Council.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Aldermen, by a majority vote of the members
present may divide such question.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered
also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the votes; explanations of votes not permitted. If
any member requires it, the yeas and nays upon any question shall be taken and
entered in the journal; but the yeas and nays shall not be taken unless called
for prior to any vote on the question. When the Clerk has commenced to call the
roll of the Council for the taking of a vote by yeas and nays, all debate on
the question before the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the
taking of the vote, no member shall be permitted to explain his or her vote,
but shall respond to the calling of his or her name by the Clerk, by answering
yea or nay, as the case may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of vote. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (R)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (R)(1)(b), (R)(1)(d) and (R)(1)(e) to be decided without
debate.
   (S)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the city shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The City Council may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Aldermen authorized by law to be
elected.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question, and seconded, it shall be put on this form “Shall the main question
now be put?”. If such a motion be carried, all further amendments and all
further motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without
delay, upon the pending amendment in proper order, and then upon the main
question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion simply to lay the question on the table shall not be
debatable, but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition, shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motions or other proposition from the table
may be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was
laid upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Aldermen vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question, nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone, without any reference to time, shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature, and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order;
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “Strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (Z)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Aldermen, by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (AA)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case, a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (BB)   Adoption of Robert’s Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
Rules of Order revised shall govern the Council in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of
this Council.
   (CC)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of all Aldermen entitled by law
to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended, unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of all the Aldermen entitled by law to be elected.
   (DD)   Censure of members; expulsion of members. Any member acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Council, or who does not obey
the order of the chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of all
the members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all members elected.
(1975 Code, § 3.10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-11
§ 30.11 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the City Council shall, before they take
effect, be deposited in the office of the City Clerk, and if the Mayor approves
thereof, he or she shall sign the same, and such as he or she shall not
approve, he or she shall return to the Council, with his or her objection
thereto, in writing, at the next regular meeting of the Council occurring not
less than five days after the passage thereof. Such veto may extend to any one
or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance making an
appropriation, or to the entire ordinance, and in case the veto extends to a
part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect and be in force.
But in case the Mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with his or her
objections thereto, by the time aforesaid, he or she shall be deemed to have
approved such ordinance, and the same shall take effect accordingly.
   (B)   Upon the return of any ordinance by the Mayor, the veto by which the
same was passed, shall be reconsidered by the Council; and if, after such
recommendation, two-thirds of all members elected to the City Council shall
agree, by yeas and nays, to pass the same, it shall go into effect,
notwithstanding the Mayor may refuse to approve thereof. The vote to pass the
same over the Mayor’s veto shall be taken by yeas and nays, and entered on the
journal.
(1975 Code, § 3.11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-18
§ 30.12 SEAL.
   (A)   The seal provided by the Council, consisting of the word, “Seal”, with
the inscription, “City of Vienna, Illinois” around the outer edge of the seal,
shall be and hereby is established and declared to be the seal of the city. The
City Clerk shall be the custodian of the City Seal.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the city, and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
(1975 Code, § 3.12)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Elections
   
31.002   Regulations
   
31.003   Bonds of city officers
   
31.004   City offices consolidated
   
31.005   Contracts
   
31.006   Inauguration of officers
   
31.007   Salary
   
31.008   Claim presentation
   
31.009   Claim exception
   
31.010   Fiscal year
   
31.011   Municipal year
   
31.012   Time of commencement of terms of elected officers
   
31.013   City Collector
Mayor
   
31.025   Election
   
31.026   Vacancy
   
31.027   Duties
   
31.028   Appointment of officers
   
31.029   Removal of appointees
   
31.030   Designation of officers’ duties
   
31.031   Mayor Pro-Tem
   
31.032   Formal occasions
   
31.033   General duties
   
31.034   Release of prisoners
   
31.035   Business license
   
31.036   Liquor Commissioner
   
31.037   Health Commissioner
   
31.038   Examination of records
   
31.039   Deciding vote
   
31.040   Mayor’s salary
   
31.041   Mayoral nominations to appointed offices
City Clerk
   
31.055   Elected
   
31.056   Council minutes; records
   
31.057   Deputy Clerk
   
31.058   Papers
   
31.059   Commissions; licenses
   
31.060   Report of license
   
31.061   License
   
31.062   Submit appropriation to Council
   
31.063   Payroll
   
31.064   Outstanding bonds
   
31.065   Reports
   
31.066   Successor
   
31.067   Payments
   
31.068   Warrant register
   
31.069   Finance Committee
   
31.070   Notification to persons elected or appointed
   
31.071   Other duties
   
31.072   Utilities
   
31.073   Salary
Ethics Provisions
   
31.085   Definitions
   
31.086   Prohibited political activities
   
31.087   Gift ban
 
   
31.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Organizations, see
Chapter 32
   Tax and Finance, See
Chapter 35
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedures. The provisions of the 65 ILCS 5/3-2-1 et seq.,
and 10 ILCS, concerning municipal elections, shall govern the conduct of the
city elections.
   (B)   General election. A general election for municipal officers authorized
by law or ordinance to be elected, shall be held in the city on the third
Tuesday of April in the odd-numbered years, at such places in the city as may
be designated by law.
   (C)   Judges of election. The judges of the election shall qualify by being
sworn to discharge their duties according to law. Proposed judges shall be
submitted by the Council for Council approval at least one month prior to the
election.
   (D)   Voting hours. The judges of election shall keep the polls open during
the hours prescribed by law.
(1975 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.002 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Appointment. All appointive city officers shall hold their several
offices for the term of one year and until their successors are appointed and
have qualified.
   (B)   Offices vacated by removal. Any officer of the city who leaves the
city with the intention of permanently residing outside the limits thereof
shall be deemed to have vacated his or her office.
   (C)   Leaves of absence. Any officer desiring to be temporarily absent from
the city shall apply to the Mayor for a leave of absence, which may, in the
discretion of the Mayor, be granted in writing for any time, and when granted,
shall be filed with the Clerk.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor, all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to such office, and which are the property of the city.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor, or any committee or member of the Council.
   (F)   Fees. No officer of the city shall be entitled to charge or receive
any fees as against the city.
   (G)   Report of fees. All officers of the city, entitled to receive fees,
shall keep a correct account thereof, and make a report thereof, under oath, to
the City Council on the first Monday of each month. In the report, they shall
specify from whom such fees were received, for what service and when received.
All fees received shall be paid over into the City Treasury.
   (H)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
Council may provide by law.
   (I)   Conservators of peace. The Mayor, Aldermen, and police officers are
designated as conservators of the peace with power to make arrests as provided
by law.
   (J)   Delivery of records. Within five days after notification and request,
any person who has been an officer of a municipality is required to deliver to
his or her successor in office, all property, books and effects in his or her
possession, belonging to the municipality, or pertaining, to the office he or
she has held. Upon his or her refusal to do so, he or she shall be liable for
all damages caused thereby, and shall be, upon conviction penalized according
to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (K)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe the
following oath:
      “I, _________ do solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of
the United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of ___, according to the
best of my ability.”
   (L)   Qualification of officers. No person is eligible to hold an elected or
appointed city office who has not been a qualified voter of the municipality
and has not resided therein at least one year next preceding his or her
election or appointment, or who is a defaulter to the municipality.
      (1)   As provided in 65 ILCS 5/3-14-1, firefighters and police officers
are hereby allowed to reside outside of the corporate limits of the
municipality by which they are employed, both at the time of appointment and
while serving as firefighter and police officer.
      (2)   The residential requirements shall also not apply to health officer
and the City Superintendent of water, gas and streets and any other officers
who require technical training or knowledge.
(1975 Code, § 3.14)
Editor’s note:
   The test of residency in the municipality is physical presence at fixed
locations for one year and permanent intention to remain in the community
(People ex rel v. Tueffel, 334 111. App. 626)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-2, Ill. Rev. Stat. §§ 314-3, 3-9-4, 3-
14-2
§ 31.003 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bond of city officers, required under the 65 ILCS 5/3-14-
3 shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor: $3,000;
      (2)   City Clerk: $3,000; and
      (3)   City Treasurer: $5,000.
   (B)   Premium payment by city. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the city.
   (C)   Surety. The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the City Council, any one of the Aldermen or any
elected or appointed officers of the city appear as bondsman or security. If,
by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by the
City Council, or if any bondsman, after becoming such is elected or appointed
to any city office, this section shall not act as a release of any such
obligation incurred.
(1975 Code, § 3.15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 5 ILCS 270/1
§ 31.004 CITY OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the city, any such
other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of this state, and
may consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the duties thereof
upon any other officer, and may make any such regulations, respecting such
offices as shall be consistent with the laws of this state.
   (B)   In case the City Council consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if such consolidation had not taken
place.
(1975 Code, § 3.16)
§ 31.005 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts. All contracts for supplies, materials, equipment,
contractual services and labor shall be let as provided herein.
   (B)   Definitions. The terms SUPPLIES, MATERIALS and EQUIPMENT shall include
any and all articles and things which shall be furnished to or used by any
office, department, commission, agency or institution of the city. CONTRACTUAL
SERVICES shall include all purchases, leases and contracts for impersonal
services necessary for the operation of any office, department, commission,
agency or institution of the city which are not encompassed in the above
definition of “supplies, material and equipment”. The term LOWEST RESPONSIBLE
BIDDER does not mean the lowest bidder financially only, but shall mean the
bidder who by experience and other qualifications, is deemed most capable of
performing the work required in a satisfactory manner.
   (C)   Competitive bids; sealed bids; sale of obsolete equipment; contracts
not adapted to award by competitive bidding; government surplus materials. The
purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials, equipment and contractual
services shall be based on competitive bids. If the amount involved is
estimated to exceed $1,000, sealed bids shall be solicited by public notice
inserted at least once in a newspaper of county-wide circulation and at least
five calendar days before the final date of submitting bids. Such notices shall
include a general description of the commodities or contractual services to be
purchased and shall state the time and place for the opening of bids. The city
may also solicit sealed bids by sending requests by mail to prospective
suppliers and by posting notices on a public bulletin board in City Hall. All
purchases of $1,000 or less may be made in the open market without publication
in a newspaper as above provided, but whenever practical shall be based on at
least three competitive bids. All purchases, orders or contracts shall be
awarded to the lowest responsible bidder, taking into consideration the
qualities of the articles supplied, their conformity with the specifications,
their suitability to the requirements of the city and the delivery terms. All
bids may be rejected and new bids solicited if the public interest may be
served thereby. Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to award by
competitive bidding, such as contracts for the services of individuals
possessing a high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of
the individual plays an important part, contracts for the printing or engraving
of bonds, tax warrants and other evidences of indebtedness, contracts for
utility services such as water, light, heat, telephone or telegraph, contracts
for insurance, and contracts for the purchase of magazines, books, periodicals
and similar articles of an educational or instructional nature, and the binding
of such magazines, books, periodicals, pamphlets, reports and similar articles
shall not be subject to the competitive bidding requirements of this section.
The city is expressly authorized to procure from any federal, state or local
government unit or agency thereof such surplus materials, supplies, commodities
or equipment as may be made available through the operation of any legislation
heretofore or hereafter enacted without conforming to the competitive bidding
requirements of this section. Regular employment contracts in the city service,
shall not be subject to the provisions of this section, nor shall this section
be applicable to the granting or issuance pursuant to powers conferred, by
laws, ordinances or resolutions, of franchises, licenses, permits or other
authorizations by the City Council, or by departments, offices, institutions,
boards, commissions, agencies or other instrumentalities of the city, nor to
contracts or transactions, pursuant to which the city is the recipient of
money.
   (D)   Purchases in open market. The Mayor may authorize in writing any
office, department, institution or agency of the city government to purchase in
the open market without soliciting bids, any supplies, material or equipment
for immediate delivery to meet actual emergencies. A full written account of
the circumstances necessitating any such emergency purchase, shall be submitted
at once to the City Council. The records of such transactions shall be open to
public inspection.
(1975 Code, § 3.17) (Ord. 82-5, passed 4-21-1982)
§ 31.006 INAUGURATION OF OFFICERS.
   Be it ordained by the City Council that the terms of the elected municipal
officers of the city shall commence at the first regular or special meeting of
the corporate authorities during the month of May following the proclamation of
the results of the regular municipal election at which such officers were
elected.
(1975 Code, § 3.18)
§ 31.007 SALARY.
   No fee, salary or compensation of any municipal officer who is elected or
appointed for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished during
such term.
(1975 Code, § 3.19)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-13-1 et seq.
§ 31.008 CLAIM PRESENTATION.
   All claims against the city for goods purchased, damages or originating in
any other way, except for claims for salaries and other allowances that are
fixed by ordinance, must be presented on or before the last Monday of each
month to the City Clerk. All such claims must be in writing and items shall be
specified.
(1975 Code, § 3.20)
§ 31.009 CLAIM EXCEPTION.
   This section does not prohibit the City Council from passing on any claims,
not previously presented to the City Clerk, if in the opinion of the Council,
justice to the claimant requires it.
(1975 Code, § 3.21)
§ 31.010 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on May 1, and end on the following
April 30.
(1975 Code, § 3.22)
§ 31.011 MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The municipal year of the city shall begin on May 1, and end on the
following April 30.
(1975 Code, § 3.23)
§ 31.012 TIME OF COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS OF ELECTED OFFICERS.
   The terms of the elected municipal officers of the city shall commence at
the first regular or special meeting of the corporate authorities during the
month of May following the proclamation of the results of the regular municipal
election at which such officers were elected.
(Ord. 81-5, passed 3-18-1981)
§ 31.013 CITY COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The city hereby creates the position of City Collector.
      (1)   The City Collector shall preserve all warrants returned to the
collector and shall keep books and accounts in the manner prescribed by the
corporate authorities.
      (2)   When required by the corporate authorities, the City Collector
shall make a written report to the corporate authorities, or to any office
designated by the corporate authorities, of all money collected by the
Collector, the account on which collected, or any other official matter.
      (3)   The City Collector shall have any other duties and responsibilities
deemed appropriate by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council,
shall fill the position of City Collector by appointment. The term of
appointment shall coincide with the term of the Mayor making the appointment.
The Municipal Clerk may be appointed to hold the office of City Collector.
   (C)   The compensation for the position of collector shall be established by
the corporate authorities. If the Municipal Clerk is also appointed as
Collector, that person shall receive the compensation provided for both the
office of Clerk and Collector.
   (D)   The corporate authorities, by a two-thirds vote, may discontinue the
appointed office of Collector and devolve the duties of that office on any
other municipal officer. After discontinuance of the office of Collector, no
officer filling the office before its discontinuance shall have any claim
against the municipality for salary alleged to accrue after the date of
discontinuance.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 8-6-2014)
MAYOR
§ 31.025 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and has qualified.
(1975 Code, § 3.24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-4-4
§ 31.026 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy in the office of a Mayor occurs during his or her term,
the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next election
of Aldermen and during the period from the time that the vacancy occurs and
until a Mayor is elected, as provided in this section and has qualified, the
vacancy may be filled by the election of an acting Mayor by the Aldermen.
(1975 Code, § 3.25)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-4-6
§ 31.027 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, shall
preside over the meetings of the Council, and shall perform such duties as may
be required of him or her by statute or law.
   (B)   He or she shall have supervision over all of the executive officers
and employees of the city, and shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records pertaining to city affairs and kept by any officer or
employee of the city at any reasonable time.
(1975 Code, § 3.26)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-6, 65 ILCS 5/3-11-3
§ 31.028 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the City Council, all officers of the city whose election
or appointment is not otherwise provided for and shall hold their offices for
the ensuing month or year, and until their respective successors are appointed
and have qualified. Any vacancy occurring in an appointive office shall be
filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall issue a commission or certificate of
appointment to all persons appointed to office in the municipality.
(1975 Code, § 3.28)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-2, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, §§ 3-13-10,
3-14-2
§ 31.029 REMOVAL OF APPOINTEES.
   The Mayor may remove any officer appointed by him or her under this code, on
any formal charge, whenever he or she is of the opinion that the interests of
the city demand removal in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/3-11-1 and 65 ILCS 5/3-12-
2.
(1975 Code, § 3.29)
§ 31.030 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor,
after consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power
to delegate to any appointive officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1975 Code, § 3.30)
§ 31.031 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   (A)   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor which
incapacitates him or her from the performance of his or her duties, but does
not create a vacancy in the office, the Mayor shall appoint, and if he or she
cannot, the Aldermen shall appoint one of its members to act as Mayor Pro-Tem.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform
his or her duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor.
(1975 Code, § 3.31)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-7
§ 31.032 FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions, and
receptions, but in his or her absence or inability to attend any such function,
the Mayor may select any other city officer to so act.
(1975 Code, § 3.32)
§ 31.033 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law, and
shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
(1975 Code, § 3.33)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-4 and 65 ILCS 5/3-11-6
§ 31.034 RELEASE OF PRISONERS.
   The Mayor may release any person imprisoned for violation of any city
ordinance, and shall report the release with reasons therefor, to the Aldermen
at their first meeting thereafter.
(1975 Code, § 3.34)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-2
§ 31.035 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as License Commissioner to issue and revoke
any and all business licenses as prescribed by law.
(1975 Code, § 3.36)
§ 31.036 LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Liquor Commissioner with all the powers to
license and/or revoke any city liquor license, according to state and city
laws.
(1975 Code, § 3.37)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 235 ILCS 5/4-2
§ 31.037 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city authority as prescribed by law.
(1975 Code, § 3.38)
§ 31.038 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   The Mayor, at all times, may examine and inspect the books, records and
papers of any agent, employee or officer of the city.
(1975 Code, § 3.39)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-3
§ 31.039 DECIDING VOTE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council.
   (B)   He or she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion,
except where the vote of the Aldermen has resulted in a tie; or where one-half
of the Aldermen elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, resolution or
motion, even though there is no tie; or where a vote greater than a majority of
the corporate authorities is required by the Illinois Revised Statutes to adopt
an ordinance, resolution or motion. In each instance specified, the Mayor shall
vote.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall deprive an acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-Tem
from voting in his or her capacity as Alderman, but he or she shall not be
entitled to another vote in his or her capacity as acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-
Tem.
(1975 Code, § 3.40)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-14
§ 31.040 MAYOR’S SALARY.
   The Mayor shall receive compensation of a monthly salary of $450. The Mayor
shall also receive $300 a month for auto expenses. He or she shall be entitled
to reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by him or her in the performance
of his or her duties.
(1975 Code, § 3.41) (Ord. 08-11, passed 10-15-2008; Ord. 16-09, passed 10-5-
2016; Ord. 20-04, passed 9-2-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-13-4 and Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24, §§ 3-
13-65 et seq.
§ 31.041 MAYORAL NOMINATIONS TO APPOINTED OFFICES.
   (A)   A Mayoral nominee for an appointed office must be approved by a
majority vote of all elected Aldermen.
   (B)   In the event that the Mayoral nominee for an appointed office is not
approved by a majority vote of all elected Aldermen, then the Mayor may appoint
the nominee to serve as a temporary appointed officer until the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting,
   (C)   At the next regularly scheduled Council meeting following the
temporary appointment, the Mayor may resubmit the same nominee for the
appointed office. If the nominee again fails to receive a majority vote of all
elected Aldermen, the nominee may continue to serve as temporary appointed
office until the next regularly scheduled Council meeting,
   (D)   At the next regularly scheduled Council meeting following the second
nomination, the Mayor shall submit a new nominee for the appointed office for
consideration by the Council.
   (E)   No temporary appointment of any one person shall be made more than
twice in any one fiscal year.
(Ord. 12-09, passed 12-19-2012)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.055 ELECTED.
   The City Clerk shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor, for a
four-year term and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(1975 Code, § 3.43)
§ 31.056 COUNCIL MINUTES; RECORDS.
   (A)   The City Clerk, or his or her representative shall attend all meetings
of the City Council, and shall keep in a suitable book to be styled “Journal of
the City Council”, a full and faithful record of its proceedings.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the City Council, and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage and when published, of the publication of such ordinance.
   (C)   He or she shall also record, in proper books for the purpose, all
official bonds and note upon each bond so recorded, when the same was entered
of record and the book and pages where recorded.
(1975 Code, § 3.44)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7
§ 31.057 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Clerk, when authorized by the City Council, may appoint the Deputy
Clerk, who shall have the power and duty to execute all documents required by
any law to be executed by the Clerk and affix the seal of the city thereto
whenever required in signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the
name of the City Clerk, followed with the word “By”, and the Deputy Clerk’s
name and the words, “Deputy Clerk”.
   (B)   The powers and duties herein described shall be executed by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from the City Clerk’s office
in the City Hall, and only when either written direction has been given by the
City Clerk, to such deputy to exercise such power, or the City Council has
determined by resolution that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
(1975 Code, § 3.45)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-9-2
§ 31.058 PAPERS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the City
Council, and the officers of this city, all petitions, communications, reports
and resolutions, orders, claims and other papers, referred to those committees
or officers by the Council, on demand therefor.
   (B)   He or she shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor, all
ordinances or resolutions, orders, claims, in his or her charge, which may
require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor.
(1975 Code, § 3.46)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-8
§ 31.059 COMMISSIONS; LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
city.
(1975 Code, § 3.47)
§ 31.060 REPORT OF LICENSE.
   The Clerk shall report to the City Council at its regular meetings each
month, and oftener if the Council so requires the data contained in his or her
license register with respect to licenses issued during the previous month.
(1975 Code, § 3.49)
§ 31.061 LICENSE.
   In all cases where the city requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain from the Clerk plates, tags or stickers, it
shall be the duty of the Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers free to
the person paying the license fee.
(1975 Code, § 3.50)
§ 31.062 SUBMIT APPROPRIATION TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Clerk shall, on or before May 15 in each year, and before the
annual appropriations to be made by the City Council, submit to the Council a
report of his or her estimates as nearly as may be of monies necessary to
defray the expenses of the corporation during the current fiscal year. He or
she shall, in said report, classify the different objects and branches of
expenditures, giving as nearly as may be, the amount required for each and, for
the purpose of making such a report, he or she is hereby authorized to require
of all officers, their statement of the condition and expenses of their
respective offices or departments, with any proposed improvements and the
probable expense thereof, all contracts made and unfinished and the amount of
any and all unexpended appropriations of the preceding year.
   (B)   He or she shall, in such report, show the aggregate income of the
preceding fiscal year, from all sources, the amount of liabilities outstanding
upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable during the year,
when due, and when payable, and in such report, he or she shall give such other
information to the City Council as he or she may deem necessary to the end that
the City Council may fully understand the money exigencies and demands upon the
corporation for the current year.
(1975 Code, § 3.51)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-24
§ 31.063 PAYROLL.
   The Clerk shall prepare the city payroll for all persons who come under
appropriations for salaries.
(1975 Code, § 3.52)
§ 31.064 OUTSTANDING BONDS.
   He or she shall keep in his or her office, in a book or books kept expressly
for that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the city,
showing the number and amount of each, for and to whom said bonds are issued;
and when the city bonds are issued or purchased or paid or cancelled; the book
or books shall show the fact; and in his or her annual report, the City Clerk
shall describe particularly the bonds sold during the year, and the terms of
sale with each and every item of expense thereof).
(1975 Code, § 3.53)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-23
§ 31.065 REPORTS.
   The City Clerk shall, on or before the first meeting in each month, make out
and submit to the City Council, a statement or report in writing of all the
moneys received and warrants drawn by him or her during the preceding month,
showing therein from or what sources and on what account monies were received,
and for what purposes, and on what account the warrants were drawn or paid.
(1975 Code, § 3.55)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-24
§ 31.066 SUCCESSOR.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office, all books,
records, papers, maps and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the city, or pertaining to his or her office, and not in actual use and
possession of other city officers, and upon the expiration of his or her
official term, he or she shall deliver all such books, records, papers and
effects to his or her successor in office.
(1975 Code, § 3.56)
§ 31.067 PAYMENTS.
   The Clerk shall prepare weekly, an itemized list of all monies received and
shall deliver a copy of the same to the City Treasurer and shall also pay over
to the Treasurer, all monies received by him or her and take a receipt
therefor.
(1975 Code, § 3.57)
§ 31.068 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Clerk shall keep an accurate register of warrants drawn upon the
Treasury, specifying the date, to whom payable the amount and the particular
fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable.
(1975 Code, § 3.58)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-1-8
§ 31.069 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   He or she shall, under the direction of the Committee on Finance, open and
keep a complete set of books in which, among other things, shall be set forth
the appropriations of the fiscal year for each distinct object and branch of
expenditure, and also the receipts from each and every source of revenue, so
far as he or she can ascertain the same.
(1975 Code, § 3.59)
§ 31.070 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS ELECTED OR APPOINTED.
   The Clerk, within five days after the result of an election is declared or
an appointment is made, shall notify all persons elected or appointed to
office, of their election or appointment. The office becomes vacant unless the
person elected or appointed qualifies within ten days after such notice.
(1975 Code, § 3.60)
§ 31.071 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the Clerk shall perform all such other
duties, pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or
her by law or resolution or ordinances of the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.61)
§ 31.072 UTILITIES.
   The Clerk, or his or her representative, shall prepare monthly utility
bills, send out statements and receive collections for the same, and perform
any similar functions necessary for the proper execution of said office;
including monthly delinquent utility lists and an annual report. Each monthly
report shall consist of expenditures from each fund, plus balance left from
each fund per month.
(1975 Code, § 3.62)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-11-21
§ 31.073 SALARY.
   The City Clerk shall receive and be paid a salary in an amount as may be
established from time to time by City Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.63)
ETHICS PROVISIONS
§ 31.085 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination or election of Presidential or Vice-
Presidential electors, but does not include activities: relating to the support
or opposition of any executive, legislative or administrative action; relating
to collective bargaining; or that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s
official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/1-
3).
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act (5 ILCS 315/3).
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
subchapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods,
personal time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a
leave of absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not
fixed, COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on
premises under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer
or employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-1.4).
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the city, whether on a full-time or part-time
basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction and
control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work is
to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The City of Vienna, State of Illinois.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
compensation for employment; service credit towards pension benefits; and
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative or administrative action; relating to collective bargaining; or
that are otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a County Clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code (10 ILCS 5/9-3), but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a County
Clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fund-raiser, political meeting or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on Election Day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate or proxy to a political party
convention; and
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action: by an officer; or by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business: with the officer; or with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated: by the officer; or by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 8-17-2005)
§ 31.086 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the county in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: as part
of that officer or employee’s duties; as a condition of employment; or during
any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this subchapter.
   (E)   No person either: in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant-
in-aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 8-17-2005) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.087 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Gift ban. Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as “recipients”), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions. Division (A) above is not applicable to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits and services that are available on the same
conditions as for the general public;
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
      (3)   Any contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
activities associated with a fund-raising event in support of a political
organization or candidate;
      (4)   Educational materials and missions;
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
      (6)   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiancé or fiancee;
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals;
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate
family members;
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are consumed on the
premises from which they were purchased or prepared or catered. For the
purposes of this section, CATERED means food or refreshments that are purchased
ready to consume which are delivered by any means;
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances;
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts. For the purpose
of this Act, being 5 ILCS 430, INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to
an officer or employee from another officer or employee, and INTER-GOVERNMENTAL
GIFT means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity;
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances and other transfers at death; or
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100. Each of the
exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive and independent of
every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this subchapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a
gift from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income
taxation under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or
hereafter amended, renumbered or succeeded.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 8-17-2005) Penalty, see §
31.999
§ 31.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Reporting of violation. A violation will be handled like all
other ordinance violations; upon information or belief that a violation of §§
31.085 through
31.087 has been committed by any “officer” or “employee” of the city, then that
information should be directed to the Chief of Police, or any other law
enforcement agency having jurisdiction over the place where the violation
occurred, so that a report can be prepared and sent to the County State’s
Attorney’s office for a determination to be made if a violation has occurred.
      (2)   Penalties.
         (a)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.086 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
         (b)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.087 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
         (c)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of §§
31.085 through
31.087 to the State’s Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
         (d)   A violation of §
31.086 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by the State Attorney by
filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging such
offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal
procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the
defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. The State’s Attorney may prosecute a
violation of §
31.087 as a quasi-criminal offense.
         (e)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §§
31.086 or
31.087 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 8-17-2005)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Finance Department
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Finance Committee
   
32.03   Treasurer
   
32.04   Money; warrants; accounts
   
32.05   Warrant register
   
32.06   Funds
   
32.07   Bookkeeping
   
32.08   Statements
   
32.09   Year-end report
   
32.10   Treasurer’s salary
Judicial Department
   
32.25   Department established
   
32.26   Ordinance Committee
   
32.27   Appointment of Attorney
   
32.28   Duties
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government, which
shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the Finance
Committee, Mayor and the City Treasurer.
(1975 Code, § 3.64)
§ 32.02 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the
condition and needs thereof, shall, from time to time, report the same to the
Mayor and City Council, so that a full understanding thereof shall be had, and
generally, shall do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
Department.
(1975 Code, § 3.65)
§ 32.03 TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council, for the term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until his or her successor shall have been appointed and
qualified.
(1975 Code, § 3.66) (Ord. 96-08, passed 8-21-1996)
§ 32.04 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to this city,
and shall pay all warrants signed by the Mayor, and countersigned by the City
Clerk, and not otherwise, and shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation, and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
   (B)   He or she shall give to every person paying money into the City
Treasury, a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what
account paid, and he or she shall file copies of such receipts with the Clerk
with his or her monthly reports.
(1975 Code, § 3.67)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-2
§ 32.05 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid by him
or her, showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which paid,
and the name of the person to whom and when paid, and he or she shall cancel
all warrants as soon as redeemed by him or her.
(1975 Code, § 3.68)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-1-8 and 65 ILCS 5/8-1-9
§ 32.06 FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall keep all monies in his or her hands belonging to this
city separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she shall not
use either directly or indirectly, the city monies, or warrants in this custody
and keeping for his or her own use and benefit, or that of any other person.
Any violation of this section shall subject him or her to removal from office
by the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.70)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-4
§ 32.07 BOOKKEEPING.
   The Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such a manner as
to show with accuracy all monies received and disbursed by him or her for the
city, stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what
account paid out, and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files and
papers of his or her office shall be at all times, open to examination by the
Mayor or the Finance Committee of the Council.
(1975 Code, § 3.71)
§ 32.08 STATEMENTS.
   The Municipal Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the
first monthly meeting, a full and detailed account of all receipts and
expenditures of the municipality, as shown by his or her books, up to the time
of the report.
(1975 Code, § 3.72)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-15
§ 32.09 YEAR-END REPORT.
   He or she shall, annually, at the close of the fiscal year, make out and
file with the City Clerk a full and detailed report of all the receipts and
expenditures of the corporation, as shown by his or her books, and of his or
her transactions as such Treasurer, during the preceding fiscal year and he or
she shall in such report, show the state of the City Treasury at the close of
said year, which report the Clerk shall publish as required by law.
(1975 Code, § 3.73)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-10-6
§ 32.10 TREASURER’S SALARY.
   The City Treasurer shall receive an annual salary as determined by the
appropriation ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 3.74) (Ord. 96-08, passed 8-21-1996)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT
§ 32.25 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department known as the Judicial
Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the committee on judiciary of the City Council and a
corporation counsel of the city.
(1975 Code, § 3.75)
§ 32.26 ORDINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The City Council standing committee on ordinances shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the Judiciary Department. It shall ascertain
the condition and needs thereof, shall, from time to time, report the same to
the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be had,
and, generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the
department.
(1975 Code, § 3.77)
§ 32.27 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the approval of
the City Council, for the term of one year, unless sooner removed for cause,
and until his or her successor shall have been appointed and qualified. The
Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the city, and shall be
known as the Corporation Counsel of the city, and receive an annual salary as
determined by the appropriation ordinance compensation for office services, and
advice, and shall receive reasonable fees for other services rendered, when, in
his or her judgment, or in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council or
Judiciary Committee, the same are necessary or for the best interests of the
city.
(1975 Code, § 3.78)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3-7-3
§ 32.28 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for city. The Corporation Counsel shall prosecute or defend,
on behalf of the city in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved; and the City Clerk shall furnish him or her
with certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in his or her keeping,
necessary to be filed or used in any suit or proceeding.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. He or she shall, when required, advise the
City Council, or any officer, in all matters of law in which the interests of
the corporation are involved, and he or she shall draw such ordinances, bonds,
forms and contracts or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required of
him or her by the Mayor, the City Council or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. He or she shall direct executions to be issued upon all
judgments recovered in favor of the city, and shall direct their prompt
service. He or she shall examine all the bills of the officers of courts, and
of other officers of the law, and shall certify to their correctness, and the
liability of the city therefor.
   (D)   Collection of taxes. He or she is hereby authorized and instructed to
enforce the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the
collection of which the city is interested, and to attend all sales of real or
personal property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special
assessments and to bid thereat in behalf of the city.
   (E)   Violations of ordinances. He or she shall institute and prosecute an
action in every case of violation of a city ordinance, when instructed to do so
by the Mayor, City Council or any committee thereof.
   (F)   Prosecution of suits. He or she shall not be required to prosecute any
suit or action arising under the ordinances of the city, when, upon
investigation of the same, he or she shall become satisfied that the complaint
was instituted maliciously or vexatiously, and without just cause; and he or
she shall dismiss or discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as
he or she may deem just or equitable.
(1975 Code, § 3.79)
CHAPTER 33: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
33.02   Freedom of Information Act; Open Meeting Act
   
33.03   Federal Surplus Property Program
   
33.04   Prevailing wage rate
   
33.05   Travel reimbursement policy
Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment
   
33.20   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
33.21   Sexual harassment defined
   
33.22   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
33.23   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment allegations
   
33.24   Consequences of sexual harassment
   
33.25   Consequences of knowingly making a false report
Residential Home Development Program
   
33.40   Goals and objectives; authority
   
33.41   Purpose and overview
   
33.42   Program description and terms
   
33.43   Eligible applicants and properties
   
33.44   Eligible development costs
   
33.45   Application submission and review
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1972.
(Ord. 71-2, passed 11-8-1971)
§ 33.02 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; OPEN MEETING ACT.
   (A)   (1)   The following officers and employees of the city are hereby
designated FOIA officers, and alternate FOIA officers of the city pursuant to 5
ILCS 140/3.5(a):
         (a)   City Clerk, primary FOIA officer;
         (b)   City Treasurer, first alternate FOIA officer; and
         (c)   Deputy City Clerk, second alternate FOIA officer.
      (2)   If the primary FOIA officer is absent from the city, or otherwise
unable to perform the duties of FOIA officer, then the first alternate FOIA
officer shall act as the FOIA officer. If both the primary FOIA officer and the
first alternate FOIA officer are absent from the city, or are otherwise unable
to perform the duties of the FOIA officer, then the second alternate FOIA
officer shall act as the FOIA officer.
   (B)   All FOIA officers designated in division (A) above must complete the
training offered by the Illinois Open Meetings Act, as required in 5 ILCS 120/
1.05(a).
   (C)   The primary FOIA officer is authorized to develop and use the
following in order to implement the FOIA for the city:
      (1)   Forms to utilize the FOIA: among the forms that the primary FOIA
officer may establish include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Checklist;
         (b)   Request form;
         (c)   Notice of incomplete form;
         (d)   Supplemental information form;
         (e)   Notice of approval;
         (f)   Acknowledgment of inspection;
         (g)   Notice of extension of time;
         (h)   Request of extension of time;
         (i)   Extension agreement;
         (j)   Notice for meeting;
         (k)   Acknowledgment of narrowed request;
         (l)   General notice of denial/partial denial of request;
         (m)   Notice intent to deny; and
         (n)   Notice of denial/partial denial of request.
      (2)   Establish fees for copying and certification of FOIA request.
   (D)   In carrying out the provisions of division (C) above, the primary FOIA
officer shall comply with the FOIA (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 10-01, passed 1-20-2010)
§ 33.03 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
   The elected officials of the city consent and decree that the city is
authorized to participate in the State of Illinois Federal Surplus Property
Program, being 20 ILCS 430/0.01 et seq.
(Res. 13-04, passed 11-6-2013)
§ 33.04 PREVAILING WAGE RATE.
   The prevailing wage rate provisions are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated into this code as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 6-4-2014; Ord. 15-03, passed 6-17-2015; Ord. 16-06, passed
6-15-2016; Ord. 17-04, passed 6-21-2017; Ord. 18-04, passed 6-6-2018)
§ 33.05 TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   The recitals set forth herein above shall be and are hereby incorporated as
findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set forth herein.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city in order to carry out
the responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city of Vienna or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   The city shall provide reimbursement for eligible public business
expenses incurred by city employees, appointed officials, and elected officials
while traveling on public business. Prior to incurring any travel expenses for
public business, registration information and/or projected travel expenses must
be submitted to the employee's supervisor or City Council for verification of
funds availability, justification for attendance, and approval.
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging expenses incurred by a
city employee, appointed official, or elected official shall be authorized
unless the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form",
attached hereto and made a part hereof, has been submitted to and approved by
the City Council. All reimbursements for travel, meals, and lodging expenses
incurred by its employees while traveling on public business shall have
sufficient budget appropriation in order to be approved. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq).
   (D)   Reimbursable expenses.
      (1)   Registration fees. Registration fees for meetings, seminars, or
conventions. Documentation is required including agenda if available.
      (2)   Transportation costs. The most economical mode of transportation
shall be selected. Criteria to be considered include the length of the trip,
travel time, and cost. Allowable transportation costs include:
         (a)   City vehicle. Actual expenses for gas, oil, repairs, and other
operating expenses will be reimbursed upon presentation of receipts.
         (b)   Personal vehicle. Mileage reimbursement shall be in accordance
with applicable IRS guidelines. Employees must submit actual beginning and
ending odometer readings to substantiate mileage. Alternately, mileage may be
substantiated by an internet mapping service which calculates the mileage by
the most direct route possible.
         (c)   Air travel. Air travel shall be at the lowest available fare,
and, if possible, planned in advance to take advantage of the most economical
rates. Receipts are required.
         (d)   Other transportation costs. Rental of automobiles, taxis, or
public transportation are reimbursed at cost with verification of receipts.
      (3)   Lodging. Reimbursement for lodging expenses shall be for the actual
expenses incurred and shall only cover the minimum number of nights required
for the event. The lodging shall be reasonable in accommodations and expense.
      (4)   Meals. Receipts must substantiate the cost of meals. Meals shall be
reasonable in expense.
   (E)   Non-reimbursable expenses.
      (1)   The city shall not reimburse any city employee, appointed official,
or elected official for any travel activities which would be considered
entertainment. However, activities which would otherwise be considered
entertainment, but which are ancillary to the purpose of the program or event,
may be reimbursed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Expenses related to a traveling spouse or guests are not eligible
for reimbursement.
      (3)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
(Ord. 17-01, passed 2-1-2017)
POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT
§ 33.20 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have
a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct that affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the city to prohibit harassment of
any person by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal
officials, municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 33.21 SEXUAL HARASSMENT DEFINED.
   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, 775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., which currently defines
SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
   (A)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting that individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct that may constitute SEXUAL HARASSMENT includes:
      (1)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
      (2)   Nonverbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
      (3)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or web sites;
      (4)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault;
      (5)   Textual/electronic: SEXTING (electron-ically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network web sites like Facebook and
Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a “reasonable person”.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 33.22 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself
or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or his
position to the offending employee, and to her or his immediate supervisor. It
is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the city manager or city administrator, or the chief executive officer
of the municipality.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside the municipality. The purpose of this policy is
to establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
municipality. However, all municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s), unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges, and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 33.23 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS.
   (A)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means a reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of a promotion or a transfer, or a
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against, even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action, such as a reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, or a denial of promotion or transfer, that
occurs in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state agency or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/5-5 et seq.).
   (E)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, pursuant to 740 ILCS 174/15(b), an employer may not
retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a government or law
enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation.
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is a
civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire, to
retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or she
reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment,
because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted or
participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the Illinois
Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge. The retaliation charge must be filed with the IDHR
within 180 days of the alleged retaliation, or with the EEOC within 300 days of
the alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 33.24 CONSEQUENCES OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks
and/or collective bargaining agreements, any person, who violates this policy
or the prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be
subject to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or
discharge by the municipality, and any applicable fines and penalties
established pursuant to local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each
violation may constitute a separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the
municipality shall be separate and distinct from any penalty imposed by an
ethics commission, and any fines or penalties imposed by a court of law or a
state or federal agency.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
§ 33.25 CONSEQUENCES OF KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT .
   (A)   A FALSE REPORT is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A FALSE
REPORT is not a report made in good faith that cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/5-5 et seq.) to an ethics commission, an inspector
general, the State Police, a State’s Attorney, the Attorney General, or any
other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics
commission may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person
who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 1-4-2018)
RESIDENTIAL HOME  DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
§ 33.40 GOALS AND OBJECTIVES; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The city desires to encourage the development and construction of new
homes within the city.
   (B)   The corporate authorities of the city believe that it is in the best
interest of the city to establish a formal program that will encourage these
types of activities to occur and help them to accomplish these goals.
   (C)   The city believes that the adoption of a Residential Home Development
Program (the “program”) will best be used to accomplish these goals and
objectives.
   (D)   The city will utilize funds collected through the Vienna TIF District
pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4 to fund and administer all eligible activities
undertaken pursuant to the program.
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 33.41 PURPOSE AND OVERVIEW.
   This program provides financial assistance to individuals who construct new
homes in the city. Through this program, the city hopes to create new housing
stock within the city that will attract new residents, spur investment in
residential properties, and generally improve the neighborhoods of the
community. Grant funds are made available through the Vienna TIP Fund, which is
administered by the city and its economic development consultants.
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 33.42 PROGRAM DESCRIPTION AND TERMS.
   (A)   Approved applications are eligible to be reimbursed an amount up to
$10,000 for eligible development costs related to the construction of new
single-family homes. The actual grant award may be less.
   (B)   Homes will be required to be at least 1,200 square feet in size.
   (C)   Modular homes are not eligible.
   (D)   Mobile homes are not eligible.
   (E)   Homes are not required to be owner- occupied.
   (F)   Grant monies will only be distributed after construction is verified
as complete and the city has issued an occupancy permit.
   (G)   All approved applications must initiate construction within 60 days
and complete construction within 270 days of the agreement execution date. At
its discretion, the city reserves the right to cancel or extend the funding
commitment for applicants failing to meet these deadlines.
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 33.43 ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS AND PROPERTIES.
   (A)   The property on which the new home is to be constructed must be
located within the city.
   (B)   Applicants must be able to provide proof of property ownership.
   (C)   Applicants must be in good financial standing with the city, with no
outstanding tax payments, fines or fees.
   (D)   The property must not be tax-exempt.
   (E)   Properties will not be eligible if any property assessments or
property taxes are not paid in full to date. The applicant must obtain all
necessary permits and pay any corresponding fees.
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 33.44 ELIGIBLE DEVELOPMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Only certain development costs will qualify as eligible under this
program.
   (B)   Eligible development costs include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Property acquisition;
      (2)   Site preparation (land clearing, demolition, surveying, earthwork,
and the like);
      (3)   Utility-line installation and connection (water, sewer, gas,
electric).
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 33.45 APPLICATION SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   All applications must be completed and submitted to the City Clerk located
at City Hall. Applications will be considered by the City Council on a first-
come, first-served basis, the submission of an application does not guarantee
that a project will be approved for participation in the program, or that any
monies will be awarded.
(Res. 22-01, passed 1-19-2022)
CHAPTER 34: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Civil Emergency
   
34.001   Definitions
   
34.002   Declaration of emergency
   
34.003   Curfew
   
34.004   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
34.005   Effectiveness
   
34.006   Notification
Auxiliary Police
   
34.020   Appointment
   
34.021   Not members of Police Department
   
34.022   Powers and duties
   
34.023   No firearms
   
34.024   Training course
   
34.025   Compensation
Police Department
   
34.040   Department established
   
34.041   Public Safety Committee
   
34.042   Head of Department
   
34.043   Appointment
   
34.044   Salary
   
34.045   Duties
   
34.046   Mutual aid contract
   
34.047   Appointment of patrolmen
   
34.048   Shift work
   
34.049   Special/part-time police officers
   
34.050   Hiring standards
   
34.051   Residency requirement
   
34.052   Enforcement of laws
   
34.053   Execute warrants
   
34.054   Legal processes
   
34.055   Assisting police officer
   
34.056   Aiding Fire Department
   
34.057   Failure to perform
   
34.058   Aiding in escape
   
34.059   Use of intoxicating liquor
Fire Department
   
34.070   Established
   
34.071   Membership
   
34.072   Meetings
   
34.073   Records
   
34.074   Reports
   
34.075   Inspections
   
34.076   Assistant Chiefs
   
34.077   Drills
   
34.078   Duties
   
34.079   Obedience to orders
   
34.080   Supervision
   
34.081   Command at fires
   
34.082   Enforcement of ordinances
   
34.083   Use of apparatus; injury
   
34.084   Entering fire houses
   
34.085   Equipment
   
34.086   Removal of members of Fire Department
   
34.087   Mutual aid agreements
   
34.088   Fire calls outside city limits
   
34.089   Residency requirement
 
   
34.999   Penalty
CIVIL EMERGENCY
§ 34.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY.
      (1)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
      (2)   Any natural disaster or human-made calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, excepting
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to the civil emergency.
(1975 Code, § 30.01)
§ 34.002 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   Whenever an emergency as defined in §
34.001 exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(1975 Code, § 30.02)
§ 34.003 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency, by the Mayor, he or she may order a
general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city
as a whole, as he or she deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of
the day or night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public
safety and welfare.
(1975 Code, § 30.03)
§ 34.004 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor of the city may also,
in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following
orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever;
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle; and/or
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1975 Code, § 30.04)
§ 34.005 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to
reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1975 Code, § 30.05)
§ 34.006 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Chief of Police shall
notify the news media situated within the city and shall cause three copies of
the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city:
   (A)   City Hall;
   (B)   The police station; and
   (C)   The post office.
(1975 Code, § 30.06)
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 34.020 APPOINTMENT.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint 25 auxiliary police officers as
employees, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council. Prior to
appointment, all proposed auxiliary police officers shall be fingerprinted and
their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal Bureau of Identification,
Washington, D.C., for any possible criminal record. No person shall be
appointed as an auxiliary police officer if he or she has been convicted of a
felony or other crime involving moral turpitude. The appointment of any or all
auxiliary police officers may be terminated by the Mayor subject to the advice
and consent of the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 30.08)
§ 34.021 NOT MEMBERS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   Such auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular Police
Department of the city. Auxiliary police officers shall be residents of the
city. Identification symbols worn by such auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by the regular Police Department and
shall be selected and chosen by the Chief of Police of the city. Auxiliary
police officers shall, at all times, during the performance of their duties, be
subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police of the city.
(1975 Code, § 30.10)
§ 34.022 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Auxiliary police officers shall have the following powers and duties when
properly assigned and on duty:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic in this municipality;
   (B)   To aid in control of natural or human-made disasters;
   (C)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
   (D)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the Chief
of Police on occasions when it is impracticable for members of the regular
Police Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
   (E)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
   (F)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (G)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate;
   (H)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
   (I)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of municipal
ordinances, or the state criminal law, within the limits of the city, and for
this purpose, to have all the common law and statutory power of sheriffs.
(1975 Code, § 30.11)
§ 34.023 NO FIREARMS.
   Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except those that have
completed the 40-hour Firearms Training Course, and are in uniform.
(1975 Code, § 30.12)
§ 34.024 TRAINING COURSE.
   Auxiliary police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties, shall
receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police procedures
by the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative. Such course of
training shall not be less than 20 hours in duration. Upon completion of the
course of training, the Chief of Police shall file a certificate attesting to
the auxiliary police officer’s completion of said course, with the City Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 30.13)
§ 34.025 COMPENSATION.
   Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation for services
performed.
(1975 Code, § 30.15)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.040 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city, which shall be known as the Police Department. It shall embrace the City
Council Standing Committee on Public Safety, one Chief of Police and such other
regular patrolmen as the City Council may hereafter from time to time provide
for, and also such special police officers as the Mayor, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter may appoint and commission.
(1975 Code, § 30.20)
§ 34.041 PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The City Council Standing Committee on Public Safety shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Police Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof; shall, from time
to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and, generally shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(1975 Code, § 30.21)
§ 34.042 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police of the city shall be the head of the Police Department,
subject to the orders of the Mayor, City Council and Committee on Public
Safety.
(1975 Code, § 30.22)
§ 34.043 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council, to serve for one year, or until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
(1975 Code, § 30.23)
§ 34.044 SALARY.
   He or she shall receive such compensation as may be provided by the
ordinances of the city or by resolution of the Council.
(1975 Code, § 30.24)
§ 34.045 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall devote his or her entire time to the
performance of the duties of his or her office, and is hereby charged with the
preservation of the peace, order and safety of the city, and with the duty of
protecting the rights of persons and property, and of enforcing all laws and
also all orders of the City Council.
   (B)   He or she shall take notice of all nuisances, obstructions and
defects, on the highways, or other public places, and shall cause the same to
be abated or removed, or immediate notice thereof given to the proper officer,
whose duty it may be to take action in relation thereto.
   (C)   He or she shall attend, either in person or by deputy, all meetings of
the City Council, execute all its orders, and close the Council chamber upon
the adjournment of that body. He or she shall also execute all warrants or
other legal process required to be executed by him or her under any ordinance
of the city.
(1975 Code, § 30.25)
§ 34.046 MUTUAL AID CONTRACT.
   The Police Department, with the approval of the City Council, may enter into
an agreement to provide police protection to neighboring municipalities.
(1975 Code, § 30.26)
§ 34.047 APPOINTMENT OF PATROLMEN.
   A sufficient number of patrolmen shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of the City Council, and they shall severally hold
office from year to year, or until the appointment and qualification of their
respective successors, and shall each, before entering into the performance of
their duties, take the oath or affirmation required by law and execute a bond,
with security to be approved by the City Council, in the penal sum of $500,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their respective
offices, and the payment by each office of all monies received by him or her,
according to law and the ordinances of the city, which bonds shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 30.27)
§ 34.048 SHIFT WORK.
   Each patrolman shall serve on the day or night force, as the Chief shall
direct, and the Mayor may, when necessary, detail any police officer for the
discharge of any particular or special duty, and may also require all police
officers to perform police duty at any time of the day or night.
(1975 Code, § 30.28)
§ 34.049 SPECIAL/PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, on special occasions, when in his or her judgment for public
peace and order of the city shall require, appoint and commission any number of
special or part-time police officers, as many as may be necessary, and shall
fix, in the order of his or her appointment, the time during which each shall
serve, and all such special or part-time police officers, during such time,
possess the powers and exercise the duties of regular police patrolmen;
provided that their appointment, if for more than ten days, shall be subject to
the consent of the City Council, in the manner that other appointments to
office by the Mayor are subject.
(1975 Code, § 30.29) (Ord. 97-06, passed 8-20-1997)
§ 34.050 HIRING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Any person employed as a part-time officer must meet the
following standards;
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess at a minimum high school diploma or GED certificate, and
shall be able to complete a course of basic police instruction of at least 400
hours, or as may hereafter be recommended under the standards of the State Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board, within one year of employment;
      (5)   Shall be able to pass the POWER Test as defined by the State Law
Enforcement Training and Standards Board;
      (6)   Shall have submitted to and passed a background investigation,
including a fingerprint screening through appropriate state and federal
sources;
      (7)   Possess no prior felony convictions or other crime involving moral
turpitude;
      (8)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (9)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged; and
      (10)   Shall be recommended by the Chief of Police and approved by the
City Council. The city is an equal opportunity employer.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time-police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time officer and such specific duties as delineated in the General
Orders of the City Police Department Police Manual, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
Police Training Act (50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of
the ILETSB.
   (C)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time officers serve at the discretion
of the city authorities, shall not have any property rights in said employment
and may be removed by the city authorities at any time as outlined in the city
police manual. Part-time officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
general orders issued by the City Police Department.
(Ord. 97-06, passed 8-20-1997; Ord. 12-01, passed 5-2-2012)
§ 34.051 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   All duly appointed police officers, including the Police Chief, shall reside
within the corporate limits of the city, both at the time of appointment to
office as well as throughout the police officer’s tenure of office. The
residency requirement established herein and pursuant to state law may be
waived by motion of the City Council on a case-by-case basis, as has been done
in past practice as stated in the police manual, which may include, but not be
limited to, the duration of time which the police officer shall be allowed to
reside outside of the corporate limits of the city, a radius outside of the
corporate limits within which the officer is allowed to reside, and a
requirement that the officer reside in a particular county or state.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 34.052 ENFORCEMENT OF LAWS.
   Each and every member of the police force, when on duty, shall devote his or
her entire time to the proper discharge of the duty of his or her station,
according to law and the ordinances of the city, and the rules and regulations
of the Police Department; and it shall be his or her duty to preserve at all
times, the order, peace and quiet of the city and to enforce the ordinances
thereof.
(1975 Code, § 30.31)
§ 34.053 EXECUTE WARRANTS.
   Every member of the Department shall have power, within the corporate limits
of the city, to serve and execute warrants or other legal process for the
apprehension and commitment of persons charged with or held, for the commission
of any crime or misdemeanor, or the violation of any law or ordinance of the
city; and while so serving or executing or assisting in the service of
execution of any such warrant or legal process, he or she shall be vested with
all the common law and statutory powers of police officers for such purposes.
(1975 Code, § 30.32)
§ 34.054 LEGAL PROCESSES.
   All police shall have power and authority to execute city warrants, or other
like legal process, without the corporate limits of the city and within such
distance therefrom as is authorized by law, in all cases when any ordinance of
the City Council, made pursuant to law, shall prescribe a penalty for the
violation of any of its provisions by persons residing, acting or doing
business within the limits of the city.
(1975 Code, § 30.33)
§ 34.055 ASSISTING POLICE OFFICER.
   Every police officer of the city may, at any time, call upon any able-bodied
male/female above the age of 18 years, to aid him or her in the arresting,
retaking or holding in custody, of any person, guilty of having committed any,
unlawful act or charged therewith, or to aid such officer in preventing the
commission of any unlawful act.
(1975 Code, § 30.34)
§ 34.056 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire, and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that the firefighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(1975 Code, § 30.35)
§ 34.057 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by this code of the city or the rules and
regulations of the Department, or who shall, in the discharge of his or her
official duties, be guilty of any fraud, favoritism, extortion, oppressions or
willful wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal from office.
(1975 Code, § 30.36)
§ 34.058 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person in this city to resist or obstruct
any member of the police force in the discharge of his or her duty or to
endeavor to do so, in any manner, assist any person in the custody of any
member of the police force to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody
or to attempt to rescue any such person in custody.
(1975 Code, § 30.38)
§ 34.059 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member on active tour of duty or while wearing the official police
officer’s badge of the city shall indulge in the use of intoxicating liquor of
any kind, and intoxication at any time shall be sufficient cause for removal.
(1975 Code, § 30.39) Penalty, see §
34.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1 through 5/11-1-7
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.070 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Fire Department, consisting of a Fire Marshal,
who shall be Chief of the Department and two Assistant Chiefs. The Fire Chief
shall serve as the Fire Marshal of the city.
(1975 Code, § 30.40)
§ 34.071 MEMBERSHIP.
   The membership of the Fire Department shall consist of such persons as may
be admitted by the volunteer firefighter’s organization residing within the
city. Names shall be presented by the membership committee to the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 30.41)
§ 34.072 MEETINGS.
   The members of the Department shall hold meetings as necessary.
(1975 Code, § 30.42)
§ 34.073 RECORDS.
   The Chief shall keep, or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the
Department, and the attendance of the members, a record of all fires, and
reports shall be available for city inspection.
(1975 Code, § 30.43)
§ 34.074 REPORTS.
   The Fire Chief shall make a complete annual report to the City Council. This
report shall include any requests for new equipment which will improve the
effectiveness of the Department.
(1975 Code, § 30.44)
§ 34.075 INSPECTIONS.
   The Chief is empowered to inspect or he or she may request the State Fire
Marshal to inspect any and all public buildings and premises at any reasonable
time for the purpose of inspecting the premises for dangerous fire hazards
which may threaten life or property. Any dangerous condition shall be ordered
abated by the Fire Chief and/or State Fire Marshal.
(1975 Code, § 30.45)
§ 34.076 ASSISTANT CHIEFS.
   All Fire Department Assistant Chiefs and officers shall serve a probationary
period of one year.
(1975 Code, § 30.47)
§ 34.077 DRILLS.
   The Fire Chief shall conduct fire drills as needed.
(1975 Code, § 30.48)
§ 34.078 DUTIES.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Fire Department and every member
thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of such fires.
(1975 Code, § 30.49)
§ 34.079 OBEDIENCE TO ORDERS.
   Any firefighter in attendance at a fire who shall neglect or refuse to obey
the orders of the officer in command at such fire, shall, upon conviction, be
reprimanded and disciplined by the Department.
(1975 Code, § 30.50)
§ 34.080 SUPERVISION.
   The Chief or ranking available officer shall have control of the Fire
Department and all fire apparatus belonging to the city. Whenever any fire
apparatus belonging to the city needs repairing, the Chief or ranking available
officer shall cause the same to be done without delay.
(1975 Code, § 30.51)
§ 34.081 COMMAND AT FIRES.
   In case of fire, the senior officer and his or her assistants shall rank in
the order named and the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take
command of the Fire Department and direct the management thereof for the
suppression of the fire in the best manner possible; and when it may be
necessary of the conflagration, the officer in command may cause buildings to
be removed, torn down or destroyed in the best manner possible.
(1975 Code, § 30.52)
§ 34.082 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES.
   It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Department and all police
officers of the city to see that the provisions of this chapter are enforced
and to arrest on view, any person who shall be found violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, or who shall hinder, resist or refuse to obey any
such officer in the discharge of his or her duty, and to that end, all such
officers are hereby vested with the usual power and authority of police
officers.
(1975 Code, § 30.53)
§ 34.083 USE OF APPARATUS; INJURY.
   (A)   No person shall use any fire engine, hose or any other apparatus
belonging to the city for any private purpose, other than the extinguishment of
fires, nor shall they remove the same or any part thereof from its place of
deposit, or having control thereof, shall permit such engine, hose or other
apparatus to be used for any private purpose.
   (B)   No person shall willfully or negligently break, deface or in any
manner injure any fire engine, hose equipment or other fire apparatus belonging
to the city, or shall remove any screw, bolt, nut or any part of such engine or
other fire apparatus or in any manner interfere with the same when being used
by the proper person or authority,
(1975 Code, § 30.54) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.084 ENTERING FIRE HOUSES.
   It shall be and hereby is declared unlawful for any unauthorized person or
persons to enter the Fire Department house or any place where the equipment and
apparatus of the Fire Department is stored, at any time, except on business
pertaining to the Fire Department or other city business.
(1975 Code, § 30.55) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.085 EQUIPMENT.
   The City Council shall supply the necessary apparatus and equipment as may
be required from time to time to maintain the efficiency of the Department and
its ability to protect life and property.
(1975 Code, § 30.56)
§ 34.086 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The members of the Fire Department may be removed for cause on a two-thirds
vote of the members of the Volunteer Fire Department.
(1975 Code, § 30.57)
§ 34.087 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The Fire Department is authorized to enter into mutual aid
agreements with neighboring fire districts or municipalities owning fire
apparatus; no apparatus or equipment shall aid a municipality or district
unless an agreement is on record. Such aid and assistance to another
municipality or district shall not jeopardize the fire protection within the
city.
   (B)   Addendum to mutual aid box alarm system agreement. The mutual aid box
alarm system agreement is incorporated herein by reference and made a part
hereof as if appearing in total.
(1975 Code, § 30.58) (Ord. 341, passed 3-4-1964; Ord. 15-01, passed 1-21-2015;
Ord. 16-10, passed 12-21-2016)
§ 34.088 FIRE CALLS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   The Fire Chief shall report all fire calls outside city limits to the City
Clerk, who shall bill property owners requesting such service as set by the
city. See fees set forth in §
35.15.
(1975 Code, § 30.59) (Ord. 78-4, passed 2-6-1978)
§ 34.089 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   All duly appointed Fire Chiefs, Assistant Fire Chiefs and regularly
employed Fire Department personnel shall reside within the corporate limits of
city, both at the time of appointment to office as well as throughout the
firefighter’s tenure of office.
   (B)   The residency requirement established herein and pursuant to state law
may be waived by motion of the City Council on a case-by-case basis, which may
include, but not be limited to, the duration of time which the fire officer
shall be allowed to reside outside of the corporate limits of the city, a
radius outside of the corporate limits within which the officer is allowed to
reside, and a requirement that the officer reside in a particular county or
state.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 5-7-2008)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
34.001 through
34.006 or executive order issued pursuant thereto shall be guilty of an offense
against the city and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(1975 Code, § 30.07)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-6
CHAPTER 35: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Tax Provisions
   
35.01   Service occupation tax
   
35.02   M.R.O. tax
   
35.03   Foreign fire insurance companies
   
35.04   Use tax
Fees and Charges of City
   
35.15   Fees for Fire Department response
   
35.16   Charges for services rendered in the containment, removal and disposal
of materials hazardous to the public health and safety
Hotel Tax
   
35.30   Definitions
   
35.31   Exemption
   
35.32   Books and records
   
35.33   Return of taxpayer; payment of tax
   
35.34   Violations
   
35.35   Exemptions
   
35.36   Effective date
Tax Increment Financing
“Interested Parties” Registries
   
35.50   Establishment
   
35.51   TIF interested parties registry registration rules
GENERAL TAX PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price
of all tangible personal property transferred by the servicemen either in the
form of tangible personal property, or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-5 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department of
Revenue, required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 115,
approved July 10, 1961, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue, the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(1975 Code, § 36.01)
§ 35.02 M.R.O. TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the rate of 1% of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this code is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of § 8-11-1 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Every person engaged in such business in the city shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the State Department
of Revenue required by § 3 of An Act in Relation to a Tax upon Persons Engaged
in the Business of Selling Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or
Consumption, being 35 ILCS 120/3, approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue, the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from the sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month.
(1975 Code, § 36.02)
§ 35.03 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES.
   (A)   Conformance. All corporations, companies and associations not
incorporated under the laws of this state, which are engaged in this city, in
effecting or soliciting fire insurance, shall pay to the Treasurer on July 15
of each and every year, a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts of premiums
received by such corporations, associations or companies, or their agencies,
agent(s) for business effected or transacted for fire insurance within this
city for the year preceding July 1. The sum above named shall be as a tax or
license fee upon all such corporations, companies or associations transacting
the business within this city.
   (B)   Required reports. Every person acting as an agent, or otherwise, for
or on behalf of any such corporation, company or association, shall, on or
before July 15 of each and every year, render to the Clerk, a full, true and
just account, verified by oath, of all the premiums which during the year
ending on July 1 of each and every year, shall have been received by him or
her, or any other person for him or her, in behalf of such corporation, company
or association, and shall fully and specifically set out in the report, the
amount or amounts received as premiums for fire insurance.
   (C)   Fees. The agent(s) shall also, at the time of making the above
mentioned report, pay to the Treasurer, the sum of 2% upon the gross receipts
of such corporation, company or association obtained as premiums for effecting
fire insurance in this city, as specified in this subchapter.
   (D)   Unlawful operation. If such an account be not rendered on or before
the day herein specified for that purpose, or if the above mentioned rates for
the tax or license fees shall remain unpaid after that day, it shall be
unlawful for any such corporation, company or association to transact any
business of fire insurance in this city; until the requirements hereof are
fully complied with, but this provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation or association from the payment of any such risk that may be taken
in violation hereof.
(1975 Code, § 36.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.04 USE TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of use tax. A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with the
provisions of § 8-11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-6,
upon the privilege of using in the municipality any item of tangible personal
property which is purchased outside the state at retail from a retailer, and
which is titled or registered with an agency of the state government. The tax
shall be at a rate of 1% of the selling price of such tangible property with
selling price to have the meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act, being 35 ILCS
105, approved July 14, 1955.
   (B)   Collection. Such tax shall be collected by the State Department of
Revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid before the
title or certificates of registration for the personal property is issued.
   (C)   Filing. The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the State
Department of Revenue a certified copy of this section not later than five days
after its effective date.
(1975 Code, § 36.04)
FEES AND CHARGES OF CITY
§ 35.15 FEES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT RESPONSE.
   (A)   Outside corporate limits.
      (1)   The rates are inapplicable to mutual aid calls and MABAS requests
from other fire departments.
      (2)   The following charges will apply for any fire protection assistance
provided by the City Fire Department outside of the corporate limits of the
city:
         (a)   Trucks: $250 per hour;
         (b)   Firefighters: $70 per hour;
         (c)   F-500 and/or AR-AFFF foam: $35 per gallon; and
         (d)   Material and other equipment costs shall be billed at actual
cost of usage or replacement.
      (3)   Charges to and by the U.S. Forest Service will be negotiated in an
exclusive mutual aid agreement between the city and the U.S. Forest Service.
      (4)   The above fees may be reduced on an individual case-by-case basis
by motion of the City Council.
   (B)   Non-residents.
      (1)   The charge for any fire protection assistance for persons,
businesses, and other entities who are not residents of the City of Vienna
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Trucks: $250 per hour;
         (b)   Firefighters: $70 per hour;
         (c)   F-500 and/or AR-AFFF foam: $35 per gallon; and
         (d)   Material and other equipment costs shall be billed at actual
cost of usage or replacement.
      (2)   Residents of the City of Vienna currently subsidize these costs
through their property taxes. For the purposes of this section, a non-resident
is defined as any person who does not maintain his or her full time residence
within the City of Vienna or is not a majority owner of a business that
operates from real property owned by a business located within the City of
Vienna.
      (3)   The above fees may be reduced on an individual case-by-case basis
by motion of the City Council.
(Ord. 07-06, passed 11-21-2007; Ord. 18-03, passed 5-16-2018; Ord. 20-01,
passed 7-1-2020)
§ 35.16 CHARGES FOR SERVICES RENDERED IN THE CONTAINMENT, REMOVAL AND DISPOSAL
OF MATERIALS HAZARDOUS TO THE PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The City Fire Department is authorized and directed to respond,
immediately upon being notified, and to do all things within its capabilities
to contain, remove and dispose of any materials hazardous to public health and
safety that are leaked, spilled or otherwise improperly released within the
district’s response area.
   (B)   Should such response require the services of special personnel and
equipment beyond the capabilities of the City Fire Department to provide, the
Chief of the Fire Department is authorized to obtain or to contract for the
services of personnel or equipment sufficient to contain, remove and dispose of
such hazardous materials.
   (C)   The cost incurred for the use of such special personnel and equipment,
in addition to the cost of the use of the City Fire Department personnel and
equipment, shall be charged to the person, firm or organization, jointly and
severally, in possession of, in the process of transporting or otherwise
responsible for the containment of any hazardous material spilled, leaked or
otherwise improperly released.
   (D)   The amount of costs incurred by the City Fire Department from the use
of special personnel and equipment is the amount to be charged to the person,
firm or organization designated in division (C) above. In addition, such
person, firm or organization shall be charged for the use of the City Fire
Department personnel, equipment and materials as follows:
      (1)   Pumper truck: $300 per hour;
      (2)   Aerial ladder truck: $300 per hour;
      (3)   Pumper truck: $300 per hour;
      (4)   Tanker truck: $300 per hour;
      (5)   Brush truck: $300 per hour;
      (6)   Communications unit: $300 per hour;
      (7)   Hazardous materials truck: $300 per hour;
      (8)   Off-duty personnel callback: hourly overtime rate plus 30%;
      (9)   Other personnel: $35 per hour;
      (10)   Materials: cost of replacement; and
      (11)   Other equipment: regular hour rate.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 6-17-2009)
HOTEL TAX
§ 35.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes, but is not limited to, inns, motels, tourist homes or
courts, and bed and breakfast establishments.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of
the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use and
possession of the room or rooms.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT. Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a
hotel for at least 30 consecutive days.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 35.31 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon persons engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel at the rate of 5% of the gross rental
receipts from such renting, leasing or letting, excluding, however, from gross
rental receipts, the proceeds of such renting, leasing or letting to permanent
residents of that hotel.
   (B)   The amounts collected by municipality pursuant to this subchapter
shall be expended by the municipality solely to promote tourism and conventions
within this municipality or otherwise to attract nonresident overnight visitors
to the municipality.
   (C)   No funds received pursuant to this Act shall be used to advertise for
or otherwise promote new competition in the hotel business.
   (D)   However, such tax is not imposed upon the privilege of engaging in any
business in interstate commerce or otherwise, which business may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by this city or the state. In addition, the tax is not imposed upon gross
rental receipts for which the hotel operator is prohibited from obtaining
reimbursement for the tax from the customer by reason of a federal treaty.
   (E)   Persons subject to any tax imposed pursuant to authority granted by
this section may reimburse themselves for their tax liability for such tax by
separately stating such tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated
in combination, in a single amount, with state tax imposed under the Hotel
Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 35.32 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Every operator shall keep separate books or records of his or her business
as an operator so as to show the rents and occupancies taxable under this
subchapter separately from his or her transactions not taxable under this Act,
being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq. If any operator fails to keep such separate books
or records, he or she shall be liable to tax at the rate designated in §
35.31 upon the entire proceeds from his or her hotel. For purposes of this
section, RECORDS means all data maintained by the taxpayer, including data on
paper, microfilm, microfiche or any type of machine-sensible data compilation,
and may be in the form prescribed by rules established by the Illinois
Department of Revenue.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 35.33 RETURN OF TAXPAYER; PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Except as provided hereinafter in this section, on or before the last
day of each calendar month, every person engaged in the business of renting,
leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in this municipality during the preceding
calendar month shall file a return with the City Clerk stating:
      (1)   The name of the operator;
      (2)   His or her residence address and the address of his or her
principal place of business and the address of the principal place of business
(if that is a different address) from which he or she engages in the business
of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a hotel in this state;
      (3)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms during such
preceding calendar month;
      (4)   Total amount of rental receipts received by him or her during the
preceding calendar month from renting, leasing or letting rooms to permanent
residents during such preceding calendar month;
      (5)   Total amount of other exclusions from gross rental receipts allowed
by this Act, being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.;
      (6)   Gross rental receipts which were received, by him or her during the
preceding calendar month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (7)   The amount of tax due; and
      (8)   Such other reasonable information as the Department may require.
   (B)   If the operator’s average monthly tax liability to the city does not
exceed $200, the City Clerk may authorize his or her returns to be filed on a
quarter annual basis, or on an annual basis if such operator is authorized to
file returns on tax imposed by the State Department of Revenue on such reduced
basis, and may use the same forms and same schedule on which such returns are
made to the State Department of Revenue.
   (C)   Such quarter annual and annual returns, as to form and substance,
shall be subject to the same requirements as monthly returns.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this Act concerning the time
within which an operator may file his or her return, in the case of any
operator who ceases to engage in a kind of business which makes him or her
responsible for filing returns under this Act, such operator shall file a final
return under this Act with the City Clerk not more than one month after
discontinuing such business.
   (E)   Where the same person has more than one business registered with the
Department under separate registrations under this Act, such person shall not
file each return that is due as a single return covering all such registered
businesses, but shall file separate returns for each such registered business.
   (F)   In his or her return, the operator shall determine the value of any
consideration other than money received by him or her in connection with the
renting, leasing or letting of rooms in the course of his or her business and
he or she shall include such value in his or her return. Such determination
shall be subject to review and revision by the Department in the manner
hereafter provided for the correction of returns.
   (G)   Where the operator is a corporation, the return filed on behalf of
such corporation shall be signed by the president, vice president, secretary or
treasurer or by the properly accredited agent of such corporation.
   (H)   The person filing the return herein provided for shall, at the time of
filing such return, pay to the Department the amount of tax herein imposed.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 35.34 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
hotel rooms in this state who fails to make a return, or to keep books and
records as required herein, or who makes a fraudulent return, or any officer or
agent of a corporation engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting
hotel rooms in this state who signs a fraudulent return made on behalf of such
corporation, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 for each offense.
   (B)   A prosecution for any act in violation of this section may be
commenced at any time within three years of the commission of that act.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.35 EXEMPTIONS.
   Persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel only to permanent residents are exempt from the provisions of this Act,
being 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
§ 35.36 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The tax herein imposed shall go into effect January 1, 1996.
(Ord. 95-5, passed 12-6-1995)
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
“INTERESTED PARTIES” REGISTRIES
§ 35.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Clerk or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and directed to
create an "interested parties" registry in accordance with § 11-74.4-4.2 of the
act for each redevelopment project area created under the act and not
terminated by the city, whether now existing or created after the date of the
adoption of this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 5-7-2017)
§ 35.51 TIF INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in these registration rules, the following terms
shall have the definitions set forth below.
      ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1,
et seq., as amended from time to time.
      INTERESTED PARTY(S).(a) Any organization(s) active within the city (b)
any resident(s) of the city, and (c) any other entity or person otherwise
entitled under the act to register in a specific registry who has registered in
such registry and whose registration has not been terminated in accordance with
these registration rules.
      REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that (a) is
intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a "redevelopment project
area" under the act and (ii) is subject to the "interested parties" registry
requirements of the act.
      REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the requirements of
the act.
      REGISTRY. or REGISTRIES Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-
74.4-4.2 of the Act for the Redevelopment Project Area.
      CITY. City of Vienna, a unit of government under Section 6(a) Article VII
of the 1970 Constitution of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   Establishment of registry. The city shall establish a separate
interested parties registry for each Redevelopment Project Area, whether
existing as of the date of the adoption of these rules or hereafter
established. The city shall establish a new registry whenever it has identified
an area for study and possible designation as a Redevelopment Project Area. In
any event the process of establishing the new registry must be completed prior
to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by division (J) of this
subchapter or any other notices required by the act with respect to the
proposed Redevelopment Project Area.
   (C)   Maintenance of registry. The registries shall be maintained by the
City Clerk or his or her designee. In the event the city determines that
someone other than the Clerk should maintain the registries, the city may
transfer the responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other
department provided that the city (i) gives prior written notice to all
interested parties not less than 30 days prior to such transfer and (ii)
publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
   (D)   Registration by residents. An individual seeking to register as an
interested person with respect to a Redevelopment Project Area must complete
and submit a registration form to the City Clerk. Such individual must also
submit a copy of a current driver's license, lease, utility bill, financial
statement or such other evidence as may be acceptable to the Clerk to establish
the individual's current city residency.
   (E)   Registration by organizations. An organization seeking to register as
an interested person with respect to a Redevelopment Project Area must complete
and submit a registration form to the City Clerk. Such organization must also
submit a copy of a one-page statement describing the organization's current
operations in the city.
   (F)   Determination of eligibility. All individuals and organizations whose
Registration Form and supporting documentation complies with these Registration
Rules shall be registered in the applicable registry within ten business days
of the City Clerk's receipt of all such documents. The Clerk shall provide
written notice to the registrant confirming such registration. Upon
registration interested parties shall be entitled to receive all notices and
documents required to be delivered under these rules or as otherwise required
under the act with respect to the applicable Redevelopment Project Area. If the
City Clerk determines that a registrant's registration form and/or supporting
documentation is incomplete or does not comply with these registration rules,
the Clerk shall give written notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s).
The registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
Registration Form and supporting documentation.
   (G)   Renewal and termination. An interested person's registration shall
remain effective for a period of three years. At any time after such three year
period the City Clerk may provide written notice by regular mail to the
interested person stating that such registration shall terminate unless the
interested person renews such registration within 30 days of the Clerk's
mailing of written notice. To renew such registration, the interested person
shall, within such 30-day period, complete and submit the same registration
form and supporting documentation then required of initial registrants in order
to permit the Clerk to confirm such person's residency or such organization's
operations in the city. The registration of all individuals and organizations
whose registration form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely
manner and complies with these regulation rules shall be renewed for an
additional, consecutive three year period. If the City Clerk determines that a
registrant's renewal registration form and/or supporting documentation is
incomplete or does not comply with these registration rules, the Clerk shall
give written notice to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal
registration form submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The
registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
registration form and supporting documentation within 30 days of receipt of the
Clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the
interested person's receipt of the City Clerk's notice, the interested person's
registration shall be terminated. Any interested person whose registration is
terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first-time registrant.
   (H)   Amendment to registration. An interested party may amend its
registration by giving written notice to the City Clerk by certified mail of
any of the following: (i) a change in address for notice purposes; (ii) in the
case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact person; and (iii) a
termination of registration. Upon receipt of such notice, the Clerk shall
revise the applicable registry accordingly.
   (I)   Registries available for public inspection. Each registry shall be
available for public inspection during normal city business hours. The registry
shall include the name, address and telephone number of each interested person
and for organizations, the name and phone number of a designated contact
person.
   (J)   Notices to be sent to interested parties. Interested parties shall be
sent the following notices and any other notices required under the act with
respect to the applicable Redevelopment Project Area:
      (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public
hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan:
      (2)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not: (1) add additional parcels of
property to the proposed redevelopment project area; (2) substantially affect
the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; (3) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or (4)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households
will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days
following the city's adoption by ordinance of such changes.
      (3)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5 (c) of the act, notice of
amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: (1) add
additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project area; (2)
substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan; (3)
substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project; (4) increase the
total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan
by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was
adopted; (5) add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of
redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or (6) increase
the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of
the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households will exceed
ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following the
city's adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
      (4)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) of the act for redevelopment
plans or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten
or more inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited
residential units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report; such notice
shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after completion of
the certified audit report.
      (5)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the act for a proposed Redevelopment
Project Area that will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units,
such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the
date of such preliminary public meeting.
   (K)   Non interference. These registration rules shall not be used to
prohibit or otherwise interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and
individuals to register for receipt of information to which they are entitled
under the act.
   (L)   Amendment of registration rules. These registration rules may be
amended by the city subject to and consistent with the requirements of the act.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 5-7-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   GARBAGE DISPOSAL
      
52.   GAS SYSTEM
      
53.   WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Hook-ups for city utilities
   
50.02   Industrial Park; waiver of fees
§ 50.01 HOOK-UPS FOR CITY UTILITIES.
   This section is enacted pursuant to the policy of hooking-up to city
utilities to accomplish the following purposes.
   (A)   Outside city limits the meter must be placed by the water main, under
the inspection of the Superintendent’s discretion. The total expense will be
the land owner’s responsibility.
   (B)   No multiple meters will be allowed on a service line.
   (C)   If possible, persons must annex into the city limits.
   (D)   If not possible to annex into the city limits, it would be handled on
a case by case situation.
   (E)   No sewer or gas will be furnished outside city limits.
(Ord. 92-8, passed 10-7-1992)
§ 50.02 INDUSTRIAL PARK; WAIVER OF FEES.
   For fees and rates, see fees and rates set forth in §§
53.015,
53.020,
53.026,
53.040 through
53.043,
53.149,
53.154.
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Presumption
   
51.03   Disposal required
   
51.04   Rates established
   
51.05   Monthly charges
   
51.06   Discontinuance of service
   
51.07   Person responsible for payment
   
51.08   Lien
   
51.09   Other remedies
   
51.10   Exclusive method of disposition of garbage
Cross-reference:
   Placement of trash containers on the street for collection, see §
96.29
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Includes residue from fires used for cooking and for heating
buildings.
   GARBAGE. Includes wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food; wastes from handling, storage and sale of produce.
   PERSON. Each individual or group of individuals who reside together within
the city and within the same house, apartment, condominium, mobile home or
other abode shall collectively constitute a single person within the meaning of
this chapter. Each proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, cooperative,
corporation or other business entity which maintains a place of business within
the city limits, shall constitute a PERSON within the meaning of this chapter.
   REFUSE. Includes combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper,
cartons, boxes, barrels; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to,
metals, tin cans, dirt, glass, crockery, other mineral wastes, discarded
household goods and appliances (except air conditioners and refrigerators) and
contents of litter receptacles; but REFUSE does not mean earth and wastes from
building operations, wood excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, nor shall
it include solid wastes resulting from industrial processes and manufacturing
operations such as food processing wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps
and shavings, tires, white goods and foam products.
   USER. Each person who generates, creates or produces garbage, refuse or
ashes within the city and disposes of same through the garbage disposal service
contracted or provided by the city.
(1975 Code, § 39.01) (Ord. 93-7, passed 12-15-1993)
§ 51.02 PRESUMPTION.
   It shall be presumed that each person creates, produces or generates
garbage, refuse or ashes with the city.
(1975 Code, § 39.02)
§ 51.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Each person who creates, produces or generates any garbage, refuse or ashes
within the city must dispose of this garbage, refuse or ashes through the
scavenger service or garbage collection service contracted or provided by the
city.
(1975 Code, § 39.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 RATES ESTABLISHED.
   There be and there are hereby established rates or charges for the
collection and disposal of garbage, refuse and ashes. These rates shall be as
set by the city from time to time.
(1975 Code, § 39.04) (Ord. 93-7, passed 12-15-1993)
§ 51.05 MONTHLY CHARGES.
   Charges for the collection and disposal of garbage, refuse and ashes shall
be made each month of the calendar year. All bills are to be rendered as of the
first day of each month following the month for which the charges are made, and
shall be due and payable on the date of rendition thereof.
(1975 Code, § 39.05)
§ 51.06 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   All collection and disposal service shall be discontinued without further
notice if the rates or charges for such service are not paid within 30 days
after rendition of the bill therefor.
(1975 Code, § 39.06)
§ 51.07 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR PAYMENT.
   The rates and charges herein established shall be collected from each person
who is a user of the garbage collection service provided or contracted by the
city.
(1975 Code, § 39.07)
§ 51.08 LIEN.
   If any person responsible for payment of the rates and charges herein
established fails to pay the rates and charges within 30 days of rendition, the
city may place a lien upon the real estate of such person for the amount due
and owing.
(1975 Code, § 39.09)
§ 51.09 OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall exclude or impair any other existing civil or
criminal remedy the city may have against a person.
(1975 Code, § 39.10)
§ 51.10 EXCLUSIVE METHOD OF DISPOSITION OF GARBAGE.
   The city shall contract with and pay for the services of a waste disposal
contractor for the purpose of the collection and disposition of residential
garbage and refuse within the city. Said waste disposal services shall be the
exclusive method for the disposition of garbage and refuse from residential
properties within the city. Each residential customer within the city shall pay
the rates or charges established by the city for the collection and disposal of
garbage and refuse regardless of any period of non-use of waste disposal
services and regardless of whether any waste, garbage, or refuse has been
produced or generated at the residential property.
(Ord. 15-10, passed 12-16-2015)
CHAPTER 52: GAS SYSTEM
Section
Department
   
52.01   Department established
   
52.02   Gas Committee
   
52.03   Gas Superintendent
Regulations
   
52.15   Filing of applicant application
   
52.16   Specifications for regular gas service connections
   
52.17   All service shall be metered
   
52.18   Meter hook-up policy
   
52.19   Meters open to inspection
   
52.20   Meter reading conclusive
   
52.21   Test of meters
   
52.22   Separate meters for each distinct premises
   
52.23   City not liable for an interruption of service or supply
   
52.24   Connection with private lines; general rules and regulations
   
52.25   Regulations relative to customers piping
   
52.26   Rules to become part of contract
   
52.27   Extensions of gas mains and service
   
52.28   Tampering with meter
   
52.29   Application for service connections
   
52.30   Meter deposit
   
52.31   Cost of gas service connections
   
52.32   Temporary disconnection; reconnection charge
   
52.33   Gas rate
   
52.34   Special rates; no free service
   
52.35   Gas contract
   
52.36   Receipt of funds
   
52.37   Natural Gas Customer Information handout adopted
DEPARTMENT
§ 52.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government which
shall be known as the Gas Department. It shall consist of the Gas Committee,
the Gas Superintendent and the system’s engineer.
(1975 Code, § 17.01)
§ 52.02 GAS COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Gas shall exercise a general
supervision over the affairs of the gas system. It shall determine the needs
thereof and shall, from time to time, report its findings to the Mayor and City
Council, so that a full understanding thereof shall be had, and generally,
shall do all acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department. (Prior
to the adoption of the appropriation ordinance, the Committee shall prepare and
submit an estimate of the receipts and expenditures of the system for the
fiscal year.)
(1975 Code, § 17.02)
§ 52.03 GAS SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to manage and control all aspects
of the gas system. He or she shall recommend to the Committee the needs and
conditions of the gas system.
(1975 Code, § 17.03)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 FILING OF APPLIANCE APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall file an application for gas with the City Clerk, stating
the equipment to be connected and shall refile when future equipment is added,
showing all equipment installed or proposed.
(1975 Code, § 17.12)
§ 52.16 SPECIFICATIONS FOR REGULAR GAS SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   All gas service connections made to the gas mains of the distribution system
of the city shall be substantially as follows.
   (A)   The connection at the main shall consist of a valved service tee for
three-fourth inch ID field pipe. Valve tees shall be welded in a workmanlike
manner to the main. The connection with the service tee shall be made with a
black iron street ell, nipple and insulated union. Service lines shall consist
of three-fourth inch black iron pipe, coated and wrapped to protect it against
corrosion, which shall be laid approximately 18 inches below the ground surface
approximately one foot at or near the building to be serviced and fitted with a
three-fourth inch black iron stop cock. Prior to drilling the main for gas
service, the aforementioned service line shall be tested at 100 pounds
pressure. The regulator and meters shall be capable of handling a sufficient
volume of gas to serve the needs of the customer. All materials and
construction procedure shall conform to the latest standards of the American
Gas Association.
   (B)   Wherever it is necessary for service lines to cross under high-type
pavements, the service line shall be installed by boring or jacking the service
line through underneath the pavement from a point three feet outside of the
pavement to three feet beyond the edge of the payment.
   (C)   All lines and fittings shall be capable of withstanding a working
pressure of not less than 125 pounds per square inch and shall be so rated by
the manufacturer. One fitting of the meter swivel shall be insulated.
   (D)   Service connections, where the gas consumption will be in excess of
the capacity of the above specifications, shall be made in the manner specified
by the engineer or Superintendent.
(1975 Code, § 17.13) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.17 ALL SERVICE SHALL BE METERED.
   (A)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of the positive type and
shall be American Gas Association approved.
   (B)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at all times for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings wherever practical. Indoor installation
must be vented with an adequate vent extending to the outside.
(1975 Code, § 17.14) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.18 METER HOOK-UP POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the policy of hooking-up to city
utilities to accomplish the following purposes:
      (1)   Outside city limits the meter must be placed by the water main,
under the inspection of the Superintendent’s discretion. The total expense will
be the land owner’s responsibility;
      (2)   No multiple meters will be allowed on a service line;
      (3)   If possible persons must annex into the city limits;
      (4)   If not possible to annex into the city limits, it would be handled
on a case by case situation; and
      (5)   No sewer or gas will be furnished outside city limits.
   (B)   The following monthly charges shall prevail for gas usage and
consumption:
      (1)   Inside corporate limits:
         (a)   Beginning May 1, 2014, residential customers will be charged a
flat meter rate of $7 per month regardless of gas consumption. Business
customers will be charged a flat meter rate of $13;
         (b)   Beginning May 1, 2015, residential customers will be charged a
flat meter rate of $8 per month regardless of gas consumption. Business
customers will be charged a flat meter rate of $14;
         (c)   Beginning May 1, 2016, residential customers will be charged a
flat meter rate of $9 per month regardless of gas consumption. Business
customers will be charged a flat meter rate of $15; and
         (d)   1.   Beginning January 1, 2024, large commercial customers will
be charged a flat meter rate of $100 per month regardless of gas consumption.
            2.   A “large commercial customer” shall for purposes of this
chapter be defined as any governmental, commercial, or industrial business or
customer with a meter that permits a flow rate of natural gas in excess of
11,000 cubic feet per hour or who accepts delivery of natural gas through the
meter at a pressure exceeding 50 pounds.
         (e)   1.   In addition to the flat meter rates set forth in division
(B)(1)(c) and (d) above, there shall be imposed a monthly delivery charge on
all natural gas delivered to customers that shall be atall times sufficient to
cover or bear the cost of operation and maintenance of the gas system,
including the depreciation cost or replacement cost of capital equipment, and
bond and interest cost, if any.
            2.   The monthly delivery charges shall be expressed in dollars and
cents per term and shall be a combination of the following:
               a.   A base rate; and
               b.   The cost of natural gas delivered at the city gate.
         (f)   Beginning January 1, 2024, the base rate imposed on residential
and business customers, other than large commercial customers, shall be $4 per
MCF of natural gas flowing through the meter.
         (g)   Beginning January 1, 2024, the base rate for large commercial
customers shall be $2 per MCF of natural gas flowing through the meter.
         (h)   In the event a large commercial customer fails to use at least
20,000 MCF of natural gas in a calendar year, such customer shall commencing
the following calendar year pay a base rate equal to that charged to
residential and business customers until such time as the large commercial
customer has consumed 20,000 MCF of natural gas in a calendar year at which
time the base rate for large commercial customers shall be imposed again.
      (2)   The following rules and guidelines apply to gas rates.
         (a)   The consumer shall pay no less than the minimum meter charge in
the event the consumer requests temporary service disconnection.
         (b)   Gas consumption shall be calculated from meter reading and
billed in increments of 100 cubic feet rounded downward to the lower thousand,
unless and until the meters or computers in use shall become capable of more
precise measurements.
(1975 Code, § 17.15) (Ord. 14-01, passed 3-19-2014; Ord. 23-04, passed 12-20-
2023)
§ 52.19 METERS OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   At all reasonable hours, meters, regulators, fittings fixtures and
appurtenances connected with the system and located on private property shall
be open to inspection by the proper officers and employees of the city. Any
part found to be defective or not in compliance with the provisions of this
code shall be immediately repaired or corrected. Service may be discontinued at
any time when conditions of the privately owned facilities create danger or a
hazard.
(1975 Code, § 17.16)
§ 52.20 METER READING CONCLUSIVE.
   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by the
meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the liability of the city, shall be
included under the liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive provided
that whenever the city shall find any meter not registering, then an average
bill may be rendered based at the option of the city, on either the nearest
previous three months average use, when the meter was in good order, or based
on the same month or months of the preceding year. Whenever the city shall have
reason to believe that a meter is not registering correctly, then an average
bill as stated above may be rendered and the meter removed for testing. If such
average bill should prove to be incorrectly estimated, either by actual
testing, or by actual gas consumption, after being replaced by a corrected
meter, then such bill shall be compared to the same.
(1975 Code, § 17.17) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.21 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter, then in use on their premises. Such tests will be made by the city
without charge, provided that such meter has not been tested within two years
preceding such a request. In case a consumer requests an accuracy test of a
meter which has been previously tested within two years, the consumer shall be
required prior to making test to deposit with the city the sum of $5, to cover
the cost of removing, testing and replacing such meter.
   (B)   In the event such meter is found by testing, to register incorrectly
at full capacity, by more than 2%, then another accurate meter shall be
substituted and the test deposit shall be refunded. Past gas bills shall be
adjusted by refund or credit of such percentage of the amount of gas bills for
a period of not more than two months previous to such test.
   (C)   In the event that the meter is found to be registering correctly, the
consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and such funds shall be deposited in
the gas operating funds of the city.
(1975 Code, § 17.19) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.22 SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT PREMISES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any gas service pipe or
transmit gas supplied by the natural gas system of the city into two distinct
premises, from one meter. Apartment buildings having separate dwelling units
may be served from a single meter. Duplex dwellings shall be serviced from
individual meters.
(1975 Code, § 17.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.23 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR AN INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for any
operating reason. In all cases where possible, a reasonable notice of the
circumstances will be given to the customers, but in an emergency, the gas may
be shut off without notice. Such necessary repairs or work will be made by the
city as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall not be held responsible or
liable because of any shut off or discontinuance of service for any direct or
resultant damages to any person, company or customer.
   (B)   In the event of such discontinuance of gas service, the city will make
every attempt to safeguard the customer and service shall not be renewed until
the city authorities have purged the lines and put into service all automatic
controls and pilots. The cost of purging of lines, relighting pilots and
checking automatic controls will be borne by the city and the customer will not
be liable. Where the nature of the customers operations are such that an
interruption of service might create a hazard or large economic loss, such
customer shall provide facilities for standby service if desired.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut off or interfered with by reasons of any city
street improvement, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or damage of any kind either to the customers
adjacent to or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damage to property
due to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the city without
cost to the customer.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither insure
nor be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages direct or
indirect by any reason of any fire, or any other cause and all gas service
furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents,
fire, strikes, riots or any other causes.
(1975 Code, § 17.21) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.24 CONNECTION WITH PRIVATE LINES; GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever a connection is made with a private line, such service shall
be metered at the point of such connection and the customer requesting such
service shall provide a satisfactory location for the placing of such metering
devices, regulators and other materials and equipment required. Such private
lines shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the city prior to
making the necessary service connections.
   (B)   The city shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal or
replacement of any pipe, fixtures or apparatus, which is considered to be
faulty, inadequate or hazardous; provided, however, that this provision shall
not obligate the city in any way or manner. The city shall have the right to
refuse or to discontinue gas service without notice to its customers if the
city finds any apparatus or appliance in operation which would be detrimental
to the efficient operation of the existing facilities.
   (C)   All persons, firms, corporations and customers are strictly forbidden
to attach any electrical ground wire to any fixture or piping which is or may
be connected to any gas service pipe, meter or main belonging to the city. The
city will hold the owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage
to its property or injury to the employees of the city caused by such ground
wire. Any and all customers, persons, firms or corporations shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately and if such ground wires are not removed
after 24 hours’ written notice, the city, through its officials, may enter the
property and remove such ground wires and the customer shall pay all costs. All
questions and complaints shall be made to the Gas Department of the city, who
shall be responsible for the proper investigation. The Department shall be
required to make a full report to the customer in all such cases, a copy of
which shall be filed with the City Clerk and reported by him or her to the City
Council at the next regular meeting. Any disrespectful or unwarranted acts of
the city employees shall be reported immediately. All employees of the city are
strictly forbidden to demand or accept any tips, gratuity or other personal
compensation for any services whatsoever rendered during working hours.
(1975 Code, § 17.22)
§ 52.25 REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMERS PIPING.
   (A)   All house piping shall be of rigid construction. The pipe from the
outlet of the meter shall be of rigid construction. The pipe from the outlet of
the meter shall be of iron pipe of not less than one inch inside diameter and
shall enter the house wall or be securely fastened to the wall by means of
suitable metal strap or clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from the
outlet connection of the meter, and if extended along the outside wall shall be
fastened to the wall at intervals sufficient to make the piping rigid
throughout. In instances where piping from meter enters the wall, the opposite
end shall be securely fastened so that pipe will not turn when fittings at the
meter are put on. The piping from the meter through or along the wall shall
constitute, and hereinafter be called the “house pipe manifold”; the one-inch
manifold will be used where the total hourly demand for gas does not exceed 400
cubic feet per hour. Where the total hourly demand of a building or house is in
excess of 400 cubic feet of gas per hour, the City Engineering Department must
be consulted for specifications for the house pipe manifold.
   (B)   From any house pipe manifold, pipe to the various appliances shall be
of the same dimensions as the fitting on the appliance where such appliance is
designed and approved for natural gas. Where appliances are to be converted
from liquified petroleum gas, pipe from the manifold to the appliance shall be
of such size as would be approved by the American Gas Association for natural
gas appliances having the same B.T.U. input rating.
   (C)   From the house pipe manifold, any appliance pipe may be extended at
maximum distance of 40 lineal feet. For each 90-degree turn in the appliance
pipe, three lineal feet shall be deducted from the maximum distance. Copper
pipe may be substituted for iron pipe from the manifold to the appliance.
Copper pipe must have O.D. dimension equivalent to I.D. of standard iron pipe.
Only type K copper pipe may be used. All copper fittings must be of flare type
only. When copper tubing is used, insulated copper to iron fittings must be
used at the meter end and appliance end of the tubing.
   (D)   No connection will be made with any house type manifold that has not
been tested for leakage.
   (E)   All gas conversion burners to be installed shall be A.G.A. approved,
all designed heating plants shall be A.G.A. approved and the manufacturer’s
recommendations for the installation shall be followed.
   (F)   No conversion burner shall be installed in an old or inefficient warm
air furnace which is in poor repair or in an old or leaky boiler which is in
poor repair. Test for leakage shall be with oil of wintergreen or smoke bomb on
any warm air heating plant before installing a conversion burner. Furnaces must
be reset if found to be leaking.
   (G)   Before connecting a flue or vent connector into any chimney, the
chimney shall be examined to ascertain that it is properly constructed, clear,
clean and will freely conduct the products of combustion from the gas heating
appliance in question to the outer air.
   (H)   All appliances, excepting cook stoves, with over 8,000 B.T.U. per hour
input rating must be vented. No un-vented appliance, excepting cook stoves,
shall be placed in the same room with a gas refrigerator. An approved type vent
pipe and draft diverter shall be installed on all gas burning space heating and
water heating appliances. Vent pipe shall be installed with not less than one-
half inch riser per foot of horizontal run. General rules for venting as
prescribed by A.G.A. must be followed.
   (I)   All positive type catches on firing door shall be eliminated and a
hinge pin and spring be installed.
   (J)   All heating plants of the down draft type shall be vented by
connecting a one-inch black iron pipe from the highest point of the flue
passage of the heating plant to the flue pipe. The one-inch iron pipe shall be
welded or screwed into the furnace in a manner to assure no leakage.
   (K)   A gas shut-off shall be installed in the fuel line directly above the
appliance manifold connection. Said shut-off to be plainly marked. Gas pilot
line shall be connected to fuel line ahead of main shut-off valve.
   (L)   A high limit control shall be installed on all heating plants. A low
water cut-off control shall be installed on all gas-fired steam boilers.
   (M)   All gas burning appliances shall be installed in a location in which
the facilities for ventilation permit satisfactory combustion of gas and proper
venting under normal conditions of use. The necessary measures shall be taken
to ascertain that the above ventilation conditions are present.
   (N)   The final tie in of the gas line to the meter shall be made by the
city. Before the final tie is made, it shall be the duty of the City Gas
Department to make a complete inspection.
   (O)   The following bulletins: Standards of the National Board of Fire
Underwriters for the Installation of Gas Piping and Gas Appliances in Buildings
as contained in NBFU No. 54; and American Standard Installations of Gas Piping
and Gas Appliances in Buildings, bulletin dated 1954, as published by the
American Association, Inc., are incorporated herein by reference and made a
part hereof, as and to the extent that they had been fully set forth at length
herein.
(1975 Code, § 17.23) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.26 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   All the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities of the
natural gas system of the city and the consumption of gas therefrom shall
become a part of the contract with every gas customer, and every gas customer
shall be subject thereto and bound thereby.
(1975 Code, § 17.24) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955)
§ 52.27 EXTENSIONS OF GAS MAINS AND SERVICE.
   (A)   The city shall not be required to extend service within the city
limits, a distance of more than 100 feet per customer and only then when
sufficient funds are available in excess of those required for the proper
operation of the system. Extension of mains and service outside of the city
limits shall be subject to approval of the Council and shall be also subject to
all of the rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein or as may be
amended.
   (B)   Where service is desired when funds for extensions are not available
and/or when the distance is in excess of the 100 feet per customer noted above,
such extension can be made if the applicant will deposit with the city, the
estimated cost of making the extension, less 100 feet, when funds are
available, or the entire amount when funds are not available. The amounts so
deposited shall be refunded to such consumer or consumers within a period of
five years at the rate of 25% of each monthly billing until the total deposited
has been refunded. Such deposit shall be interest-free. In the event that the
amount deposited is greater or less than the actual cost of the extension, such
excess or deficiency shall be corrected prior to giving service.
   (C)   Deposits made under the provisions of this section shall not exempt
the applicant from the payment of all other charges required by the Code.
   (D)   Amounts received by the city for such extensions shall be deposited in
the Meter Deposit Fund and payments for refunds shall likewise be paid from the
same fund.
(1975 Code, § 17.25) (Ord. 80-6, passed 9-17-1980)
§ 52.28 TAMPERING WITH METER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to break
the seal of any meter or in any manner to make any alterations, changes or
repairs on the same, or to open any mains, laterals, service pipe, stopcocks,
valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper with or attempt to do any work
on either or any of them without authority of the city or its properly
authorized agent. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section or who shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property
connected with the gas system of the city shall be subject to the penalty
prescribed by this code.
(1975 Code, § 17.26) (Ord. 280, passed 2-15-1955) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.29 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to make a gas tap or service
connection with the natural gas system of the city shall file a written
application in the office of the City Clerk. Applications for gas service lines
to vacant property will be subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   In the event such application is made by an agent for the owner, then
such application shall also be accompanied by the written authority of the
owner to the agent for the making of the application. Where service lines are
laid on private property, an easement shall be executed by the owner thereof
providing for the installation and maintenance of the proposed service lines to
be installed and maintained by the city and for the extension along or across
such property for making other service connections from the same service line.
(1975 Code, § 17.27) (Ord. 80-2, passed 3-5-1980)
§ 52.30 METER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each rental property application shall be accompanied with a deposit
of the sum of $100, to be known as a meter deposit charge.
   (B)   This meter deposit charge shall be deposited in the Gas Operation and
Maintenance Fund and in the event any customer discontinues service and has
paid in full all amounts due for gas or service charges, then the full amount
of the deposit shall be refunded; however, in the event that any amounts are
due from the customer, either for gas or service charges, then such amounts
shall be deducted and paid into the proper fund and the balance shall be
refunded.
   (C)   Any customer who has paid all amounts due within the specified period
of two years shall, upon application to the city, be refunded his or her
deposit, without interest.
   (D)   The city shall reimburse $100 to any person who has paid the sum of
$200 gas meter deposit since 1983, when this section was last amended;
provided, the city shall return the sum of $100 only if the customer’s account
is current and paid in full.
(1975 Code, § 17.28) (Ord. 83-9, passed 10-5-1983)
§ 52.31 COST OF GAS SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For all regular three-fourth inch taps and service connections, the
city will furnish and install a valve, service tee, service pipe, connection,
fittings, regulator, meter and necessary stopcocks for the sum of $200.The
maximum length of service line to be installed at this cost shall be 75 feet
from the property line, and such additional lengths required are to be paid for
by the customer at the rate of $2 per lineal foot and shall apply to the
relocation of gas meters. The maximum length of free service line may be waived
by the Council to adopt to special conditions or needs. The Council shall have
the right to designate the manner in which payments for service connections
shall be made.
   (B)   Where service lines can be installed in a location which will permit
the servicing of two customers, the maximum length to be installed from the
property line shall be 150 feet.
   (C)   For business or industrial purposes, or for special space heating
requirements requiring larger than three-fourth inch service pipe with
incidental larger fittings, stopcocks, regulators and meters, these service
connections shall be made in a like manner and the service line in excess of 75
feet from the property line shall be paid for at actual cost to the city,
provided that upon application therefor, special permission may be granted by
the City Council, authorizing the applicant to make such service connections at
his or her own expense under the supervision of and subject to such reasonable
conditions and regulations as may be prescribed by such permit; none of these
conditions are to be inconsistent with the provisions of this code.
(1975 Code, § 17.29) (Ord. 83-2, passed 7-6-1983)
§ 52.32 TEMPORARY DISCONNECTION; RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   In all instances in which gas service is temporarily disconnected at
the request of the consumer, or for failure to pay for gas service, there shall
be a charge assessed for the reconnection of such service to the consumer. The
charge shall be $25. Reconnections shall be made only during regular business
hours (Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.)
excluding holidays observed by the city.
   (B)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his of her bill shall have a
right to present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to
the city official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
(1975 Code, § 17.29.1) (Ord. 2005-01, passed 6-1-2005; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-
2011)
§ 52.33 GAS RATE.
   (A)   The rates and charges for the use and services of the municipal gas
utility of the city are hereby established. Such rates and charges shall be
made and collected against each consumer who shall directly or indirectly
receive gas from the municipal utility.
   (B)   In those instances in which one utility meter services a building or
premises containing two or more residences or businesses, the rate and charges
   (C)   The consumer shall pay no less than the minimum monthly charge in the
event the consumer requests temporary service disconnection.
   (D)   All statements not paid within 15 days after date of rendition are
subject to an additional 10% charge.
   (E)   All billings are subject to a 5% Illinois gas utility tax.
   (F)   The City Council shall have the right to establish special rates for
gas service to industrial or special use customers.
   (G)   Any increase in cost of gas from Trunkline Gas Company shall be passed
directly to customer billing.
(1975 Code, § 17.30) (Ord. 80-7, passed 11-19-1980; Ord. 83-2, passed 7-6-1983;
Ord. 23-04, passed 12-20-2023)
§ 52.34 SPECIAL RATES; NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service of the gas utility shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall
be non-discriminatory, provided that the City Council reserves the right to
impose special rates and charges in cases where particular circumstances render
the regular rates inadequate or unjust. If the city should elect to supply
itself with gas for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged
against the city and payment made from the funds thereof to the Gas Fund.
(1975 Code, § 17.31) (Ord. 80-2, passed 3-5-1980)
§ 52.35 GAS CONTRACT.
   The provisions of §§
53.015,
53.016 and
53.017 are hereby adopted as part of the Gas Code, the provisions thereof shall
be controlling on all applicants for gas service.
(1975 Code, § 17.32) (Ord. 80-2, passed 3-5-1980)
§ 52.36 RECEIPT OF FUNDS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to set up and maintain a proper
system of accounts and records separate from all other accounts and records,
showing the amount of revenues received from the gas system and the application
of such revenues and all financial transactions in connections therewith.
(1975 Code, § 17.33) (Ord. 80-2, passed 3-5-1980)
§ 52.37 NATURAL GAS CUSTOMER INFORMATION HANDOUT ADOPTED.
   The Mayor and City Council do hereby adopt the Natural Gas Customer
Information handout.
(Res. passed 1-16-2008)
CHAPTER 53: WATER AND SEWER
Section
Department Established
   
53.001   Department
   
53.002   Committee on Water and Sewer
   
53.003   Superintendent of Water and Sewer
   
53.004   Duties of Superintendent
Rates and Regulations
   
53.015   Contract for water and sewer services; customer accepts service
   
53.016   Liability for charges
   
53.017   Estimated charge
   
53.018   Consumer lists
   
53.019   Inaccurate meter
   
53.020   Utility deposits
   
53.021   Building unit defined
   
53.022   Sewage rates
   
53.023   Water rates
   
53.024   Adequacy charge reviewed
   
53.025   Special connection charge
   
53.026   Special utility rate consideration
Utility Tap-On Rates
   
53.040   City application
   
53.041   Water tap fees
   
53.042   Sewer tap fees
   
53.043   Gas tap fees
Sewer Provisions
   
53.055   Definitions
   
53.056   Deposit of wastes prohibited
   
53.057   Sewage in natural outlet
   
53.058   Private system unlawful
   
53.059   Connection to system required
Individual Sewer Systems
   
53.070   Sewers; individual systems
   
53.071   Requirements for individual sewer systems
   
53.072   Location
   
53.073   Construction
   
53.074   Minimum capacities for septic tanks serving an individual dwelling
   
53.075   Minimum standards for disposal field
   
53.076   Distribution box
   
53.077   Buried sand filters
   
53.078   Percolation
   
53.079   Operation and maintenance
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.090   Disturbing system unlawful
   
53.091   Costs and expenses
   
53.092   Separate sewer; exception
   
53.093   Old sewer
   
53.094   Construction methods
   
53.095   Elevation
   
53.096   Prohibited connections
   
53.097   Building and Plumbing Code applicable
   
53.098   Inspection
   
53.099   Protection of property
Use of Public Sewers
   
53.110   Discharge prohibited
   
53.111   Storm water
   
53.112   Regulations of wastes
   
53.113   Harmful effects of certain materials
   
53.114   Harmful wastes; approval
   
53.115   Interceptors; grease
   
53.116   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
53.117   Industrial wastes; control manhole
   
53.118   Measurements and tests
   
53.119   Special arrangement
Inspections
   
53.130   Damage
   
53.131   Inspection
   
53.132   Liability of city
   
53.133   Private property; entering
Water System
   
53.145   Application for services
   
53.146   City’s responsibility and liability
   
53.147   User responsibility
   
53.148   Extension of mains
   
53.149   Change in occupancy
   
53.150   Electrical ground wires
   
53.151   Shortage and purity of supply
   
53.152   Noncompliance with rules
   
53.153   Fire hydrants
   
53.154   Rate schedule
 
   
53.999   Penalty
DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
§ 53.001 DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be an executive department of the city, known as the Water and
Sewer Department. It shall include the Water and Sewer Committee, appointed by
the Mayor and its employees. The designated office shall be the City Hall.
(1975 Code, § 38.01)
§ 53.002 COMMITTEE ON WATER AND SEWER.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Water and Sewer shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Water and Sewer Department. It
shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall from time to time,
report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding
thereof shall be had, and generally, shall do all acts necessary to promote the
efficiency of the department.
(1975 Code, § 38.02)
§ 53.003 SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND SEWER.
   The Superintendent shall be subject to the supervision of the Water and
Sewer Committee. The Superintendent shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and
with the consent of the City Council and shall hold his or her office until his
or her successor shall be appointed and qualified. He or she shall receive such
salary as may be provided by resolution of the Council at the time of his or
her appointment.
(1975 Code, § 38.03)
§ 53.004 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent to manage and control all aspects
of the water and sewer systems.
(1975 Code, § 38.04)
RATES AND REGULATIONS
§ 53.015 CONTRACT FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICES; CUSTOMER ACCEPTS SERVICE.
   The rates, rules and regulations contained in this chapter shall constitute
and be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or
corporation who is supplied with water and sewer services from the water and
sewer systems, and every person, company or corporation, hereinafter called a
“customer” who accepts and uses water, gas or sewer services, shall be held to
have consented to be bound thereby.
   (A)   Not liable for interrupted service. The utility will endeavor at all
times to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, but in case the
supply of service shall be interrupted, or irregular, or defective, or fail
from causes beyond its control, or through ordinary negligence of employees,
servants or agents, the utility shall not be liable therefor.
   (B)   Using utilities without paying. Any person using gas, water or sewer
services from the city without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of
breaking any gas or water meter, or appurtenances, or by-passing the meter,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum as
is provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Destroying or obstructing property. A person found guilty of defacing,
obstructing, tampering, injuring or destroying or in any manner, limiting the
use of availability of any fixture, meter or any property of the utilities, or
erecting signs on the property of the utilities without permission, shall, upon
conviction of such act, be fined as provided in §
10.99.
   (D)   Service obtained by fraud. All contracts for gas, water and sewer
service must be made in the name of the head of the household, firm or
corporation using the established spelling of that person’s or firm’s name.
Attempts to obtain service by the use of other names, different spellings or by
substituting other persons’ or firms’ names will be considered a subterfuge and
service will be denied. If service had been discontinued because of non-payment
of bills or any unpaid obligation, and service again has been obtained through
subterfuge, misrepresentation or fraud, that service will be promptly
disconnected and the whole or such part of the advanced payment, as may be
necessary to satisfy the unpaid obligation shall be retained by the city and
credited to the proper account.
   (E)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the Department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (F)   Discontinuing utility services.
      (1)   Utility services shall be deemed to have been supplied to any
property connected to the utility systems during any month, unless the consumer
shall have given written notice to the City Clerk prior to the first of the new
billing month. Upon the receipt of such notice, utility service shall be
discontinued and shall not again be resumed until a request for the utility
service has been made.
      (2)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his of her bill shall
have a right to present orally or in writing his or her complaint and
contentions to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order that the customer's service not be discontinued
and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the customer's
complaint.
   (G)   Removal of meters. All meters shall remain the property of the
Department and may be removed from the customer’s premises at any time without
notice for the purpose of testing and repairing the same or upon discontinuance
of service. Upon discovery of any unlawful act by any customer, his or her
agent, or employee herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with any other
rules and regulations of the department, such service shall be disconnected.
   (H)   Payment; penalty. City utility meters will be read by the public works
employees on or about the first day of each month. If weather conditions or
other circumstances prevent the reading of meters, then each meter will be
estimated by the city. Bills will be mailed by the fifteenth day of the month
and will be delinquent on the first day of the following month. If a bill is
not paid by the first of the following month of billing, a penalty equal to 5%
of the amount due on said bills shall be added thereto. This penalty shall be
in addition to the charge heretofore established for utility services. Bills
shall be paid to the Treasurer of the city or the designated representative.
   (I)   Notice before disconnect.
      (1)   All utility bills are due and payable by the first day of the
month. If a utility bill is not paid by the ninth of the month, a notice before
disconnect will be mailed to customers as a final request for payment before
utility services are disconnected. If the ninth day of the month falls on a
non-working day for the city, the city will mail the notice before disconnect
on the last business day prior to the ninth.
      (2)   If a utility bill remains unpaid by the end of business on the
fifteenth of the month, the city will initiate turn-offs for non-payment of
services at 8:00 a.m. on the sixteenth of the month, and will initiate
reconnections at 1:00 p.m. for same-day payments. The city reserves the right
to alter this disconnection policy wherein the schedule of payments due and/or
disconnection falls on weekend or holiday and/or mitigating circumstances
warrant otherwise.
   (J)   Lien on property. In the event the charges for utility services,
including any penalty then due are not paid within 30 days after the rendition
of the bill for such service, such charges and penalties shall constitute liens
upon the real estate for which such services are supplied, and the City Clerk
is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn statements showing such
delinquent charges in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the County, and
the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for the payment of such
charges and penalties for such services.
   (K)   Reconnect charge. If a utility is disconnected to any customer for
non-payment of a bill, utility service shall not be reconnected until all
charges and penalties have been paid. The city shall charge a reconnection fee
of $50 for water/sewer meter and $25 for gas meter that have been shut off for
non-payment. The city will initiate turn-offs for nonpayment of services at 8:
00 a.m. on the sixteenth of the month and will initiate reconnections at 1:00
p.m. The city reserves the right to alter this disconnection policy wherein the
schedule of payments due and/or disconnection falls on weekends, holidays and/
or when mitigating customer circumstances warrant otherwise.
   (L)   Resale. No water or gas shall be resold or distributed by the customer
thereof from the city supply to any premises other than that for which
application has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of
emergency.
(1975 Code, § 38.05) (Ord. 78-5, passed 2-6-1978; Ord. 85-9, passed 6-19-1985;
Ord. 2005-01, passed 6-1-2005; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises receiving utility services,
the occupant of such premises and the user of the services shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of the services to such lot, parcel of land or
premises and all services are rendered to the premises by the city only on the
condition that such owner, occupant and user shall be jointly and severally
liable therefore to the city.
(1975 Code, § 38.06)
§ 53.017 ESTIMATED CHARGE.
   Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of repair, or from any cause,
fails to properly register the water or gas passing through the same, the
customer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding time of the
previous year. If no record of the previous year exists, then it shall be the
duty of the Superintendent to estimate the amount of water or gas consumed
during the time the meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall be charged
with such estimated amount.
(1975 Code, § 38.07)
§ 53.018 CONSUMER LISTS.
   It is hereby made the Clerk’s duty to prepare or cause to be prepared a
complete and accurate list of all premises and properties receiving utility
services, showing the name and address of the occupant, and the owner of the
same. The list shall be kept up-to-date, and shall be corrected from time to
time to allow changes in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or
premises.
(1975 Code, § 38.09)
§ 53.019 INACCURATE METER.
   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be accepted as correct by
both the customer and the Department, except when the meter has been found to
be registering inaccurately or has ceased to register. In either case, the
meter will be promptly repaired by the Department, and the quantity used will
be determined by the registration of the meter in the same period for the
preceding year.
(1975 Code, § 38.11)
§ 53.020 UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential. When any application is made for utility services in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if the applicant is not the
record owner of the property for which service is requested, the customer shall
deposit with his or her application for service the sum of $200 for water/sewer
service and $100 for gas service.
   (B)   Commercial. In the case of a commercial or industrial user, the
advanced payment shall be a minimum of $200, or an amount equal to one month of
estimated consumption of water/sewage and $100 for gas service.
   (C)   Security for payment; no interest. The deposits made under the
provisions of this chapter shall be held by the city as security for the
payment of utilities used by the applicant upon the premises to which his or
her application pertains, and/or applied against other outstanding premises to
which the customer resided wherein application was made for utility services.
Despite the nature of the utility deposits, the city reserves the right to
apply the total amount deposited towards any default on balances owed the city
in accordance with this chapter. Customer deposits shall earn no interest.
   (D)   Waiver of deposit. In lieu of deposits, customers may have a property
owner residing within city limits, who is in good standing with the city via a
consistent payment history, may sign a waiver of deposit wherein said property
owner promises to pay any and all outstanding balances for the customer should
he or she default on balances due.
   (E)   Return of deposit. Utility deposits shall be returned to customers
after the final bill is paid in full and/or after customer has an established
satisfactory payment history of at least two years with the city.
(1975 Code, § 38.12) (Ord. 83-4, passed 7-6-1983; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 53.021 BUILDING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a building under one roof, be it an
apartment or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein, shall be deemed an individual customer
and such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one
minimum water and sewer account, according to the number of families or
individual residents residing therein.
(1975 Code, § 38.14)
§ 53.022 SEWAGE RATES.
   The following monthly charges shall prevail for sewer usage.
   (A)   Inside corporate limits, the wastewater rates to be paid by users of
the city’s sewage system are based upon the monthly consumption per 1,000
gallons of water. Customers will be charged a minimum fee no less than $22.50
for the first 2,000 gallons of water. Customers will then be charged at a rate
of $9 per 1,000 gallons of usage discharged thereafter.
   (B)   Outside of corporate limits, the wastewater rates to be paid by users
of the city’s sewage system are based upon the monthly consumption per 1,000
gallons of water. Customers will be charged a minimum fee of no less than $29
for the first 2,000 gallons of water. Customers will then be charged at a rate
of $10 per 1,000 gallons of usage discharged thereafter.
(1975 Code, §38.15) (Ord. 09-07, passed 12-2-2009; Ord. 16-03, passed 2-17-
2016; Ord. 20-07, passed 9-16-2020; Ord. 22-06, passed 9-7-2022)
§ 53.023 WATER RATES.
   The following monthly charges shall prevail for water consumption.
   (A)   Inside corporate limits: first 2,000 gallons of water will be charged
a minimum fee at a rate of no less than $22.50. Customers will then be charged
at a rate of $9 for every 1,000 gallons of usage thereafter.
   (B)   Outside corporate limits: first 2,000 gallons of water will be charged
a minimum fee at a rate of no less than $29. Customers will then be charged at
a rate of $10 for every 1,000 gallons of usage thereafter.
(1975 Code, §38.16) (Ord. 09-06, passed 12-2-2009; Ord. 09-08, passed 12-2-
2009; Ord. 16-02, passed 2-17-2016; Ord. 20-06, passed 9-16-2020; Ord. 22-05,
passed 9-7-2022)
§ 53.024 ADEQUACY CHARGE REVIEWED.
   The adequacy sewer service charge shall be reviewed, not less often than
annually by certified public accountants for the city in their annual audit
report. Any percentage change (increase or decrease) in the local capital cost
or in a change in operation and maintenance cost including replacement costs
based on the latest fiscal year audit, which are passed directly to all utility
bills, shall be determined by the Council.
(Ord. 09-07, passed 12-2-2009)
§ 53.025 SPECIAL CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   Special connection charge.
      (1)   A connection charge in the amount of $5,000 is imposed and shall be
collected from new or additional users of the 1996 extension of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city, the location of which is described
as follows: approximately located within 1,000 feet extending south from
Illinois 146 and 350 feet East of County Road 5 (FAS 929) in the Northwest
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 13 South, Range 3 East
of the Third Principal Meridian.
      (2)   A connection charge in the amount of $2,500 is imposed and shall be
collected from new or additional users of the 2,000 extension of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city, the location of which is described
as follows: a part of the south half of the Southeast Quarter of the Northeast
Quarter and the north half of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
Section 4, Township 13 South, Range 3 East of the Third Principal Meridian
described as beginning at a point on the north right-of-way line of Illinois
Route 146 said point being 1,025 feet west of the east line of Section 4,
Township 13 South, Range 3 East, and running North 01°21’ 34” west a distance
of 490 feet, thence south 87°20’10” east a distance of 580 feet to the
terminating point of an eight-inch sanitary sewer.
      (3)   A connection charge in the amount of $3,000 is imposed and shall be
collected from new or additional users of the 2001 extension of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city, which now or shall connect to the
preexisting sewerage system by means of the collection well and pump mechanism
known as the Old Bloomfield Lift Station, the location of which is described as
follows: in the Northwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 33,
Township 12 South, Range 3 East, at a point approximately 33 feet north of the
centerline of the Old Bloomfield Road, approximately 306 feet east of its
intersection with the centerline of U.S. Highway 45.
   (B)   Due date of payment. The connection charge is due and payable in
advance or no later than the time when use of the municipal water and sewerage
system commences. Subsequent discontinuance of service shall not relieve an
owner or user from liability from this connection charge once the service has
been connected and usage commenced.
   (C)   Charge constitutes lien. The lien for unpaid charges described in §
53.015(J) applies also to any unpaid connection charge imposed in this section.
(Ord. 96-01, passed 2-7-1996; Ord. 2000-02, passed 6-21-2000; Ord. 2001-10,
passed 10-3-2001)
§ 53.026 SPECIAL UTILITY RATE CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to make special charges for water,
sewer and gas services supplied to properties not covered by the above rates or
those rates established in subsequent ordinance amendments, or which, in the
judgment of the City Council, should be charged special rates pertaining and
based upon mitigating circumstances.
   (B)   The city may give special consideration to sewer charges when water
usage has been determined to not have entered the city’s wastewater system,
such as when filling swimming pools, watering gardens or with residential
plumbing breaks/leaks and the like. Customers must notify City Hall personnel
when aforementioned usage will occur allowing the Superintendent an opportunity
to verify the usage does not enter the wastewater system. Adjustments will be
determined based on the customer’s usage history. Customers without an
established history may pay at least the minimum basic utility rate. Water
usage determined to be caused by and/or having entered the city sewer system
will not be adjusted.
(1975 Code, § 38.20) (Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
UTILITY TAP-ON RATES
§ 53.040 CITY APPLICATION.
   Permission must be secured from the Superintendent and City Council prior to
a person connecting to the city utility systems. All utility taps and/or
service connections made to the mains of the waterworks system and sewer system
shall conform to the regulations and standards of the State Plumbing Code. All
gas taps and/or service connections shall conform to the regulations and
standards of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration. The
applicant shall pay the actual cost of tapping into the systems prior to
connection as follows.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 53.041 WATER TAP FEES.
   (A)   The tap-on fee for water service to each property in which an
application has been made and the water user’s agreement has been filed, shall
be $500 for each three-quarter inch meter inside the incorporated area of the
city. The tap-on fee for water service to each property in which an application
has been made and the water user’s agreement has been filed, shall be $650 for
each three-quarter meter outside the incorporated area of the city.
   (B)   The tap-on fee for water service to each property in which an
application has been made and the water user’s agreement has been filed at City
Hall shall be $800 for each one-inch meter inside the incorporated area of the
city. The tap-on fee for water service to each property in which an application
has been made and the water user’s agreement has been filed shall be $950 for
each one-inch meter outside the incorporated area of the city.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 53.042 SEWER TAP FEES.
   The tap-on fee for water service to each property in which an application
has been made and the sewer user’s agreement has been filed at City Hall, shall
be $350 for sewer taps inside the incorporated area of the city. The tap-on fee
for sewer service for properties outside the incorporated area of the city to
which an application has been made and filed at City Hall, shall be $2,500.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 53.043 GAS TAP FEES.
   The tap-on fee for gas service to each property in which an application has
been made and the gas user’s agreement has been filed at City Hall, shall be
$500 for standard taps inside the incorporated area of the city. The tap-on fee
for gas service to properties outside the incorporated area of the city to
which an application has been made and filed at City Hall shall be $650 for
standard gas taps. Gas taps requiring a C630 gas meter tap to each property,
shall be $700 inside the incorporated area of the city and C630 gas meter tap
outside the incorporated area of the city shall be at a cost of $800.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
SEWER PROVISIONS
§ 53.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally permitted.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more, than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Committee of the
city, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1975 Code, § 38.23)
§ 53.056 DEPOSIT OF WASTES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1975 Code, § 38.25) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 SEWAGE IN NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 38.26) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.058 PRIVATE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility,
intended or used for the disposal of sewage, except for those in existence that
are not controlled by §
53.059.
(1975 Code, § 38.27) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.059 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city, and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city,
is hereby required, at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after the
date of official notice to do so; provided that the public sewer is within 100
feet of the nearest property line.
(1975 Code, § 38.28) (Ord. 349, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.999
INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 53.070 SEWERS; INDIVIDUAL SYSTEMS.
   The City Council may require the property owner to obtain a signed, written
opinion from a qualified soils scientist or related professional determining if
larger lots are necessary for the proper functioning of the individual sewage
disposal system to prevent the possibility of health hazards.
(1975 Code, § 38.29)
§ 53.071 REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEMS.
   All individual sewage disposal systems shall meet the following minimum
standards and conditions.
(1975 Code, § 38.30)
§ 53.072 LOCATION.
 
Location of Components of Sewage Disposal System
             From Well or From Water
             Suction Line Supply Line  From Stream From Dwelling From Property
             from Pump to (Pressure)                             Line
             Well
Building     50 feet      10 feet      50 feet     -             -
sewer
Disposal     75 feet      25 feet      50 feet     20 feet       10 feet
field
Distribution 75 feet      25 feet      50 feet     20 feet       10 feet
box
Sand filter  75 feet      25 feet      50 feet     20 feet       10 feet
Septic tank  50 feet      10 feet      50 feet     5 feet        10 feet
 
(1975 Code, § 38.32)
§ 53.073 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The construction materials for sewer lines shall be cast-iron sewer
pipe, copper pipe (DOT), rigid pipe, vitrified clay (bell and spigot) sewer
pipe, concrete sewer pipe (bell and spigot) bituminized fiber sewer pipe or PVC
pipe.
      (1)   The joints should be water-tight and root-proof and should be
capable of maintaining ten pounds per square inch pressure without leakage.
      (2)   Bell and spigot pipe more than 50 feet from a well may be provided
with asphaltic or cement joints.
   (B)   Other types of pipe should be provided with the manufacturer’s
recommended joints.
      (1)   General. The minimum size for all sewer lines is four inches
nominal size. The lines carrying raw sewage (between the building and septic
tank) must be constructed with a minimum slope of one-eighth inch per foot (12
inches per 100 feet) of sewer line. Lines carrying partially treated sewage
(septic tank to seepage field or filter) may have a minimum slope of six inches
per 100 feet. Drain lines carrying the effluent from a filter to its point of
discharge may have a minimum slope of three inches per 100 feet.
      (2)   Septic tank capacities. The septic tank shall have a minimum liquid
capacity of 750 gallons and shall be sized in accordance with the provisions of
the table in §
53.074.
      (3)   Construction of septic tanks.
         (a)   Septic tanks shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant
materials and be of permanent construction.
         (b)   The cover of the tank shall be designated for a dead load of not
less than 150 pounds per square foot and, if of concrete, shall be reinforced
and not less than three inches thick.
      (4)   Multiple compartments. In tanks of more than one compartment, the
inlet compartment shall have a capacity of not less than two-thirds of the
required minimum capacity as specified in the table in §
53.074.
      (5)   Length. Septic tanks shall be approximately twice as long as they
are wide, except that cylindrical tanks are approved.
      (6)   Depth. The minimum allowable liquid depth shall be four feet. The
total depth shall be such that 12 inches of air space shall be provided between
the bottom of the cover and the invert of the outlet pipe.
      (7)   Manholes. The inlet compartment shall be provided with at least one
manhole. Other compartments may be provided with a manhole. Manholes shall be
at least 20 inches square or 24 inches in diameter and provided with covers
which can be sealed water-tight. Where removable slab covers are provided,
manholes are not required.
      (8)   Baffles.
         (a)   If inlet and outlet baffles are used, they shall extend the full
width of the tank and be located six inches from the end walls.
         (b)   Such baffles shall extend at least ten inches above the flow
line, but not closer than one inch to the underside of the cover.
         (c)   Inlet baffles shall extend six inches to 12 inches below the
flow line and outlet baffles shall extend 12 inches to 18 inches below the flow
line.
         (d)   Baffles should be used for tanks of 1,500 gallons or larger in
lieu of turn-down pipe.
      (9)   Pipe inlet and outlet. In lieu of baffles, submerged pipe inlets
and outlets may be installed consisting of concrete, vitrified clay or cast-
iron sanitary tee’s with a short section of pipe to the required depth as
indicated in division (B)(10) below.
      (10)   Invert. The invert of the pipe shall be located at least three
inches above the invert of the outlet.
      (11)   Subsurface seepage field.
(1975 Code, § 38.33)
§ 53.074 MINIMUM CAPACITIES FOR SEPTIC TANKS SERVING AN INDIVIDUAL DWELLING.
                    Liquid cap. of                               Liquid cap. of
          Maximum   tank (no auto  Liquid cap. of Liquid cap. of tank (with
Number of number of wash. mach.,   tank (with     tank (with     both auto
bedrooms  persons   no garb.       auto wash.     garbage        wash. mach.
          served    grinder)       mach. only)    grinder only)  and garb.
                                                                 grinder)
                    Liquid cap. of                               Liquid cap. of
          Maximum   tank (no auto  Liquid cap. of Liquid cap. of tank (with
Number of number of wash. mach.,   tank (with     tank (with     both auto
bedrooms  persons   no garb.       auto wash.     garbage        wash. mach.
          served    grinder)       mach. only)    grinder only)  and garb.
                                                                 grinder)
2         4         750            938            1125           1313
3         6         900            1125           1350           1575
4         8         1200           1500           1800           2100
5         10        1500           1875           2250           2625
6         12        1800           2250           2700           3150
7         15        2250           2813           3375           3938
Note: The minimum allowable liquid depth shall be four feet. Tanks in excess of
1,200 gallons capacity shall be designed on the basis of one and one-half times
the daily flow of 100 gallons, per person per day up to 1,500 gallons per day.
Flows greater than 1,500 gallons per day, the minimum effective tank capacity
should equal 1,500 gallons, plus 75% of daily sewage flow. This formula V=1500
+ .75Q may be used. V=volume and Q=daily sewage flow in gallons.
 
(1975 Code, § 38.35)
§ 53.075 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DISPOSAL FIELD.
   (A)   Disposal field construction:
Disposal Field Construction Minimum Standard
Disposal Field Construction                                 Minimum Standard
Lines per field, minimum number                             2
Individual lines, maximum length                            100 feet
Trench bottom, minimum width                                18 inches
Trench bottom, maximum width                                36 inches
Field tile, minimum diameter                                4 inches
Field tile, lines, maximum slope                            6 inches/100 feet
Field trenches, minimum separation (see schedule; division
(D) below)
Effective absorption area, minimum per dwelling unit        200 square feet
(division (B) below)
 
   (B)   Absorption areas for individual residences or apartment unit:
 
Time Required for Water to Fall 1 Inch  Effective Absorption Area Required in
(Minutes)                               Bottom of Disposal Trenches (Square
                                        Feet per Bedroom)
2 or less                               70
Over 60                                 Install sand filter
 
   (C)   When an automatic washing machine is installed or contemplated, the
effective total absorption area shall be increased 25%. Where garbage disposal
units are installed, the effective absorption area shall be increased 50%.
   (D)   Size and spacing for disposal field:
 
Width of Trench At Depth of Trench  Spacing Tile Lines  Effective Absorption
Bottom (inches)    (inches)         (feet)              Area per lineal foot
                                                        (sq. ft.)
18                 18 to 30         6.0                 1.5
24                 18 to 30         6.0                 2.0
30                 18 to 36         7.6                 2.5
36                 24 to 35         9.0                 3.0
 
   (E)   Absorption lines should be constructed of farm tile laid with open
joints. The tile sections should be spaced not more than one-fourth inch apart,
and the upper-half of the joint should be protected by asphalt treated paper
while the tile is being covered. Perforated clay tile or perforated
bituminized-fiber pipe or asbestos cement pipe may be used provided that
sufficient, openings are available for distribution of the effluent into the
trench area.
   (F)   The bedding material shall extend the full width of the trench and
shall be not less than six inches deep beneath the bottom of the tile. After
the tile has been laid, the bedding material shall be brought up to a level two
inches above the top of the tile. The bedding material may be washed gravel,
crushed stone, slag or clean bank-run gravel, ranging in size from one-half
inch to two and one-half inches. The bedding material should be covered by a
two-inch layer of pea gravel or straw to support the backfill as the laying of
the tile drain proceeds.
(1975 Code, § 38.36)
§ 53.076 DISTRIBUTION BOX.
   A distribution box shall be provided to receive the effluent from the septic
tank to assure equal distribution to each individual line of the disposal field
as shown in § 53.075(D), in accordance with the following items.
   (A)   Connection. The distribution box should be connected to a septic tank
by a tight sewer (cast iron with mechanical joints) lines and be located at the
upper end of the disposal field.
   (B)   Invert level. The invert of the inlet pipe should be located six
inches above the bottom of the box. The invert of the lets to each distribution
line should be located four inches above the bottom of the box and set at the
same elevation.
   (C)   Inspection. The sides of the box should extend to within a short
distance of the ground surface to permit inspection. The box should be kept to
the minimum size necessary to accommodate the inlet and outlets.
(1975 Code, § 38.37)
§ 53.077 BURIED SAND FILTERS.
   (A)   Size. The size shall be such to provide 100 square feet of filter area
per person served or 200 square feet of filter area per bedroom. In systems
serving an automatic washing machine the size shall be increased to provide 250
square feet of filter area per bedroom. It is recommended that the size be
based on a filter 20 feet square for a two-bedroom home, with an additional ten
feet of length added for each additional bedroom.
   (B)   Minimum filtering depth. The minimum filtering (sand) depth shall be
24 inches.
   (C)   Cover material and depth. The filter may be covered with a maximum
depth of 12 inches of porous soil or medium to coarse gravel.
   (D)   Filter media. The filter media (sand) shall have an effective size of
0.6 to 0.1 millimeters and a uniformity coefficient of less than 3.5. It shall
be washed and free from clay or silt.
   (E)   Distribution and collection lines. The distribution and collection
lines should conform to the requirements for absorption lines as given in
division (C) above in the seepage field section. The distribution lines should
have a slope of two inches per 100 feet and should be spaced two feet apart,
center-to-center. The collection lines should have a slope of six inches per
100 feet and one collection line should be provided for each ten feet of width
or fraction thereof. The lower end of the distribution lines should be vented
as required in division (G) below and the upper end of the collection lines
should be completely plugged.
   (F)   Bedding material. The bedding material for the distribution and
collection lines shall be placed as shown in Figure 8, and shall consist of
washed gravel, washed crushed stone or slag. The coarse gravel may range in
size from one-fourth inch to one and one-half inches in diameter. The
collection lines should be laid directly on the cut, without placing gravel
beneath the line.
   (G)   Venting. Vents should be placed on the downstream end of each of the
distribution lines as shown in Figure 4. The vents should extend to, slightly
above the ground surface and the outlet should be screened with one-fourth inch
mesh screen.
   (H)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided to prevent ponding of
surface water above the filter, and adequate drainage must also be available to
ensure free drainage of the effluent from the filter.
   (I)   The effluent from a filter shall be chlorinated. Chlorine basins shall
be sufficient to retain all liquid for 15 minutes and capacity of chlorinator
shall be capable of feeding six parts per million (four ounces of 70%
hypochlorite per 1,000 gallons of flow).
(1975 Code, § 38.38)
§ 53.078 PERCOLATION.
   A percolation test may be required to be performed in the presence of the
Building Committee or its designated nominee. This test shall be used as the
criterion to determine subsurface seepage. The following procedure shall be
used to perform the percolation test.
   (A)   Size of test holes. Not less than two holes should be tested, each to
be dug to the depth of the proposed disposal trenches. One test hole per
bedroom to be served is generally adequate. The holes may be dug with an eight-
inch posthole digger if desired.
   (B)   Test procedure. Place two inches of coarse gravel in the bottom of the
hole to prevent scouring. Fill hole with clean water to a depth of 12 inches to
18 inches; maintain this level of water in the hole for a period of six to 24
hours; during dry periods, the latter will be necessary. To accomplish this, an
automatic syphon from a water container should be provided.
   (C)   Absorption area needed. Calculate the average time in minutes for the
water to fall one inch. Average the results from the holes tested. If the
average time is greater than 60 minutes, a seepage field cannot be expected to
function satisfactorily, and a sand filter should be considered. The effective
absorption area required should then be determined from § 53.075(B).
   (D)   Special soils. Tests should not be made on filled or frozen ground.
(1975 Code, § 38.39)
§ 53.079 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   Septic tank and sand filter fields:
   (A)   Trees and shrubs are not to be planted in any disposal field area. The
roots will grow into the bedding material and cause stoppages;
   (B)   To prevent breakage of lines, do not drive over the disposal field
area with heavy equipment;
   (C)   Concrete shall not be placed, laid or poured over absorption lines,
nor shall a hard surface or fill be placed over the disposal field area;
   (D)   Surface drainage shall be maintained so that all surface water will
drain away from the disposal field area; and
   (E)   Effluent from a filter shall not create an odor or a nuisance or be
allowed to become ponded.
(1975 Code, § 38.40)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.090 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(1975 Code, § 38.41) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.091 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1975 Code, § 38.42)
§ 53.092 SEPARATE SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1975 Code, § 38.43)
§ 53.093 OLD SEWER.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 38.44)
§ 53.094 CONSTRUCTION METHODS.
   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building sewer,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual or Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(1975 Code, § 38.45)
§ 53.095 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(1975 Code, § 38.46)
§ 53.096 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff, or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1975 Code, § 38.47) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.097 BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE APPLICABLE.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the National Building Code and Plumbing Code of the state,
or other applicable rules and regulations adopted by the city, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the
W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight
and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials
must be approved by the Superintendent before installation.
(1975 Code, § 38.48)
§ 53.098 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Superintendent
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Superintendent
or his or her representative after the roof structure is constructed.
(1975 Code, § 38.49)
§ 53.099 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1975 Code, § 38.50)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 53.110 DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1975 Code, § 38.52) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.111 STORM WATER.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent,
to a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
(1975 Code, § 38.53)
§ 53.112 REGULATIONS OF WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides in excess of two mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper, dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1975 Code, § 38.54) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.113 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (C)   The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Superintendent for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations, exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent, as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration, (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual, volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
(1975 Code, § 38.55) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.114 HARMFUL WASTES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in § 53.113, and which in the judgment of the
Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment or receiving waters or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pre-treatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of § 53.119.
   (B)   If the Superintendent permits the pre-treatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes and ordinances and laws.
(1975 Code, § 38.56)
§ 53.115 INTERCEPTORS; GREASE.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters, or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located
as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspections.
(1975 Code, § 38.57)
   (B)   Businesses/restaurants shall follow the most current EPA guidelines
pertaining to grease traps and/or grease in the public sewers.
§ 53.116 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner, at his or her expense.
(1975 Code, § 38.58)
§ 53.117 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; CONTROL MANHOLE.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes, shall install a suitable control
manhole, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement, of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1975 Code, § 38.60)
§ 53.118 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream,
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite sample or samples should be
taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained
from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pH’s are determined from
periodic grab samples.
(1975 Code, § 38.61)
§ 53.119 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern.
(1975 Code, § 38.62)
INSPECTIONS
§ 53.130 DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(1975 Code, § 38.63) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.131 INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, at all
reasonable hours. The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
(1975 Code, § 38.65)
§ 53.132 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
53.131, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company
and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city
employees; and the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
53.117.
(1975 Code, § 38.66)
§ 53.133 PRIVATE PROPERTY; ENTERING.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement.
   (B)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done
in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to
the private property involved.
(1975 Code, § 38.67)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 53.145 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   Water service shall be furnished only to city water system, users upon
filing of an application and water users agreement, with the City Clerk of the
city upon a form to be supplied by the city.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.146 CITY’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Ownership, installation and maintenance. The city shall install, own
and maintain the complete water system, water mains and service lines to the
property lines or a mutually agreed upon point subject to the City Council’s
determination that a particular service is economically feasible to install.
The city shall furnish, install and maintain a meter and appurtenances
including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed on the user’s
property line or such other point determined by a duly authorized
representative of the city. The meter may be located near the shutoff valve or
within the user’s premises as determined by the city representative. The meter
and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it is readily accessible.
   (B)   Refusal of service. The city may at any time refuse additional
services to any applicant if in the judgment of the City Council the capacity
of the system will not permit such use.
   (C)   Liability. All water service supplied by the city shall be upon the
express condition that the city shall not be liable, nor shall any claim be
made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off of water
for repair, relocation or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of
any part of the system or for concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted use of water.
   (D)   Use of water on users premises. The city shall reserve the right to
use the water from the users facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge
shall be made by the user for the use of his or her facilities and no charge
shall be made by the city for the water used by the city.
   (E)   Inspection. The city shall have access to all portions of the premises
of the consumer at any reasonable time for inspection of the use of water, and
the consumer’s pipe, fixtures, plumbing and any other apparatus, in any manner
connected to the water system of the city. The city shall have the right and
option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any repair, change,
removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other apparatus that
would in any manner affect the water supply or system of the city, or the
supply or fixtures of other consumers.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.147 USER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Installing and maintaining service lines. The user shall be
responsible for installation and maintenance of service lines between the curb
stop and the residence or business. Such service lines must be at least three-
quarter inch in diameter, and must be installed at a minimum depth of two and
one-half feet. Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of 169
psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the following types of
materials: copper, (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or
polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by a duly authorized city representative. The user will not connect
any service line or any plumbing connected with the service line to any other
water source. The service line must meet any requirements of the State
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Provisions for location of meter. The user shall permit the meter to
be located upon his or her property.
   (C)   Meters damaged by hot water. Whenever a meter is found to have been
damaged by hot water being forced back into it from the consumer’s hot water or
heating apparatus, or for any other cause within the control of the consumer,
the consumer shall pay the city for the actual cost of the removal, repairing
and replacing of the damaged meter and all previous water bills shall be
corrected on an estimated basis to cover such period as it appears that the
meter was out of order for such damage.
   (D)   Easements. The user shall give such easements and rights-of-way as
necessary to the city and allow access for the purposes of construction,
repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the City Council.
   (E)   Damage to city property. No user or person shall tamper, adjust,
damage or in any manner interfere with the components or operation of the water
system owned by the city. The shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly
authorized representative of the city. Penalty for tampering, damaging,
adjusting or in any manner interfering with the components or operation of the
system shall be up to $500, payable to the city. If the penalty is not paid
within 30 days after the amount is determined, the city shall shut off the
water service. The amount of penalty shall be determined by the City Council.
In addition to the penalty, the user responsible shall reimburse the city for
the actual cost of repairing any damage arising from the users or persons act.
Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting, damaging or
interference with operation of the system, owned by the city, to the Mayor of
the city, the City Clerk or the Superintendent of Water and Sewer. Any
malicious act or damage to the system that is not appropriately punishable by
the foregoing shall be prosecuted through a court of law.
   (F)   Specified uses of water. Water purchased from the city may be used for
ordinary domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the user
provided:
      (1)   No user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from
the city; and
      (2)   Each dwelling, apartment, business and livestock tap is a separate
unit. The user must make application for service for each unit, and each unit
shall have a separate cut-off valve, meter and service line, and user shall pay
the minimum monthly rate and other rates and fees herein established for each
unit.
   (G)   Cross-connections.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (G), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
         CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or
appurtenance through which a backflow could occur.
         SAFE AIR GAP. The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above
the maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container
to which public water is furnished which shall be at least two times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe, but shall not be less than one inch and need
not be more than 12 inches.
         SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system maintained in addition
to a public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from
ground or surface sources not meeting the requirements of 415 ILCS 5, or water
from a public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed or
exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage
facility.
         SUBMERGED INLET. A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
         WATER UTILITY. The city.
      (2)   Cross-connections prohibited. Cross-connection of public water
supply systems and any other water supply system or source including, but not
limited to, the following are prohibited:
         (a)   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water
supply;
         (b)   By submerged inlet;
         (c)   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply
system;
         (d)   Between a public water supply and piping which contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant; and
         (e)   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a
tank or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
      (3)   Cross-connection control program. The water utility shall develop a
comprehensive control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross-
connections, and removal of all existing cross-connections and prevention of
all future cross-connections.
      (4)   Corrections and protection devices. Any user of the water utility
shall obtain written approval from the water utility of any proposed corrective
action or protective device before using or installing it. The total time
allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall be contingent upon
the degree of hazard involved and include the time required to obtain and
install equipment. If the cross-connection has not been removed within the time
as hereinafter specified, the water utility shall physically separate the water
system from the on-site piping system in such manner that the two systems
cannot be connected by any unauthorized person.
      (5)   Piping identification. When a secondary water source is used in
addition to the water supply, exposed water utility water and secondary water
piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained
that each pipe may be traced readily in its entirety, it will be necessary to
protect the water utility water supply at the service connection in a manner
acceptable to the water utility.
      (6)   Private water storage tanks. A private water storage tank supplied
from the water utility water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water
supply unless it is designed and approved for portable water usage.
      (7)   Elimination of existing cross-connections. Within one year from the
effective date of this section all existing cross-connections to the water
utility water supply systems shall be eliminated. The expenses of such
elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on which such cross-
connection exists.
      (8)   Inspection. The water utility or any representative thereof shall
have the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of any
existing cross-connection and to order the elimination of such cross-
connection.
      (9)   Discontinuance of water service. The water utility shall
discontinue water service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any
property where a cross-connection in violation of this code exists or where the
user refuses to allow an inspection to determine the presence of a cross-
connection. The water utility may take such other precautionary measures as
necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the water utility
water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such cross-connection has been eliminated.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.148 EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   (A)   Determination of who pays expense of extension. The City Council shall
first determine if an extension of water main is economically feasible based on
the estimated cost of the extension and the number of existing potential users
that will use water along the extension. If the extension is economically
feasible then the city may install and pay the cost of the extension at the
discretion of the City Council. If the city elects not to pay the cost of
extending the water main then the person or persons desiring water service
shall install the extension at their own personal expense upon written consent
by the City Council. The city shall not pay for any extensions to an
undeveloped area such as a subdivision being developed unless there are
sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the extension economically
feasible.
   (B)   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than the city.
      (1)   The city must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      (2)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   Ownership, rights-of-way and title must be conveyed to the city for
all extensions installed by anyone other than the city. The city will maintain
the mains thereafter.
      (4)   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the City
Council, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.149 CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Notice to city. Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give adequate notice to the city prior to the desired date of termination of
service. The customer’s utility meter(s) shall be read by the city upon
notification and the user will be responsible for the usage as applicable.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment of consumed services. The responsibility
for payment for utility service consumed prior to the date of termination shall
be with the property owners as well as the user.
   (C)   Charges for change. There shall be no charge for transferring the
utility service to a subsequent user.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984; Ord. 11-03, passed 3-2-2011)
§ 53.150 ELECTRICAL GROUND WIRES.
   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire to any
plumbing or water piping which is or may be connected to any water service
pipe, water meter or water main belonging to the city. The city will hold the
owner of the premises responsible and liable for any damage to the property or
injury to the employees of the city caused by such ground wire. All owners and
consumers shall remove any existing ground wires immediately upon written
notice from the city. If not so disconnected after five days’ written notice,
the city, through its officials, may enter the property and remove such ground
wires and the consumer shall pay all costs.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.151 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be held responsible for, or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer or public body, for any claim or damage, either
direct or resultant because any shortage of water supply, any shut-off of water
supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer’s or
city’s mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply, or
any fire or water damage.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.152 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   (A)   If any consumer fails to comply fully with any of the rules and
regulations in force, the city shall notify the consumer of such failure. If
the consumer does not remedy same, as the rules provide, and within a
reasonable time, the city shall have the right to discontinue service. Except
in cases of non-payment, emergency, necessity or as otherwise provided, the
city will not discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days
after notice has been given and violation has not been remedied.
   (B)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his of her bill shall have a
right to present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to
the city official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.153 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained and used only by the city. Use
of water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the city, after approved application to the city.
   (B)   The city shall not be held liable and will not assume any
responsibility for the condition of any fire hydrant inside or outside the city
limits, or the presence or amount of water obtainable therefrom, or any damages
either direct or resultant because of the condition, pressure or amount of
water available at any fire hydrant.
   (C)   All public fire hydrants outside of any city limits owned by the city
will be maintained in as good order as reasonably possible but the city will
not undertake or assume any responsibility or liability for their condition,
use or abuse. Such public fire hydrants shall be used only for the purpose of
extinguishing fires, except when the city may issue a special permit for their
use to contractors who shall then be responsible for the hydrants and the use
of the water from them.
   (D)   A monthly charge of $1 shall be made for each fire hydrant owned by
the city.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984)
§ 53.154 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following shall be the rates for water supplied by the city. See
Attachment A, which is attached to the ordinance codified herein, and
incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The adequacy of the water charge shall be reviewed, not less often
than annually by certified public accountants for the city in their annual
audit report. Any percentage change (increase or decrease) in the local capital
cost or in a change in operation and maintenance cost, including replacement
costs based on the latest fiscal year audit, which are passed directly to all
utility bills, shall be determined by the Council.
   (C)   The rate for bulk water purchased from the city water plant shall be
$6 per 1,000 gallons.
(Ord. 84-6, passed 7-18-1984; Ord. 09-06, passed 12-2-2009; Ord. 11-03, passed
3-2-2011)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Notification of violation. Any person found to be violating any
provisions of this chapter, except §§
53.130 through
53.133, shall be served by the city with written notice, stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(1975 Code, § 38.68)
   (C)   Fine. Any person who shall continue, any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in division (B) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation. Each day on which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
(1975 Code, § 38.69)
   (D)   Expenses. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
city by reason of such violation.
(1975 Code, § 38.70)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RULES FOR DRIVING
      
72.   PEDESTRIANS
      
73.   PARKING RULES
      
74.   CONDITION/EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
      
75.   DRIVERS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Scene of fire
   
70.04   Signs and signals
   
70.05   Unauthorized signs
   
70.06   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.07   Advertising signs
   
70.08   Excessive noise from engine braking
   
70.09   Towing and impounding vehicles involved in a crime
Through, One-Way, Yield Right-of-Way Streets, Stop Intersections
   
70.20   Through streets
   
70.21   One-way streets or alleys
   
70.22   Stop streets
   
70.23   Yield right-of-way streets
   
70.24   Posting signs; engineer and police report
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
   Offenses relating to towing and impounding vehicles, see
Chapter 130
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   The State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq. entitled “Title and
Definitions”, as passed, approved and amended by the State General Assembly, is
hereby adopted by the city and is controlling within the city limits.
(1975 Code, § 24.01)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department and special police assigned to traffic duty
are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer. Except in case
of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to
direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1975 Code, § 24.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(1975 Code, § 24.03)
§ 70.04 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(1975 Code, § 24.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or railroad
sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, nor shall
any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street, any other
sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of traffic or
effectiveness of traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal, and no
person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority permit upon any
highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any commercial advertising.
   (B)   Any such unauthorized device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
may be removed by any police officer.
(1975 Code, § 24.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1975 Code, § 24.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the city any sign,
signal, marking or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by
the City Council or the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway, any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
(1975 Code, § 24.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 EXCESSIVE NOISE FROM ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to operate or cause
to be used any engine braking system that emits excessive noise, which shall
include the use of engine compression brakes, also known as Jake brakes, on any
street, highway or road within the city limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, COMPRESSION/RELEASE BRAKE is defined
as any engine brake, compression brake or mechanical exhaust device designed to
aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle by converting engine power to
compressed air which results in excessive, loud or unusual noise from such
vehicle, or otherwise known as “Jake braking”.
   (C)   The penalty division for this section in §
70.99(B) shall not apply if driver used an engine braking system that emits
excessive noise in an emergency to avoid a collision with a person or another
vehicle.
   (D)   The Street Superintendent shall order and post signs at locations
where streets enter the city which state: “Excessive Engine Braking Noise
Prohibited”. Such signs shall be erected and placed in accordance with rules
adopted by the State Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 09-05, passed 8-5-2009) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 TOWING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES INVOLVED IN A CRIME.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the following meanings ascribed to them respectively:
      ADMINISTRATED HEARING OFFICER. Officer who is an attorney licensed to
practice law in this State for a minimum of three years.
      BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which City Hall is open to the public.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. Any substance as defined and included in the
schedules of Article II of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, 720 ILCS
570/201 et seq., and cannabis as defined in the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS
550/1 et seq.
      DRIVING A VEHICLE BY PERSON SUBJECT TO WARRANT. Operation or use of a
motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant had been issued in the State
of Illinois for failing to answer charges that the driver violated section 6-
101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      DRIVING ON A SUSPENDED OR REVOKED LICENSE. Any offenses as defined in
section 5/6-303 ofthe Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/6-303.
      DRIVING ON AN EXPIRED LICENSE. Operation or use of a motor vehicle with
an expired license, in violation of section 5/6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle
code, 625 ILCS 5/6-101, if the period of expiration is greater than one year.
      DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL, DRUGS AND/OR INTOXICATING
COMPOUNDS. Ay offenses as defined in section 5/11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
      DRIVING WITHOUT A LICENSE OR PERMIT. Operation or use of a motor vehicle
without ever having been issued a license or permit, in  violation of section
6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever
having been issued a license or permit due to a person's age.
      FLEEING OR ATTEMPTING TO ELUDE A POLICE OFFICER. Any offenses as defined
in section 5/11-204 or 11-204.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-204
and 204.1.
      LEAVING THE SCENE OF A PERSONAL INURY OR PROPERTY DAMAGE ACCIDENT. Any
offenses as defined in sections 5/11-40, 5/11-402, and 5/11-403 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-401, 402, and 403.
      LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATION FEE. $200.
      LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATION FEE. $100.
      MISDEMEANOR. Any misdemeanor offense as defined by Illinois Statute.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but
limited to automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
      OWNER OF RECORD/INTERESTED PERSON. The recorded title holder(s) or
lienholder(s) of the motor vehicle as registered with the Secretary of State,
State of Illinois, or is not registered in Illinois, the particular state where
the motor vehicle is registered.
      PRELIMINARY HEARING OFFICER. The chief of police, assistant chief of
police or a police sergeant.
      THEFT OFFENSE. Any offense in violation of Article 16 of the Criminal
Code, Chapter 720 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any offense as defined by the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      WEAPONS OFFENSE. Any ofthe following offenses contained within Article 24
of Chapter 720 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes: 720 ILCS 5/24-1,  24-1.1, 24-
1.2, 24-1.25, 24-1.5, 24-1.6, 24-1.6, 24-2.1, 24-2.2, 24-3, 24-3.1, 24-3.2, 24-
3.3, 24-3.4, 24-3.5, 24-3.6, and 24-3A.
   (B)   Motor vehicle impoundment. The City of Vienna (the "city") shall
follow the procedures set forth herein when impounding vehicles and shall
impose reasonable administrative fees, payable to and collected by the city,
related to its administrative and processing costs associated with the
investigation, arrest, and detention of an offender, or the removal,
impoundment, storage, and release of the vehicle. The administrative fees
imposed herein by the city shall be uniform for all similarly situated vehicles
and are in addition to any other penalties or fees that may be assessed by a
court of law for the underlying violations, or by a person, firm, or entity
that tows and stores the impounded vehicle.
   (C)   Violations authorizing impoundment.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission
of the owner of record/interested person, that is used in connection with the
following violations shall be subject to seizure and impoundment by the city,
and the owner of record of said motor vehicle or its agent, shall be liable to
the city for a Level 1 administrative fee, in addition to any fees for the
towing and storage of the vehicle and any other criminal penalties assessed by
a court of law.
         (a)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the Criminal Code of Illinois; or
         (b)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs,
an intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation
of section 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code; or
         (c)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of a felony offense of the
cannabis control act; or
         (d)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act; or
         (e)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony offense in violation of section 24-1 (unlawful
use of a weapons), 24-1.5 (reckless discharge of a firearm), or 24-3.1
(unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunition) of the Criminal Code
of Illinois; or
         (f)   Driving while driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate
a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code;
         (g)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, or
attempting to solicit a controlled substance, as defined by the Illinois
Controlled Substances act; or
         (h)   Operation of use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a felony offense in violation of article 16 (theft
offenses) of the Criminal Code of Illinois; or
         (i)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, any other felony offenses in violation of the criminal
or vehicle codes of Illinois.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied permission
of the owner of record/interested person that is used in connection with the
following violations, including arrest warrants, shall be subject to
impoundment by the city, and the owner of record or its agent, shall be liable
to the city for a Level 2 administrative fee, in addition to any fees for the
towing and storage of the vehicle and any other criminal penalties assessed by
a court of law for the underlying offense as hereinafter provided:
         (a)    Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a misdemeanor violation of the Cannabis Control Act;
         (b)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit, a misdemeanor offense in violation of Article 16 (theft
offenses of the Criminal Code of Illinois;
         (c)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in
the attempt to commit any other misdemeanor offense in violation of the
criminal or vehicle codes of Illinois; or
         (d)   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's
license, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code if the
period of expiration is greater than one year.
   (D)   Towing and impoundment.
      (1)   Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to towing and impoundment pursuant to this ordinance, the
police officer shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility
controlled or approved by the city. This section shall not apply if the motor
vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and the theft was reported
to the appropriate police authorities.
      (2)   The city shall notify, or make a reasonable attempt to notify, the
owner of record/interested person or any person who is found to be in control
of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation of the fact of the
towing and impoundment of the motor vehicle and the owner's right to an
administrative hearing under this section.
      (3)   The city shall also provide a notice that the motor vehicle will
remain impounded pending the completion of an administrative hearing, unless
the owner of record/interested person of the vehicle posts with the city a bond
equal to the administrative fee as provided by this section and pays for all
towing and storage charges. Whenever the owner of record/interested person of a
vehicle impounded pursuant to this section requests, in writing, hand delivered
to the police department, a preliminary hearing on the probable cause within 12
hours after the impoundment, a preliminary hearing officer shall conduct such
preliminary hearing within 72 hours after the impoundment, excluding Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays. The owner of record/interested person at the time of the
alleged offense shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
preliminary hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the
hearing, and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. If, after the hearing, the
preliminary hearing officer determines that there is probable cause to believe
that the vehicle was used in the commission of any crime described as a Level 1
or Level 2 administrative fee offense, the preliminary hearing officer shall
order the continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided in this section
unless the owner of record/interested person posts with the city a cash bond in
the amount of the Level 1 or Level 2 administrative fee offense, plus fees for
towing and storing the vehicle. If the preliminary hearing officer determines
that there is no such probable cause, the vehicle will be returned without
penalty or other fees.
   (E)   Administrative hearing.
      (1)   Within ten days after a motor vehicle is impounded pursuant to this
section, the city shall notify by personal service or by first class mail, to
the owner of record/interested person, along with a Summons commending that
person to appear at a hearing before the administrative hearing officer, along
with the date, time and location of the hearing, to challenge whether a
violation of this section had occurred. The owner of record/interested person
shall also be notified of the continued impoundment of the vehicle as provided
in this section unless the owner of record/interested person posts with the
city a cash bond in the amount of the Level 1 or Level 2 administrative fee
offense, plus fees for towing and storing the vehicle. The hearing date must be
scheduled and convened not less than 30 nor more than 40 days after the
violation is reported. The owner of record/interested person and any other
interested person(s) shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the
hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible.
      (2)   If, after the hearing, the administrative hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used
in violation of this section, then the administrative hearing officer shall
enter an order finding the owner of record of the motor vehicle liable to the
city for the applicable administrative fee.
      (3)   If, after the hearing, the administrative hearing officer does not
determine by a preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in
such a violation, the administrative hearing officer shall enter an order
finding for the owner and for the return of the motor vehicle and the
administrative fees if already paid.
      (4)   If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the owner of
record/interested person shall be deemed to have waived his or her right to a
hearing. If the owner of record/interested person pays such administrative fee
and the motor vehicle is returned to the owner of record/interested person, no
default order need be entered if the owner of record/interested person was
informed of his or her right to a hearing, in which case an order of liability
shall be deemed to have been made when the city receives the written waiver.
      (5)   If a bond in the amount equal to the applicable administrative fee
is posted with the police department, the motor vehicle shall be released to
the owner of record/interested person. The owner of record/interested person
shall still be liable to the towing agent for any applicable towing fees.
      (6)   If an administrative fee is imposed for a violation of this
section, the bond will be forfeited to the city; however if a violation of this
section is not proven by preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money posted pursuant to this
section shall be held by the city until the administrative hearing officer
issues a decision, or, if there is a judicial review, until the court of
jurisdiction issues its orders.
      (7)   All decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Illinois Administrative Review
Law.
   (F)   Disposition of impounded motor vehicle.
      (1)   An administrative fee imposed pursuant to this section shall
constitute a debt due and owing the city.
      (2)   A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall remain
impounded until:
         (a)   The administrative fee is paid the city and all applicable
towing fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case the owner of record/
interested person shall be give possession of the motor vehicle;
         (b)   A bond in an amount equal to the applicable administrative fee
is posted with the police department and all applicable towing fees are paid to
the towing agent, at which time the motor vehicle will be released to the owner
of record/interested person; or
         (c)   Any motor vehicle that is not reclaimed or retrieved from the
facility controlled or approved by the city within 35 days after the
administrative hearing officer issues a written decision shall be deemed
abandoned and may be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of Article
II of Chapter 4 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
         (d)   The administrative fee imposed by the city of impounded vehicle
shall be in addition to any fees charged for the towing and storage, or both,
of an impounded vehicle. The towing or storage, or both, of an impounded
vehicle. The towing or storage fees, or both, shall be collected by and paid to
the person, firm, or entity that tows and stores the impounded vehicle. The
towing and/or storage company shall be entitled to receive a fee from the owner
of record/interested person entitled to possession of any such vehicle prior to
the release of the vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost of removing said
vehicle and, in addition, any fees for the cost of storage of the vehicle for
each day or fraction thereof that said vehicle remained at their storage
facility in compliance with their practices.
         (e)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in
possession of the vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the police
department confirming compliance with the foregoing requirements and to retain
photocopies of the documentation in their files for a period of not less than
12 months following release of said vehicle. The foregoing information shall be
made available to the authorities of the city for inspection and copying upon
their request, by the towing or storage company. The towing or storage company
is prohibited from releasing any vehicle they may tow within the city until and
unless they obtain the documentation as noted above.
         (f)   The administrative fees established by this section are to be
paid by the owner of record/interested person, or the agents of the owner or
record/interested person, of the vehicle involved in the incident leading to
custodial arrest regardless of whether that person was operating the vehicle at
the time of the incident. Vehicles towed by the police department for any
reason other than those listed above shall be released to the owner of record/
interested person with no administrative fee charged by the city. The person
purporting to be the owner of record/interested person, or the agents of the
owner of records/interested person, must present proof of ownership, current
proof of insurance and possess a valid driver's license prior to release.
         (g)   Upon verifiable proof that the vehicle used in violation was
stolen at the time it was impounded, or if the vehicle was operating as a
common carrier including, but not limited to, taxicabs or buses and the
violation occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the
vehicle, the administrative fee shall be waived by the city.
         (h)   Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any
administrative fee imposed under this section which remain unpaid in whole or
in part after the expiration of the deadline for seeking judicial review under
the Administrative Review Lay may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment
entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. This section incorporates
sections 4/201 through 4/214.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code to the extent they
are consistent. Where a provision of this section differs from sections 4/201
through 4/214.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, the provisions of this section
shall be controlling. Enforcement and administration of this section shall be
consistent with the policies and procedures of section 4/201 through 4/215 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code to the extent that said policies and procedures do
not directly conflict with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 17-06, passed 7-5-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
   Offenses relating to towing and impounding vehicles, see
Chapter 130
THROUGH, ONE-WAY, YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS, STOP INTERSECTIONS
§ 70.20 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by law as through
streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a vehicle
shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are approaching
so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard unless
directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(1975 Code, § 24.16)
§ 70.21 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by law, in any direction other than
that so designated. See
Chapter 76, Schedule I for specific one-way streets.
(1975 Code, § 24.17) (Ord. 98-04, passed 9-2-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to law, at one or more
entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not
so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event, the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(1975 Code, § 24.18)
§ 70.23 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Any street designated by law as a yield of right-of-way street and so
posted is hereby declared to be a yield right-of-way street.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle in obedience to a yield right-of-way sign
shall reduce the speed of his or her vehicle to not more than 20 mph, and shall
yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersecting
street either from the right or left or which are approaching so closely on
such intersection as to constitute a hazard; but said driver having so yielded
may proceed at such time as a safe interval occurs.
   (C)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(1975 Code, § 24.19)
§ 70.24 POSTING SIGNS; ENGINEER AND POLICE REPORT.
   The City Council shall approve the establishment of all signs, speed zones
and restricted parking zones. The Police Chief or the City Engineer shall file
a resolution-report supporting the establishment of each sign prior to being
approved by the Council. Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through,
stop and yield right-of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys and all
stop intersections.
(1975 Code, § 24.20)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The fine for violating the provisions of §
70.08 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $100 fine; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent offense(s): $250 fine.
(Ord. 09-05, passed 8-5-2009)
CHAPTER 71: RULES FOR DRIVING
Section
   
71.01   Required position and method of turning at intersection
   
71.02   Turning on the crest of a hill
   
71.03   Starting parked vehicle
   
71.04   Driver’s signal
   
71.05   Driving from alleys, driveways or garages
   
71.06   Vehicle not to be driven on sidewalks or in safety zones
   
71.07   Right-of-way
   
71.08   Vehicle turning left
   
71.09   Limitations on turning around
   
71.10   U-turn
   
71.11   No left turn; right turn
   
71.12   Fire Department vehicles; fires
   
71.13   Driving on right side of roadway
   
71.14   Passing vehicles
   
71.15   Overtaking vehicles
   
71.16   Overtaking vehicles on the right
   
71.17   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
71.18   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
71.19   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
71.20   Operation of vehicle on approach of authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.21   Reckless, negligent or careless driving
   
71.22   Speed restrictions
   
71.23   Speed limits while passing schools
   
71.24   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
71.25   Bicycles and motorcycles
   
71.26   Unattended vehicles
   
71.27   Unattended animals
   
71.28   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.29   Toy vehicles
   
71.30   Riding on running boards
   
71.31   Train signals
   
71.32   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
71.33   Drivers in a procession
   
71.34   Funeral procession to be identified
   
71.35   Backing
   
71.36   Restricted access
   
71.37   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
71.38   Limited load streets
   
71.39   School buses
   
71.40   Following too closely
   71.41   Non-highway vehicles
§ 71.01 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do
so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made
as close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, or as
indicated by traffic markers or signs.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of
the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway.
(1975 Code, § 24.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 TURNING ON THE CREST OF A HILL.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(1975 Code, § 24.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1975 Code, § 24.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 DRIVER’S SIGNAL.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
      (2)   A signal or intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible, both to
the front and rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a
lamp or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn: hand and arm, extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed, hand and arm extended downward.
(1975 Code, § 24.28) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alleys driveway or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk or across such lines.
(1975 Code, § 24.29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 VEHICLE NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS OR IN SAFETY ZONES.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area except at a
permanent or temporary driveway, nor at any time into or upon any portion of a
roadway marked as a safety zone.
(1975 Code, § 24.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching
an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two vehicles entering an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
(1975 Code, § 24.31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the
left, shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from the opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(1975 Code, § 24.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn such vehicle so
as to proceed in the opposite direction unless such movement can be made in
safety and without backing into traffic or otherwise interfering with traffic.
(1975 Code, § 24.33) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.10 U-TURN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to make a U-turn at any
place where such turns are prohibited by law. Such prohibition shall be
indicated by appropriate signs.
(1975 Code, § 24.34) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.11 NO LEFT TURN; RIGHT TURN.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn left or right
at any place where such turns are prohibited by law. Such prohibition shall be
indicated by appropriate signs.
(1975 Code, § 24.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.12 FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLES; FIRES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one on
official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm,
closer than one block, or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
   (C)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over an unprotected, hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the
Fire Chief or the assistant in command.
(1975 Code, § 24.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.13 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall, be driven upon the
right half of the roadway, except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement.
   (B)   When the right half of the roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair.
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon; or
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic.
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the wider
shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.14 PASSING VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(1975 Code, § 24.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.15 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to these limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.16 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four or more lines of moving traffic when such movement
can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right on a one-way street or on any street on which traffic is restricted to
one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstruction, and of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
(1975 Code, § 24.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.17 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle, or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing;
      (3)   When official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to the
right, or a distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the sign
manual adopted by the State Department of Public Works and Buildings; or
      (4)   The limitations in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above shall not
apply upon a one-way street, or upon a street with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when
such movement can be made with safety.
(1975 Code, § 24.41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.18 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
   (B)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven on
the right of such island.
(1975 Code, § 24.42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.19 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle
where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of traffic
within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
centerline is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is sign-posted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing specific traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
   (D)   Official traffic control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadways and drivers of vehicles shall obey
such signs.
(1975 Code, § 24.43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.20 OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when
the driver is giving audible sign by siren or bell, the driver of every other
vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position
parallel to and as close as possible to the right-hand edge or curb of the
highway clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position
until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise
directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
(1975 Code, § 24.44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.21 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless,
reckless, negligent or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(1975 Code, § 24.45) (Ord. 159, passed 1-10-1972) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.22 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street not
under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works and Buildings,
or the county, in an urban district within the city at a speed in excess of 20
mph, or in an alley, at a speed in excess of ten mph.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any highway outside the
urban district at a speed of more than 65 mph.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle of the First Division towing
another vehicle, outside of an urban district at more than 55 mph, in an urban
district at more than 20 mph or ten mph in an alley.
   (D)   Appropriate signs shall be posted showing such speed limits.
   (E)   The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions; and speed shall be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on any street or highway
within the city under the jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works
and Buildings or of the county, at a speed exceeding that lawfully set for such
street.
   (G)   Provided further that the speed of all vehicles of the Second Division
as defined by statute shall be as follows.
      (1)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying freight
and has a gross weight of 8,000 pounds or less (including the weight of the
vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is
55 mph outside of an urban district, 30 mph in an urban district, and 15 mph in
an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid tires, the
maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations.
      (2)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying freight
and has a gross weight of more than 8,000 pounds (including the weight of the
vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is
50 mph outside of an urban district, and 20 mph in an urban district and ten
mph in an alley; but if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid tires,
the maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations.
      (3)   If the vehicle is designed and used for carrying more than seven
passengers, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is 60 mph.
(1975 Code, § 24.46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.23 SPEED LIMITS WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20 mph while
passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare on or
across which children pass going to and from school during school days when
school children are present. Appropriate signs shall be posted to indicate this
restriction.
(1975 Code, § 24.47) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.24 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon the street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(1975 Code, § 24.48) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.25 BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator.
(1975 Code, § 24.49) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.26 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway or in any tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(1975 Code, § 24.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.27 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(1975 Code, § 24.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.28 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or his
or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(1975 Code, § 24.52) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.29 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or other
toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(1975 Code, § 24.53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.30 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.31 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade
crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman or automatic signal
warns of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid as cargo shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet but not less
than ten feet from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and look in
both directions along such track from which a train might come before
proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided that no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officer or a traffic-control
signal directs traffic to proceed.
(1975 Code, § 24.55) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.32 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 24.56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.33 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand side of the roadway as close as practical and shall follow the
vehicle ahead as close as practical and safe.
(1975 Code, § 24.57) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.34 FUNERAL PROCESSION TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant, or other
identifying insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted.
(1975 Code, § 24.58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.35 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic.
(1975 Code, § 24.59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.36 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled or limited
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
(1975 Code, § 24.60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.37 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any truck, except for the purpose of making a
delivery and then for one block only on any street so designated by law and
properly sign-posted.
(1975 Code, § 24.61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.38 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the city when
the gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of such vehicle
exceeds 20,000 pounds. Where lower limits are imposed by law, and signs
indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a
vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the purpose of
making delivery or picking up a load, in which case, such vehicle may be driven
on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the
purpose.
(1975 Code, § 24.62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.39 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle on any street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal as required by statute for operation while the bus is transporting
pupils; provided that the driver of a vehicle upon a street or highway of which
the roadways for traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip
of ground at least four feet wide which is not surfaced or suitable for vehicle
traffic, or on a controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted
to cross, need not stop his or her vehicle upon meeting or passing a school bus
which is on the opposite roadway.
(1975 Code, § 24.63) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.40 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
   (B)   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a street outside of a
business or residence district shall not follow within 300 feet of another
motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
The provisions of this division (B) shall not be construed to prevent
overtaking and passing nor shall the same apply upon any lane specifically
designated for use by motor vehicles of the second division.
   (C)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any street outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions.
(1975 Code, § 24.64)
§ 71.41 NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section as
defined unless context indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry
weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more non-highway tires,
designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and handlebars or steering
wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
      CITY STREETS. Any streets within the boundaries of the city which are
under the jurisdiction of the city and not under the jurisdiction of any other
unit of government.
      GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes
of transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance
equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf,
or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
      NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used
on a public highway and includes all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, off-highway
motorcycles, and recreational off-highway vehicles.
      OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Any motorized device designed to travel primarily
off-highway on two wheels having a seat or saddle for the use of the operator,
upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported or drawn.
      RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device
designed to travel primarily off highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of  2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   (B)   Requirements. The city does hereby specifically authorize the
operation of golf carts and recreational off-highway vehicles on city streets
within the city upon application and receipt of a permit from the city. The
operation of any other non-highway vehicles on city streets within the city is
prohibited. The operation of golf carts and recreational off-highway vehicles
on city streets are subject to the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle must be inspected
and certified with the city and a permit obtained pursuant to division (C);
      (2)   Upon inspection and certification with the city, the owner will
receive a permit and decal for the golf cart or recreational off-highway
vehicle. The decal must be placed on the rear of the golf cart or recreational
off-highway vehicle while operated on any city streets.
      (3)   A person may not operate a golf cart or recreational off-highway
vehicle upon any street, highway, or roadway unless he or she has a valid
driver’s license issued in his or her name by the Secretary of State or by a
foreign jurisdiction.
      (4)   The driver of the golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle
must be at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   Pursuant to the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)),
golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles operated on city streets must,
at a minimum, have the following equipment;
         (a)   Brakes;
         (b)   A steering apparatus;
         (c)   Tires;
         (d)   A rearview mirror;
         (e)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear;
         (f)   A slow moving emblem on the rear of the golf cart or
recreational off-highway vehicle (as required of other vehicles in Section 12-
709 of the Illinois Vehicle Code);
         (g)   A headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front;
         (h)   A tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100
feet from the rear;
         (i)   Brake lights;
         (j)   Turn signals.
      (6)   Drivers of golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles on city
streets must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and all ordinances
of the city;
      (7)   When operating on a city street, a golf cart or recreational off-
highway vehicle shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by
Section 12-201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/12-201).
      (8)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles must be operated
only on city streets where the posted speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less.
      (9)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles may not be operated
on state highways or any other highway or roadway not under the jurisdiction of
the city.
      (10)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles may only make a
direct crossing of a highway under the jurisdiction of the state at an
intersection controlled by a traffic light, at a four-way stop sign, or if the
speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less at the place of crossing.
      (11)   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or recreational off-highway vehicle on a roadway while under the influence
of alcohol is subject to Sections 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
      (12)   Any person who operates a golf cart or recreational off-highway
vehicle on a street, highway, or roadway shall be subject to the mandatory
insurance requirements under Article VI of Chapter 7 of this Code.
      (13)   Golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles shall not be
operated on sidewalks.
      (14)   Operators of golf carts or recreational off-highway vehicles on
city streets do so at their own risk and the city and its agents do not assume
any liability as a result of the inspection of golf carts or recreational off-
highway vehicles or by permitting their use on city streets.
   (C)   Permits. No person shall operate a golf cart or recreational off-
highway vehicle on city streets without first obtaining a permit from the city
authorizing the golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle to be operated on
city streets. Permits shall be granted for a period of one year, and shall be
renewed annually. The cost of each permit is $35 annually.
      (1)   Application for a permit to operate a golf cart or recreational
off-highway vehicle on city streets shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall be made available at City Hall. The application shall contain
the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name of liability insurance carrier;
         (c)   The serial number, make, model, and description of the golf cart
or recreational off-highway vehicle ;
         (d)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit; and
         (e)   Such further information that may be requested by the city.
      (2)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The golf cart or recreational off-highway vehicle must be
inspected by the city Chief of Police (or designee) in order to insure that the
vehicle is in compliance with this section and with the State of Illinois Motor
Vehicle Code;
         (b)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance
with the provisions of the Illinois Statutes regarding minimal liability
insurance for passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roadways in the
State of Illinois.
         (c)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the operator has violated any provision of this section or there
is evidence that the operator cannot safely operate a golf cart or recreational
off-highway vehicle on city streets.
   (D)   Violations. Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be punished by a fine of $100,
plus court costs and is subject to a revocation of the permit. To the extent
that any violation of this section also constitutes a violation of a criminal
statute of the state, the violator may also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 15-09, passed 10-7-2015, Ord. 16-07, passed 6-17-2016)
CHAPTER 72: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
72.01   Right-of-way
   
72.02   Pedestrians crossing roadway
   
72.03   Signals
   
72.04   Standing on sidewalk
   
72.05   Pedestrian crossing
   
72.06   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
72.07   Blind pedestrians; right-of-way
§ 72.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where traffic control signals or pedestrian control signals provided
for in §§
70.01 through
70.07 are not in place or in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the
right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need be to a pedestrian crossing the
roadway or street within any marked crosswalk or within any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places,
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any
pedestrian within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall
have the right-of-way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(1975 Code, § 24.71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAY.
   (A)   At no place shall the pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk, he or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with, the lawful movement of traffic.
(1975 Code, § 24.72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(1975 Code, § 24.73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 STANDING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk, except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(1975 Code, § 24.74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than a crosswalk in any
business district.
(1975 Code, § 24.75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway,
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall step
off to the left.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.76) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07 BLIND PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver
of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or highway shall
bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding, shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying such a cane or walking stick or is not guided by a dog, but the other
provisions of this chapter relating to pedestrians shall be applicable to such
person; however, the failure of a blind person to so use or so carry such a
cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks, shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence.
(1975 Code, § 24.77) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING RULES
Section
   
73.01   No parking places
   
73.02   Snow removal
   
73.03   Time limit parking
   
73.04   Illegal parking
   
73.05   Vehicles for sale
   
73.06   Loading zone
   
73.07   Alleys
   
73.08   Cab stands; bus stands
   
73.09   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
73.10   Signs
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 NO PARKING PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand at any time in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approaching
side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
   (M)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
   (N)   More than 12 inches from the curb or outside of painted parking slots;
and
   (O)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
semi-tractor, semi-trailer or truck exceeding five tons on the residential
street of the city.
(1975 Code, § 24.81) (Ord. 86-1, passed 2-5-1986) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street in the city at
any time within 12 hours after a snowfall of three inches or more has occurred.
(1975 Code, § 24.82) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for more than 48 hours in any
consecutive period of time on any street or alley.
(1975 Code, § 24.83) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 ILLEGAL PARKING.
   (A)   Illegal parking.
      (1)   Towing cars away.
         (a)   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to
traffic duty are hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and
towed away by commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public place for a period of 24 consecutive hours.
         (b)   Cars so towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a
public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator
thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing and
storing such vehicle.
      (2)   Parking at curb. No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of
such vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be
unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the
curb and with the two right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
regularly established curb line, except that upon those streets that have been
marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb
indicated by such marks.
   (B)   Downtown permissible parking.
      (1)   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be permitted to park
along either side of Vine Street between 7th Street and U.S. Route 45. Parking
in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal parking being hereby
expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be so executed that the
wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall be not farther away from the curb
than 12 inches. Parking will not be permitted within the limits of
intersections as determined by the state from intersection studies. Parking
will not be permitted on any other portion of this project.
      (2)   All applicable portions of the State Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-
303, will also apply and be a part of this section.
(1975 Code, § 24.84) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(1975 Code, § 24.85) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed 30 minutes, in any place designated by
the City Council as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the
following designated by the City Council as a loading zone and marked as such,
or in any of the following designated places:
   (A)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb line before the
entrance to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on
Sunday; or
   (C)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that the
theater is open.
(1975 Code, § 24.86) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1975 Code, § 24.87) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 CAB STANDS; BUS STANDS.
   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area
designated by ordinance as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus shall
be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
(1975 Code, § 24.88) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(1975 Code, § 24.89) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions.
(1975 Code, § 24.90)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
73.04 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100 for each offense.
(1975 Code, § 24.84)
CHAPTER 74: CONDITION/EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Clear vision
   
74.02   Gas and smoke
   
74.03   Unnecessary noise
   
74.04   Excessive noise; stopped vehicle
   
74.05   Excessive noise; wheels
   
74.06   Excessive noise; squealing tires
   
74.07   Driving unsafe vehicles prohibited
   
74.08   Spilling loads
   
74.09   Brakes
   
74.10   Horn
   
74.11   Lamps on vehicles owned by firefighters
   
74.12   Lights
   
74.13   Muffler
   
74.14   Non-skid devices
   
74.15   Width, length and height; projecting loads
   
74.16   Combination vehicles
   
74.17   Signal lamps and signal devices
   
74.18   Tires
   
74.19   Weight
   
74.20   Bicycles; lamps required
   
74.21   Motorcycles, trailers; lights required
§ 74.01 CLEAR VISION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in
such a condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of
the roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle.
   (B)   Any vehicles with the view of the roadway to the rear so obstructed
shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him or her a view of the
roadway behind him or her.
(1975 Code, § 24.91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(1975 Code, § 24.92) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
(1975 Code, § 24.93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 EXCESSIVE NOISE; STOPPED VEHICLE.
   No operator of a vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped
unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears of said vehicle in
neutral, thereby causing an unreasonable loud or excessive noise.
(1975 Code, § 24.94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.05 EXCESSIVE NOISE; WHEELS.
   No operator shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped, accelerate the engine
with the gears of such engine in neutral and while so accelerating the engine,
shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward or reverse movement, thereby
causing an unreasonable loud noise with the wheels of the said vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.95) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 EXCESSIVE NOISE; SQUEALING TIRES.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall accelerate the engine thereof when
shifting the gears of such vehicle in such a manner as to cause the wheels of
the vehicle to spin rapidly or violently, thereby causing loud or excessive
noise.
(1975 Code, § 24.96) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required by statute, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of the statutes.
(1975 Code, § 24.97) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.08 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley in the municipality.
(1975 Code, § 24.98) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicles.
(1975 Code, § 24.99) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(1975 Code, § 24.100) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.11 LAMPS ON VEHICLES OWNED BY FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a firefighter may be equipped
with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light as provided by
statute.
(1975 Code, § 24.101) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 625 ILCS 5/1-207(d)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law,
provided that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof, designated by law as a place where vehicles may be so
parked at nighttime.
(1975 Code, § 24.102) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.13 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition, and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(1975 Code, § 24.103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.14 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any motor vehicle equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(1975 Code, § 24.104) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.15 WIDTH, LENGTH AND HEIGHT; PROJECTING LOADS.
   (A)   The maximum width, length and height of any vehicle and its load shall
not exceed the limits expressed in the State Traffic Law, being 625 ILCS 5, Ch.
11.
   (B)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
(1975 Code, § 24.105) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.16 COMBINATION VEHICLES.
   (A)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, but such limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in daytime
when transporting pipes, poles, machinery and other objects which cannot be
readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles operated at nighttime by a public
utility when engaged in emergency repair work; but such loads carried at night
shall be clearly marked with sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of
the load.
   (B)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 24.106) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.17 SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds
or less, including the weight of the trailer and the maximum load, shall be
equipped with a signal lamp or signal device which is so constructed and
located on the vehicle as to give a signal of the intention to stop which shall
be red or yellow in color, and signals of intention to turn to the right or
left, all of which signals shall be plainly visible and understandable in
normal sunlight and at night from a distance of 500 feet to the rear, but shall
not project a dazzling or glaring light; except that a stop signal need be
visible only from the rear.
   (B)   Any trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less, including
the weight of the trailer and maximum load, need not be equipped with such turn
signal device unless the distance from the steering wheel of the towing vehicle
to the left outside limits of such trailer body exceeds 24 inches.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminated during the
period from sunset to sunrise or when visibility is limited as to require the
use of lights for safety.
(1975 Code, § 24.107) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.18 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(1975 Code, § 24.108) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.19 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law, or in violation of special weight limits provided for
by ordinance and sign-posted.
(1975 Code, § 24.109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.20 BICYCLES; LAMPS REQUIRED.
   Every bicycle, when upon a street, during the period from sunset to sunrise
shall be equipped with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a white light, or
light of a yellow or amber tint, visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
front of the bicycle and with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(1975 Code, § 24.110) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.21 MOTORCYCLES, TRAILERS; LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when
visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for safety, every
motorcycle operated on any street or other public place in the city shall carry
and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving light and every motor
vehicle two such lighted lamps showing white lights, or lights of a yellow or
amber tint, visible at least 500 feet in the direction toward which each
motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding, and each motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least one lighted lamp which shall be so
situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction; provided that every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or
less including the weight of the trailer and maximum load shall be equipped
with two lighted lamps, one on each side of the rear of such trailer which
shall be so situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in
the reverse direction.
(1975 Code, § 24.111) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 75: DRIVERS
Section
   
75.01   Liquor or drugs
   
75.02   Accidents
   
75.03   Downtown permissible parking
§ 75.01 LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(1975 Code, § 24.116) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.02 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident with
any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or damage,
shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible, and give
his or her true name and residence to the injured person or any other person
requesting the same on behalf of the injured person or the owner of the
property damaged, and to a police officer, if one is present. The driver of
each vehicle concerned in any such accident shall report to the nearest police
authority promptly after such accident.
(1975 Code, § 24.117) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 75.03 DOWNTOWN PERMISSIBLE PARKING.
   (A)   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be permitted to park
along either side of Vine Street between 7th Street and U.S. Route 45. Parking
in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal parking being hereby
expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be so executed that the
wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall be not farther away from the curb
than 12 inches. Parking will not be permitted within.
(1975 Code, § 24.118) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   One-way streets
   
II.   Stop streets
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by law, in any direction other than
that so designated.
   (B)   The following streets or portions of streets are hereby designated as
one-way streets and/or alleys, to be traveled in the direction as designated:
 
Street             Location             Direction           Ord. Passage Date
Court Street       North side of Square Westbound           9-2-1998
Fifth Street       From Vine to Poplar  Southbound          9-2-1998
Fourth Street      From Poplar to Vine  Northbound          9-2-1998
                   From Hess Street to
                   the intersection of
North Third Street North Third Street   North and Westbound 9-2-1998
                   with North Fourth
                   Street
Poplar Street      South side of Square Eastbound           9-2-1998
Third Street       From Vine to Main    Southbound          9-2-1998
                   Street
 
Beginning Ending Direction to be Traveled Ord. Passage Date
Beginning              Ending                 Direction to be Ord. Passage Date
                                              Traveled
North Third with its   Intersection of North  Northbound      6-6-1977
intersection at Green  Third and North Fourth
North Third with its   Intersection of North
intersection at Vine   Third and East Main    Southbound      6-6-1977
(Route 146)
North Fifth with its   Intersection of North
intersection at Vine   Fifth and West Main    Southbound      6-6-1977
(Route 146)
South Fifth with its   Intersection of South
intersection at West   Fifth and Locust       Southbound      6-6-1977
Main
South Third with its   End of South Third     Southbound      6-6-1977
intersection at Locust
Alley lying between
and parallel to North
Third and North Fourth Intersection of alley  Southbound      6-6-1977
beginning at its       and East Main
intersection at Vine
(Route 146)
North Fourth at its    Intersection of North
intersection at Vine   Fourth and East Main   Northbound      6-6-1977
(Route 146)
South Fourth at its    Intersection of North
intersection at East   Fourth and East Main   Northbound      6-6-1977
Main
Court Street at its    Intersection of Court
intersection at North  Street and North Fifth Westbound       6-6-1977
Fourth
Poplar Street at its   Intersection of Poplar
intersection at South  Street and South       Eastbound       6-6-1977
Fifth Street           Fourth
North Second beginning Intersection of North
on the property of     Second and East Green  Southbound      6-6-1977
Vienna Grade School
 
   (C)   Any other street on portion of street prominently and plainly marked
with signs placed by city officials and reading “One-Way Street” or “Do Not
Enter” or some similar designation, shall also be one-way streets, in the
direction designated.
(1975 Code, § 24.17) (Ord. 77-6, passed 6-6-1977; Ord. 98-04, passed 9-2-1998)
SCHEDULE II. STOP STREETS.
Stop Streets Through Streets
Stop Streets             Through Streets
Ball Park Street (North) W. Main Street
Eighth Street (Both)     W. Main Street
Eighth Street (South)    Locust Street
Fifth Street (Both)      Locust Street
Fifth Street (North)     College Street
Fifth Street (South)     N. Courthouse Square
Fourth Street (South)    Lewis Street
Lewis Street (Both)      S. Seventh Street
Pearl Street (East)      Sixth Street
Seventh Street (Both)    Locust Street
Seventh Street (Both)    W. Main Street
Seventh Street (North)   Hess Street
Sixth Street (Both)      Locust Street
Sixth Street (Both)      West Main Street
Tenth Street (Both)      W. Main Street
Washington Street (Both) Fifth Street
Washington Street (Both) Sixth Street
Washington Street (East) Fourth Street
 
(Ord. 77-11, passed 11-7-1977)
CHAPTER 77: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Parking prohibited
   
II.   Loading zone/reserved parking
   
III.   Parallel parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall leave standing any vehicle at any time, except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police or traffic-control device in any of the following places:
         (a)   On Vine Street (F.A. Route 51, Illinois Route 146) from the west
corporate limits easterly to a point approximately 60 feet east of north Tenth
Street;
         (b)   On Eleventh Street from the centerline of F.A. Route 51 north
for 155 feet;
         (c)   On Tenth Street from the centerline of F.A. Route 51 north for
100 feet;
         (d)   On Tenth Street from the centerline of F.A. Route 51 south for
200 feet;
         (e)   On a sidewalk;
         (f)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (g)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (h)   Within an intersection;
         (i)   On a crosswalk;
         (j)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (k)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (l)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance or entrances to any fire
station;
         (m)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
such parking would obstruct traffic;
         (n)   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge of curb of
street; or
         (o)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
      (2)   No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is unlawful or
start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change
or move the levers, brake, starting device gears or other mechanism of a parked
motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the driver
or owner thereof, or attempt to do so.
      (3)   Every person, firm or corporation who violates or fails to comply
with any of the provisions of this division (A) shall be fined not less than
$5, nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
motor vehicle within the following area: adjacent to the eastbound and
westbound through lanes of State Route 146 from the west corporate limits of
the city (approximately Station 992+65) extending easterly to the east
corporate limits of the city (approximately Station 39+15). Any person, firm or
corporation violating the provisions of this division (B) shall be fined not
less than $15, nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 71-3, passed 11-3-1971; Ord. 02-01, passed 3-6-2002)
SCHEDULE II. LOADING ZONE/RESERVED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicles upon any portion of a street
designated by official sign as a loading zone, except those vehicles which are
actually loading or unloading thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any portion of a street
designated by official sign as reserved parking, except those vehicles for
which the parking is reserved. No parking shall be reserved for private
business purposes.
   (C)   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all loading and reserved
parking zones.
   (D)   In accordance with divisions (A) through (C) above, the following
locations are designated as loading zones and reserved parking zones:
      (1)   Loading zone. Beginning at the southwest intersection of West Main
and Third Street and extending West for 64 feet on the south side of West Main;
and
      (2)   Reserved parking zone. Beginning at a point 86 feet west of the
southwest corner of Third and West Main Street, thence in a westerly direction
36 feet on the south side of West Main Street.
(Ord. 77-8, passed 8-1-1977; Ord. passed 8-1-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be permitted to park
along either side of Vine Street between 7th Street and U.S. Route 45. Parking
in this area shall be parallel parking only, diagonal parking being hereby
expressly prohibited. Such parallel parking shall be so executed that the
wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb shall be not farther away from the curb
than 12 inches. Parking will not be permitted within the limits of
intersections as determined by the state from intersection studies. Parking
will not be permitted on any other portion of this project.
   (B)   All applicable portions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/11-
303, will also apply and be a part of this schedule.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
division (A) above shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100 for each
offense.
   (D)   Divisions (A) through (D) of this schedule were prepared in connection
with the proposed improvement of F.A. Route 885 (Illinois Route 146) and F.A.
Route 881 (U.S. 45), known as State Section 107-2; 110-1; 37 (W, RS-1); 38-1,
and shall go into full force and effect at the time of the completion of said
improvement.
(Ord. 79-12, passed 11-21-1979)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
97.   OPEN BURNING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment
   
90.03   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
90.04   Authorized towing
   
90.05   Police responsibilities
   
90.06   Unknown owner
   
90.07   State police information
   
90.08   Public sale; reclamation
   
90.09   Notification; new car; mail
   
90.10   Notifications; old car
   
90.11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
90.12   Public sale proceeds
   
90.13   Antique vehicle excluded
   
90.14   Liability of city
Cross-reference:
   Towing and impounding vehicles involved in a crime, see §
70.09
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley, public way within the city.
(1975 Code, § 2.01)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part thereof on any
highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties, as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicles or any part
thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the
general public, anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on property
of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other
vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized
for removal by or upon the order of the Chief of Police Department of this
municipality, after a waiting period of seven days or more has expired.
(1975 Code, § 2.02)
§ 90.03 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this state, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the municipal
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of the municipal
Police Department shall authorize a towing service to remove and take
possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle. The towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its
contents, maintain a record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the
owner or any other person legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it
is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 2.03)
§ 90.04 AUTHORIZED TOWING.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this municipality 24 hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Chief of Police Department of this municipality.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this
municipality.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of this municipality,
the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(1975 Code, § 2.05)
§ 90.05 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing by color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style. Vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1975 Code, § 2.06)
§ 90.06 UNKNOWN OWNER.
   (A)   When the Municipal Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
state police to be searched by a directed communication to the state police for
stolen or wanted information of the vehicle. When the state police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the state police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person, advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition
to be made and setting forth public sale information.
(1975 Code, § 2.07)
§ 90.07 STATE POLICE INFORMATION.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state police for the purpose
of identifying the vehicles’ owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner.
(1975 Code, § 2.09)
§ 90.08 PUBLIC SALE; RECLAMATION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1975 Code, § 2.10)
§ 90.09 NOTIFICATION; NEW CAR; MAIL.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Police
Department or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be
sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the
vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(1975 Code, § 2.11)
§ 90.10 NOTIFICATIONS; OLD CAR.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this chapter, without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and, an examination of the state police stolen motor vehicle files
for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten-day period,
without the benefit of disposition information being received from the
registered owner the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle
as junk only.
(1975 Code, § 2.12)
§ 90.11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(1975 Code, § 2.13)
§ 90.12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
(1975 Code, § 2.14)
§ 90.13 ANTIQUE VEHICLE EXCLUDED.
   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from the provisions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 2.15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3 and Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95-1/2, §
4A-101-113
§ 90.14 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner or his or her legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
chapter.
(1975 Code, § 2.16)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Powers of the Animal Control Warden
   
91.03   Dog bites
   
91.04   Inoculation requirement
   
91.05   Collar and identification requirements
   
91.06   Impoundment
   
91.07   Redemption
   
91.08   Apprehension and investigation
   
91.09   Citations
   
91.10   Animal abandonment prohibited
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state and appointed pursuant
to this chapter.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person hired by the County Board of Commissioners
to perform the duties assigned to that person by the Animal Control Act, being
ILCS Ch. 510, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq., the County Animal Control Ordinance or the
Administrator.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. A veterinarian licensed by the state, appointed by the
Administrator and approved by the Board.
   DOG. All members of the family Canidae.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, chain or frame which shall be securely fastened
to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who has a dog or other animal in his or her care, or acts as its custodian or
who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog not on the premises of the dog’s owner or under control
by leash.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981; Ord. 2004-10, passed 10-20-2004)
§ 91.02 POWERS OF THE ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN.
   (A)   It shall be within the power of the Animal Control Warden to control
and prevent the spread of rabies through education, rabies inoculation, stray
control, impoundment, quarantine and any other means deemed necessary within
the city limits.
   (B)   The Animal Control Warden shall also have the following powers:
      (1)   Administer the Animal Control Program in the city; and
      (2)   Draft written rules and regulations for the operation of the City
Animal Control Program.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981)
§ 91.03 DOG BITES.
   (A)   Any individual having knowledge that a person has been bitten by a dog
or other animal and who fails to report such incident to the Animal Control
Warden is in violation of this chapter. It is the duty of any person conducting
or operating a medical facility or any physician or nurse to report to the
local law enforcement agency or to the Animal Control Warden when a person is
treated for any injury resulting from an animal bite. It is the duty of any law
enforcement personnel to report to the Animal Control Warden any reports which
are received concerning a person being bitten by an animal.
   (B)   When the Animal Control Warden receives information that a person
other than a family member has been bitten by a dog or other animal, the Animal
Control Warden shall have such dog or other animal quarantined for a period of
ten days. When a dog or other animal is quarantined for biting a person, the
following steps shall be followed: the Animal Control Warden shall, in writing,
notify the owner of the dog or animal to be quarantined that the owner is
responsible for all quarantine costs and if the dog or animal is not retrieved
in ten days with all costs being paid at that time, the animal shall be
humanely destroyed.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981)
§ 91.04 INOCULATION REQUIREMENT.
   Every owner of a dog four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be
inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or every three
years depending on the type of vaccine used.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981)
§ 91.05 COLLAR AND IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Every owner of a dog four months of age or more shall cause a current, valid
rabies inoculation tag to be attached to a collar or harness and worn by the
dog to which such tag was issued at all times.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981)
§ 91.06 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officers or any peace officer may apprehend and
impound the following dogs, found within the city limits:
      (1)   Dogs which have bitten a person:
      (2)   Dogs four months or more of age which have not been inoculated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian;
      (3)   Dogs four months or more of age not on the premises of their owner
and which do not have a current, valid rabies inoculation tag attached to their
collar or harness; and
      (4)   Dogs wearing a current valid rabies inoculation tag or
identification tag which are not on the premises occupied by the dog’s owner
and are not accompanied or supervised by the owner and are not on leash when a
written complaint has been received by the Animal Control Officers.
   (B)   If the Animal Control Warden elects to impound such dog under this
chapter, notice shall be immediately given to the owner by the Animal Control
Warden.
   (C)   Notice shall be mailed to the owner at the last known mailing address
and attempt to serve a copy of that notice personally on the owner.
   (D)   If the copy of the notice cannot be served personally on the owner,
the copy shall be left with any person residing at the last known mailing
address of the owner or by attaching the notice to the main entrance to the
owner’s residence.
   (E)   An affidavit or testimony of the Animal Control Warden who mails the
notice shall be prima facie evidence of the receipt of such notice by the
owner.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981; Ord. 2004-10, passed 10-20-2004)
§ 91.07 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When the owner of any dog impounded pursuant to §
91.06(A)(1) through (A)(4) desires to redeem the dog, the following procedure
shall be followed.
      (1)   At the time of impoundment the Animal Control Officer shall prepare
an impoundment form indicating the fine of $20 with space provided for the
total amount of board.
      (2)   The impounding authority shall place on the impoundment form a
charge of $10 per day for each day or part thereof which the dog was impounded.
      (3)   At the time of release, the owner shall present a current rabies
inoculation certificate. If no current rabies inoculation certificate is
available a warning ticket is to be issued and the owner must sign the warning
ticket acknowledging ownership of the dog.
   (B)   All amounts collected by the Animal Control Warden pursuant to this
section shall be placed in the Population Fund operated by the Warden.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981; Ord. 21-01, passed 1-6-2021)
§ 91.08 APPREHENSION AND INVESTIGATION.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter, the Animal
Control Warden or any peace officer may enter onto private property to
apprehend a dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies; to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal thought to be infected with rabies: to
apprehend a straying dog or other animal; or to apprehend a dog or other animal
who has bitten any person. At the request of the owner or occupier of private
property the Animal Control Warden may enter onto such property to apprehend
any dog whether or not said dog is wearing a rabies inoculation tag or an
identification tag.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981)
§ 91.09 CITATIONS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Warden of the county may issue citations to the
owners of dogs for violations of §§
91.04,
91.05 or
91.06 in lieu of impounding the dog.
   (B)   When such a citation is issued, an appearance date of not less than
ten days and not more than 45 days shall be entered by the officer on the
citation.
      (1)   First offense. The owner of the dog subject to the citation may
plead guilty to the offense charged in the citation prior to the scheduled
appearance date by so indicating on the citation and paying a fine of $50 at
City Hall without formal court appearance prior to the date appearing on the
citation. Unpaid fines and/or challenges to a violation resulting in court
appearances will include the fine fee, plus court costs payable by the dog
owner if found guilty of the violation.
      (2)   Second offense. A second violation by the same owner shall be
punishable by a fine of $200, payable to City Hall, without formal court
appearance prior to the date appearing on the citation. Unpaid fines and/or
challenges to a violation resulting in court appearances will include the fine
fee, plus court costs payable by the dog owner if found guilty of the
violation.
      (3)   Third or subsequent offense. A formal court appearance shall be
required for third and subsequent violations, which shall be punishable by a
fine not less than $400, nor more than $600, plus court costs.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981; Ord. 2004-10, passed 10-20-2004; Ord. 10-02,
passed 2-17-2010)
§ 91.10 ANIMAL ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, or to bring within the
limits of the city with the intent to abandon, any dog or cat, or to otherwise
leave such animal unattended within the city limits under circumstances where
such animal is likely to suffer injury, hunger or exposure, or where it is
likely to become a public charge.
(Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-3-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not
exceeding $750.
   (B)   Any person found to have violated §
91.10 shall be subject to a civil fine as provided in division (A) above,
except that such fine shall be not less than $500.
(Ord. 81-4, passed 3-4-1981; Ord. 2002-04, passed 7-3-2002)
CHAPTER 92: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Declaration of policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy for the state as expressed in its
Constitution and other laws in order that the safety and general welfare, peace
and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is hereby
declared that policy of the city, to assure equal opportunity to all residents,
regardless of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
physical or mental disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard
living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the city that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodations and/or
real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical disability
or mental disability or such person or persons of such person or persons or
discriminate against any person or person because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental disability in the
conditions, terms or privileges if the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodations and/or real property is in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the communities that housing supply; lessen racial ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-28-2013)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL, STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight conditions in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATION. Any differences expressed in any way toward a person or
persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or financing for,
housing accommodations and/or real property in regard to such sale, exchange,
rental lease or finance because of race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. Include any building, structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person or persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own
any beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable
title to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate
cooperative which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates, for the sale, purchase, exchange
of rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of a housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-28-2013)
§ 92.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee if the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental
disability with regard to the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing
concerning any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the city:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
city in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement of advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease, of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property in the ground of loss of value
because of the present and prospective entry to any neighborhood of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
physical or mental disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin and ancestry,
sex, creed, or physical or mental disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale of
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
physical or mental disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of
property values in the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is
located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation in its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, physical or mental disability; or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical or mental disability of the
proposed buyer or tenant.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-28-2013) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of no less than $10, nor more than $500. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section shall
in no way abrogate or impair the right of the city to specifically enforce, by
any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 2-28-2013)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
93.02   Enforcement
   
93.03   Modifications
   
93.04   Appeals
   
93.05   Fire Prevention and Safety Code adopted
   
93.06   Burning unlawful
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, those certain rules and regulations known as Life Safety Code,
NFPA101, 2000 edition thereof and all later editions and modifications of such
rules and regulations as recommended by the American Insurance Association, of
which rules and regulations not less than three copies shall be kept on file in
the City Clerk’s office and said rules and regulations are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the corporate limits of the city.
(1975 Code, § 16.01)
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(1975 Code, § 16.02)
§ 93.03 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations hereby adopted, upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
rules and regulations, provided that the spirit of the rules and regulations
shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification, when granted or allowed and the decision of
the Chief of the Fire Department thereon, shall be entered upon the records of
the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished to the office of the City
Clerk and to the applicant.
(1975 Code, § 16.03)
§ 93.04 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the
true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly
interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief of the
Fire Department to the City Council, within 30 days from the date of the
decision appealed.
(1975 Code, § 16.04)
§ 93.05 FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   The State Rules and Regulations for Fire Prevention and Safety, being 411
Ill. Adm. Code §§ 100.1 et seq., as approved and amended by the State
Department of Law Enforcement is hereby adopted by the city as fully as if set
out at length herein the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits and the area of jurisdiction of the city.
(1975 Code, § 16.06)
§ 93.06 BURNING UNLAWFUL.
   It is hereby declared unlawful to burn or cause to be burned, any paper,
trash or any other articles along the south side of Route 146, between the
highway and the back of buildings from Fourth to Fifth Streets in the city.
(1975 Code, § 16.07) Penalty, see §
93.99
Cross-reference:
   Open burning inside city limits, see
Ch. 97
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the rules and
regulations hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or
fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation
of any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder; or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the City Council, or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $50, and in the event
of a continuance of such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with such order,
each day’s continuance is a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1975 Code, § 16.08)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions and prohibition
   
94.02   Abatement notice
   
94.03   Abatement
   
94.04   Summary abatement
   
94.05   Recovery of abatement costs
   
94.06   Abandonment of refrigerators
   
94.07   Priority lien
   
94.08   Other remedies; charging violation
   
94.09   Foreclosure of lien
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Business licensing nuisances, see §
110.11
   Operation of cannabis business establishments declared a public nuisance,
see §
116.03
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS AND PROHIBITION.
   The following acts, conduct, circumstances and conditions are hereby
declared and defined to be nuisances and, when committed, performed or
permitted to exist by any person, firm, corporation, or other entity (herein
collectively referred to as “person”) within the corporate limits of the city,
whether on public or private property, are hereby declared to be unlawful and
prohibited.
   (A)   Common law nuisances. To commit, perform or permit any act or offense
that is a nuisance according to the common law of the state.
   (B)   Defined nuisance. To commit, perform or permit any act or offense
declared to be defined as a nuisance by this chapter, by this code, or by any
of the ordinances of the city or any laws of the state.
   (C)   Undefined nuisances. To commit, perform or permit any act, conduct,
circumstances or condition that constitutes an unreasonable, unwarrantable or
unlawful use by a person of property, real or personal, or from the person’s
own improper, indecent or unlawful personal conduct that works an obstruction
or injury to a right of another or of the public, and produces the material
annoyance, inconvenience, discomfort, hurt or injury that the law will presume
an actionable nuisance.
   (D)   Litter.
      (1)   To dump, deposit, drop, throw, discard, leave, cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, dropping, throwing, discarding or leaving of litter upon
any public or private property in the city or upon or into any river, lake,
pond, creek, ditch or other stream or body of water in the city (even if owned
by the person), unless:
         (a)   The property has been designated by the state, or any of its
agencies, political subdivisions, units of local government or school
districts, for the disposal of litter, and the litter is disposed of on that
property in accordance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations;
         (b)   The litter is placed into a receptacle or other container
designed for and intended by the owner or tenant in lawful possession of that
property for the lawful deposit of litter;
         (c)   The person is the owner or tenant in lawful possession of the
property or has first obtained the consent of the owner or tenant in lawful
possession, or the act is done under the personal direction of the owner or
tenant, and the same does not create a public health or safety hazard, a public
nuisance or a fire hazard;
         (d)   The person is acting under the direction of a proper public
official during special cleanup days; and
         (e)   The person is lawfully acting in response or reacting to an
emergency situation where health and safely is threatened, and removes and
properly disposes of litter when the emergency no longer exists.
      (2)   For the purpose of this division, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         LITTER. Any discarded, used or unconsumed substance or waste. LITTER
may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash, refuse, debris,
rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden waste, newspaper, magazines,
glass, metal, plastic or paper containers, or other packaging or construction
material, cigarette butts or portions of cigarettes, or filtered cigars or
portions of filtered cigars, an abandoned vehicle or a derelict vehicle as
otherwise defined by this code, motor vehicle parts, furniture, tires,
appliances, brush, oil, wire, wood, lumber, cardboard, glass, brick, stone,
rock, a carcass of a dead animal, any nauseous or offensive matter of any kind,
any object likely to injure any person or create a traffic hazard, any offal or
noisome substance or anything else of any unsightly nature.
   (E)   Litter accumulation. To allow litter to accumulate upon real property,
of which the person charged is the owner, agent, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control, in a manner as to constitute a public nuisance
or in a manner that the litter may be blown or otherwise carried by the natural
elements onto the real property of another person. For purposes of this
division, litter shall have the meaning as defined immediately above. While any
of those named may be charged under this division, if the property is a single-
family dwelling or otherwise occupied by or in the possession, charge or
control of one person or group, the person or each of the members of the group
shall be considered responsible for the accumulation unless the facts indicate
the contrary.
   (F)   Trees and plants. To allow any tree, shrub, vine, cutting, scion,
grass, plant, plant part, plant product, or any part thereof, within the city
to remain if the same is dead, dangerous or liable to fall upon neighboring
buildings or other improvements other than those belonging to the owner of the
tree or other plant. The same is infested with injurious insect pests or
infected with plant diseases that are liable to spread to other plants, plant
products or places to the injury thereof, or to the injury or damage of a
person or animal; or the same is one of any species or variety of tree, shrub,
vine or other plant not essential to the welfare of the people of the city that
may serve as a favorable host plant and/or promote the prevalence and abundance
of insect pests or plant diseases, or any stage thereof, injurious to other
plants essential to the welfare of the people of the city or to the injury or
damage of a person or animal, including, but not necessarily limited to, the
female individuals of the box elder variety of tree, further known as Acer
negundo.
   (G)   Water pollution.
      (1)   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, ditch, creek, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of others;
and
      (2)   To own, maintain, construct, use or control any unsafe or dangerous
plumbing system, in violation of the Illinois Plumbing Code or standards and
provisions of §§
151.40 through
151.43 of this code.
   (H)   Obstructions. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private
ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing places and ways to burying places.
   (I)   Noxious exhalations. To erect continue or use any building or other
place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture that, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or
dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public.
   (J)   Advertisement. To advertise or expose wares or occupations, or notices
or materials by painting notice of the same or affixing them to fences, walls,
windows, building exteriors, utility poles, or on hydrants, other public or
private property, or on rock or other natural objects, without the consent of
the owner, or if in a public right-of-way or other public place, without a sign
permit or other permission of the proper authorities.
   (K)   Unfit, unsafe or dangerous structures.
      (1)   To own, maintain, keep, let, use or occupy any building,
manufactured or mobile home, modular home, structure, shed, tent, lot,
premises, improvement, fence or any other manmade structure (in this chapter
collectively referred to as “structure”) that is unfit, unsafe or dangerous.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, a structure shall be considered
unfit, unsafe or dangerous if any one or more of the following conditions exist
with respect to the structure or any portion thereof:
         (a)   The structure or any portion thereof is designed or intended for
human habitation and is unfit for that purpose;
         (b)   The structure or any portion thereof is in violation of the
building code standards imposed by Chapter 151 of this code or otherwise fails
to comply with requirements imposed by local, state or federal law;
         (c)   The structure or any portion thereof is unfit, unsafe or
dangerous because of the lack of repair or maintenance, or it is otherwise in a
condition so that it is detrimental to life, health or safety.
         (d)   The structure or any portion thereof is dangerous to life,
health or safely because of the existence of contagious diseases or unsanitary
conditions likely to cause sickness, disease, illness or harm to its occupants,
if any, or to other persons or neighboring structures;
         (e)   The structure or any portion thereof is kept in a condition that
it or its contents occasion noxious exhalations or offensive smells;
         (f)   The structure or any portion thereof, because of faulty
construction, age, deterioration, lack of proper repair, previous fire or any
other cause or condition, is especially liable to fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard;
         (g)   The structure or any portion thereof, because of faulty
construction, age, deterioration, lack of proper repair, a previous fire or
other cause, is liable to collapse;
         (h)   The structure or any portion thereof, because of the lack of
windows or doors, or because of the presence of openings, is available to or
opened to malefactors, disorderly person, minors or any other persons who are
not the lawful or proper occupants of the structure;
         (i)   The structure of any portion thereof is under construction or
demolition, has been under construction or demolition and remains uncompleted
for an unreasonable period of time, or the construction or demolition thereof
is not diligently and promptly pursued to completion;
         (j)   The structure of any portion thereof contains violations of any
city ordinance, law, rule, regulation or code or provision that establishes
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, demolition,
sanitation or other health and safety standards with respect thereto;
         (k)   The structure or any portion thereof has been damaged or
destroyed by fire or water and is not promptly demolished, removed,
reconstructed, rebuilt or repaired, or any hole resulting after demolition or
removal of a structure has not been promptly filled with earth, stone, concrete
or solid fill to ground level; and
         (l)   The structure or any portion thereof is otherwise a dangerous
and unsafe structure, or an uncompleted and abandoned structure.
      (3)   It shall not be a defense to any of the foregoing that the
structure is boarded up or otherwise enclosed, nor may any court order a
structure to be boarded up or otherwise enclosed. It shall also not be a
defense to any action that a structure is not occupied or utility services have
been terminated or suspended.
   (L)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor or encourage an infestation of rats and mice.
   (M)   Weeds. To allow any weeds, such as jimsonweed, burdock, ragweed,
thistle, cocklebur, jimson, blue vervain, common milkweed, wild carrot, poison
ivy, wild mustard, pig weed, lambs quarter, wild lettuce, curled dock, snout
weed, poison oak, poison hemlock, wild hemp, Johnson grass or other weeds of a
like kind found growing in any lot or tract of land in the city, or weeds that
expel unpleasant or noxious odors, that may conceal filthy deposits, that are a
breeding place for mosquitoes, flies or insects or that, because of
uncleanliness and sanitation, are a menace to public health.
   (N)   Weed height. To permit any weeds, grass or plants other than lawful
trees, shrubs, vines, flowers or other similar plants commonly and generally
considered ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding six inches anywhere
in the city.
   (O)   Noncompliance with the demolition of buildings or structures ordinance
and its requirement of a fire protection guard. To undertake, permit or allow
the demolition of buildings or structures, or to not place a fire protection
guard as is required for the demolition of buildings and structures by
Chapter 151 of the city code.
   (P)   Stagnant water. To cause or suffer any body or pool of water to become
stagnant on any property under one’s control. This shall include a failure to
properly maintain any swimming pool, hot tub, wading pool or fountain so that
the same may or has become a breeding facility for mosquitoes, flies or other
insect or animal pests that are offensive, injurious or dangerous to the health
of the public.
   (Q)   Storing debris. To store, dump or permit the accumulation of debris,
refuse, garbage, tires, trash, buckets, cans, wheelbarrows, garbage cans,
animal troughs or other containers in a manner that may harbor mosquitoes,
flies, insects, rodents, nuisance birds, possums, skunks, groundhogs or other
animal pests that are offensive, injurious and dangerous to the health of
individuals or the public.
   (R)   Motor transport engines. To operate motor transport engines between
the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in any place in which a majority of the
buildings within a 400-foot radius of the vehicle are used exclusively for
residential purposes, excluding state and federal highways.
   (S)   Open burning.
      (1)   (a) To cause, permit or allow the open burning of landscape waste
or municipal solid waste.
         (b) To cause, permit or allow the open burning of agricultural or
domicile waste.
      (2)   It shall not be a nuisance to commit any act herein above
prohibited by division (S)(l)(a) and (b), if the person or entity committing
the act shall have first been issued a permit or other written authorization to
do so from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA), so long as the
permit or other written authorization is valid and in full force and effect,
and so long as the person or entity is in full compliance with all conditions
of the permit or other written authorization.
   (T)   Public right-of-way. Any area between the street or alley and private
property, including ditches.
      (1)   Duties of private owners as to public rights-of-way located between
a street or alley and private property. It shall be the duty of any person who
owns or occupies private property located adjacent to a public street or alley
in the city to maintain and mow the public right-of-way, with the weeds and
grass on the public right-of-way not to exceed six inches in height.
      (2)   Notice. The city shall, by and through its employees or agents,
cause to be served upon an owner or occupant adjacent private property a notice
ordering that person to maintain and mow the grass and weeds on the right-of-
way within five days from the date of the notice.
(1975 Code, §§ 25.01, 25.02) (Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 740 ILCS 55/221—222
§ 94.02 ABATEMENT NOTICE.
   (A)   Generally. The owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge
or control of any land, structure, premises, item or object, real or personal,
in or upon which any nuisance exists shall be served a notice to abate the same
within a specified reasonable time in a manner as the notice shall direct or in
any other reasonable manner. The time allowed by the notice shall, in any
event, be considered reasonable if five days’ notice is given.
   (B)   Person giving notice. A notice to abate a nuisance may be given by the
Building Inspector, the city's Code Enforcement or Abatement Officers, the
Chief of the Police Department, the Chief of the Fire Department, any member of
the Police Department, any member of the Fire Department, or any person
designated by the Mayor as having authority to give the notice, and any other
person or officer of the city possessing police powers.
   (C)   Service of notice. It shall be considered sufficient to notify the
owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of the land,
structure, premises, item or object in or upon which the nuisance exists, in
person or by ordinary mail sent to the owner of the premises as disclosed in
the current tax records of the county. A notice shall be deemed sufficient
although the person to which it is directed refused delivery of the same, or if
it is not deliverable. The notice shall be presumed delivered if not returned
to the city as not deliverable. In the event the owner, agent, occupant or
person in possession, charge or control of the land, structure, premises, item
or object is unknown or through a reasonable search is not ascertainable, it
shall be sufficient to give notice by posting on the premises. If notice is
served on anyone other than the owner as shown in the tax records of the
county, a copy thereof shall be delivered personally to the owner or sent by
ordinary mail to the owner at the same time as notice is given to the other
person. If any nuisance relates to an unfit, unsafe or dangerous structure, a
copy of the notice shall also be sent to any lien holders of record, provided
the lack of the notice shall not affect any proceedings hereunder.
   (D)   Contents of notice. Every notice served under this chapter shall, in
addition to requiring the abatement of the nuisance, state the proposed method
of abatement and warn the person to which the notice is directed that a failure
to accomplish the abatement within the time stated therein may result in the
abatement of the nuisance by the city, and that the cost or expenses related to
the removal by the city shall be charged to the person. The proposed method of
abatement shall not limit the method of abatement to be used.
   (E)   Posting property.
      (1)   Any real or personal property relative to which a notice has or is
about to be given may be posted, advising that the property has been declared a
nuisance, has been condemned, has been declared dangerous and unsafe, or has
been declared unsafe for human occupancy or use. The form of notice shall be
determined by the person giving the notice. No person shall remove any sign or
poster without the permission of the person posting the notice, or if unknown,
the Chief of Police or the Mayor.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this code for any person to use or
occupy any real or personal property that has been posted as unsafe for human
occupancy or use in accordance herewith.
   (F)   Nuisance resumed. The city shall not be required to issue a second or
subsequent abatement notice where the nuisance is at first abated, but later is
resumed or is repeated.
(1975 Code, § 25.04) (Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Expiration of time limit. If a nuisance is not timely abated after
notice is given in accordance with this chapter, the city may immediately
proceed to abate or remove the nuisance after the time limit slated in the
notice has expired, irrespective of whether a charge is filed alleging
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Methods of abatement.
      (1)   If abatement is authorized under this chapter, the city may abate
or remove the nuisance in any and all of the following manners, except as may
be otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction:
         (a)   Proceeding to abate or remove the nuisance using city employees
or independent contractors in any reasonable manner. In the case of a
structure, abatement may, as appropriate, be by
demolition or repair of a structure or by causing its demolition or repair;
         (b)   Any other manner allowed by law or in equity or reasonable under
the circumstances: or
         (c)   Any manner authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The proposed method of abatement shall not limit the method of
abatement that may be used, unless otherwise ordered by the court, or diminish
the discretion of the court to order that the person charged to abate a
nuisance or to enter any other appropriate order.
(1975 Code, § 25.06) (Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.04 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   Whenever, in the opinion of the officer of the city entitled to give notice
pursuant to this chapter, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates
an imminent threat of serious or unreasonable injury to a person or serious or
unreasonable damage to personal or real property, the officer may immediately
proceed to abate the nuisance in any reasonable manner if circumstances do not
allow implementation or full implementation of ordinary abatement procedures as
set forth in §
94.02. Whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession, charge or
control of the real or personal property that has become a nuisance is unknown,
cannot readily be found, or circumstances do not allow to be known or found,
the officer may proceed to abate the nuisance without notice. Any reasonable
order may be entered by the official to abate a nuisance summarily when
circumstances require and may include, but shall not be limited to, prohibiting
occupancy of a structure. A copy of the order or other notice thereof may be
posted on the real or personal property involved. It shall be unlawful for any
person to disobey, remove or deface any order or notice. Where the abatement of
the nuisance requires continuing acts by the corporate authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement or any other additional summary abatement, it may
seek abatement of the nuisance on a permanent basis through a court order as
soon as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.05 RECOVERY OF ABATEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever the city is required to abate or remove a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter or as otherwise allowed by ordinances of the city, the
costs or expenses shall be a lien on the property to which they apply. If the
property is personal property, the lien shall be on the real estate on which or
at which the personal property is located. The city may collect the costs and
expenses thereof in accordance with this section, in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-15, or by use of the Local Debt Recovery Program administered by the
State of Illinois.
   (B)   Determination of costs. The determination of costs of abatement shall
be made by the City Clerk or his or her designee. The determination shall equal
the actual costs of abatement or removal, provided that the costs, if performed
by employees of the city, shall not be less than total of $150. The costs of
abatement shall also include the actual costs of mailing or serving documents,
recording documents and any other incidental expenses.
   (C)   Notice of cost. Within 60 days after the costs or expenses are
incurred to abate or remove a nuisance, the City Clerk or his or her designee
shall give, or cause to be given, a statement notifying the person to whom the
notice to abate a nuisance was sent, setting forth the cost or expenses
incurred by the city to abate or remove the nuisance. The notice shall also
identify the parcel by common description and describe the removal or abatement
activity. The notice shall include a copy of this section and 65 ILCS 5/11-20-
15. The notice shall be served personally or by certified mail upon the person
to whom the tax bill for general taxes was sent for the tax year immediately
preceding the removal activity.
   (D)   Notice of lien. Within 60 days after the city incurs the costs and
expenses of the abatement of any nuisance, the city or any person performing
the service by authority of the city, in his, her or its own name, shall be
entitled to a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens
and encumbrances except tax liens, and prior recorded liens or encumbrances in
reference to grass and weed cutting, and superior to all subsequent liens and
encumbrances, except lax liens, in reference to abatement of all other
nuisances. A notice of lien shall be filed within 60 days in the Office of the
County Recorder.
      (1)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out the
following:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when the costs and expenses were incurred by
the municipality.
      (2)   The notice of the lien shall be enforced and may be released in the
manner provided by the applicable statute. A copy of the lien notice shall be
sent by certified mail to the person to whom was sent the tax bill for the
general taxes on the property for the last preceding year. Attached to the
notice shall be a copy of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7 as well as a copy of the applicable
provision of this chapter. For purposes of this division (D), the notice of
cost, as provided in division (C) of this section, when sent or delivered as
aforesaid, shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of the notice of lien
as provided herein.
   (E)   Certification. If the notice of cost is not paid within 30 days after
the date thereof, the City Clerk, or his or her designee, may certify the same
to the County Clerk of the county or place the matter for collection with the
Local Debt Recovery Program administered by the State of Illinois. The
certification shall contain, to the best of the knowledge and belief of the
City Clerk, the name of the owner of the real estate as disclosed on the tax
records of the county, a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, the real estate tax number of the real estate, and the
amount of the costs and expenses incurred. In determining the last date for
filing the certification, the last date of payment within the 30 days
prescribed shall apply rather than the date the work is performed or the notice
originally given. The amount so certified shall be deemed to be levied by the
city as an individual assessment against the property involved. No further
action need be taken by the corporate authorities to levy the amount.
   (F)   Extension of assessment. The County Clerk shall extend, in the same
manner as other taxes relative to real estate, an individual assessment equal
to the total of the amount certified to the County Clerk by the City Clerk. The
assessment shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes and paid to the
city.
   (G)   Recorded notice of assessment. In addition to filing the above
certificate with the County Clerk, the City Clerk, if not collecting through
the Local Debt Recovery Program administered by the State of Illinois, shall
cause a notice of the assessment to be filed in the Office of the County
Recorder of Deeds at that time. The notice shall certify the description of the
real estate sufficient for identification thereof and the amount of the
assessment. The recorded copy of the certification to the County Clerk shall be
considered sufficient.
   (H)   Bona fide purchasers. The claim of the city pursuant to these
provisions shall not be valid as to any purchasers for good and sufficient
value, and without notice, whose rights in and to the real estate have arisen
subsequent to the abatement or removal of the nuisance, and prior to the filing
of the notice with the County Recorder of Deeds. If the City Clerk is notified
of the existence of a bona fide purchaser for value, the Clerk, or his or her
designee, shall, if satisfied that the purchaser is bona fide, abate the
individual assessment. The assessment may also be abated if earlier paid.
Notice of abatement shall be filed with the County Clerk and the County
Recorder of Deeds. The abatement shall not terminate any claim against the
prior owner of the real estate.
   (I)   Other remedies. The above divisions shall not limit any other remedies
of the city to collect costs or expenses. A court may, when considering a
charge of violating this chapter, order payment of the charges incurred by the
city, including attorney’s fees. The city may also enforce a lien as in cases
of foreclosure.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.06 ABANDONMENT OF REFRIGERATORS.
   No person or entity shall abandon or discard in any place accessible to
children within the city any refrigerator, ice box or ice chest of a capacity
of one and one-half cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door.
Further, no owner or lessee in apparent control, possession or charge of any
such place shall knowingly permit such an abandoned or discarded refrigerator,
ice box or ice chest to remain there in such condition. Such activity shall
also constitute a public nuisance and shall be subject to all remedies and
penalties provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 PRIORITY LIEN.
   Charges incurred by the city for removal costs pursuant to § 94.05 or for
removal costs incurred pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7(d), 65 ILCS 5/11-20-8(d),
65 ILCS 5/11-20-12(d) or 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13(e), or for securing or enclosing
costs pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01 with respect to an abandoned residential
property, shall become a priority lien, superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens, upon the election of the city and upon adherence
or compliance with 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.08 OTHER REMEDIES; CHARGING VIOLATIONS.
   This chapter shall not limit any other rights or remedies of the city
provided in this code or any other ordinance, statute, law, rule or regulation
regarding the subject matter of this chapter. These remedies are deemed
cumulative. In addition to the foregoing, a violation may be charged under the
provisions of this chapter regardless of whether a notice to abate a nuisance
has been given, or whether the time to abate a nuisance has expired. It shall
be sufficient in charging a violation of this chapter to merely cite “§ 94.01
(Nuisance)” or some equivalent; provided a court may subsequently direct a more
specific pleading be filed.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.09 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   In the event the city begins a foreclosure action to enforce a lien,
including liens provided for in this chapter and in the Illinois Municipal
Code, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   65 ILCS 5/11-20-15;
      (2)   65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1;
      (3)   65 ILCS 5/11-31-1;
   (B)   Then the following shall be included in the amount to be recovered by
the city in enforcing the lien:
      (1)   Reasonable attorney’s fees, costs and expenses incurred by the city
in the foreclosure process, costs and expenses incurred by the city in
preserving the property, expert witness fees, and all other court costs; and
      (2)   Interest at the rate of 10% per annum, from the time that the
notice of lien was recorded with the County Clerk.
(Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter and who is issued a notice to appear citation
therefor, shall, upon conviction or entry of a plea of guilty to such charge,
be fined not less than $150 plus costs nor more than $750 plus costs. This
shall be in addition to any other relief provided in this code or as the law
may afford. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 25.07) (Ord. 22-03, passed 2-2-2022)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   Regulations
   
95.02   Supervision over park
   
95.03   Liquor in park
   
95.04   Disorderly conduct
   
95.05   Sanctuary for animals
   
95.06   Litter in parks
   
95.07   Speed limits
   
95.08   Park shelters
   
95.09   Amphitheater
Tobacco and Nicotine
   
95.20   Definitions and exceptions
   
95.21   Prohibition
   
95.22   Enforcement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All vehicles, motor driven and otherwise, including two-wheeled cycles
are prohibited at all times from the city ball park diamonds.
   (B)   All vehicles, motor driven and otherwise, including two wheeled cycles
are prohibited from all other areas of the city ball park, except for parking
purposes during practice sessions and games.
(1975 Code, § 28.01) (Ord. 73-1, passed 6-29-1973) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 SUPERVISION OVER PARK.
   The Council shall have control and general supervision of the park with
authority to designate and specify places within the park that may be made use
of for the purpose of various amusements.
(1975 Code, § 28.03)
§ 95.03 LIQUOR IN PARK.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage enumerated in the Illinois Liquor
Control Act (235 ILCS 5/1-2 et seq.).
      SPECIAL EVENT. A single event or a series of events, to which the public
is invited to watch, listen or participate, which includes, but is not limited
to, festivals, community event or any other type of similar social event.
   (B)   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages in public parks. No
person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverage in or at any public park
or parkland operated or owned by the city, except as provided in this chapter.
Alcoholic beverages may be possessed and consumed at a public park owned or
operated by the city, provided that: the alcoholic beverage is purchased from a
licensed retailer within the park at an event authorized by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner; the retailer has obtained a valid special use permit
authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at the designated site for the event;
and consumption of the alcoholic beverage takes place within the retailer’s
pre-approved boundaries as designated by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   (C)   Signs and notices. Signs shall be posted and notices shall be placed
in the parks stating substantially as follows: “NO ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE MAY BE
BROUGHT INTO THIS PARK OR CONSUMED IN THIS PARK. CITY ORDINANCE ENFORCED.” The
signs shall be placed in locations to be visible on entering the park.
(1975 Code, § 28.04) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-15-1991; Ord. 10-12, passed 8-4-2010)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the park to engage
in any disorderly or boisterous or unseemly conduct.
(1975 Code, § 28.05) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 SANCTUARY FOR ANIMALS.
   (A)   The park shall be a sanctuary for birds of all kinds, and for
squirrels and rabbits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb the nest of any bird,
or to shoot at any bird, squirrel or rabbit with any kind of gun, or bow and
arrow, or to set any trap for the purpose of ensnaring any bird, squirrel or
rabbit, within the limits of the park.
(1975 Code, § 28.06) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 LITTER IN PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or discard litter in any park within the city
except in receptacles provided for the purpose, and in such a manner that the
litter will be prevented from being carried, or deposited by the elements upon
any part of the park or upon any other public place or private premises. Where
receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be removed from the park by
the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere in a
lawful manner.
   (B)   The word LITTER as used herein shall mean garbage, refuse, rubbish,
trash, waste, including without limitation paper products, food or beverage
containers and wrappings, or parts thereof, and any other waste material which
if deposited or discarded as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to
public health, safety and welfare, including the aesthetic enjoyment of the
park premises.
(1975 Code, § 28.07) (Ord. 92-4, passed 5-20-1992) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 SPEED LIMITS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision in the city ordinances, no person shall
operate any motor vehicle in the community park at a speed in excess of ten
mph. No person shall operate any motor vehicle in the Vienna Ball Park at a
speed greater than ten mph.
(1975 Code, § 28.08) (Ord. 92-4, passed 5-20-1992) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 PARK SHELTERS.
   (A)   The City Council has the legal authority to establish rules,
regulations and procedures for the use of the city park and park shelters.
   (B)   The following rental rules and priorities shall be established.
      (1)   Fees for park shelters that can be reserved during regular hours of
operation shall be as follows.
         (a)   Pavilion #1, Eagles Nest: $25.
         (b)   Pavilion # 2, Rams Lodge: $25.
         (c)   Pavilion # 3, Tecumseh Lodge: $25.
         (d)   Pavilion # 4, Cherokee Lodge: $25.
      (2)   The rental fee includes any time frame within the available rental
hours on a daily basis.
      (3)   The following rental rules shall be established.
         (a)   Shelters may be reserved up to one year in advance.
         (b)   Requests for private use of park shelters should be directed to
the city, City Hall at 618-658-5161 or by visiting www.cityofviennail.net/
under the contact us link.
         (c)   Reservations will occur on a first-come, first-served basis.
   (C)   An official reservation can be made via the city website, in person or
a phone call to City Hall, accompanied by the full rental fee. If sending a
check, payment must be received at least five days before the rental date.
Reservation inquiries may be made by contacting City Hall at (618) 658-5161. A
rental/reservation receipt will be provided to you to confirm your rental/
reservation. The city does not post reserved signs at shelters. Please retain
your receipt for proof of reservation. Any reservations made before the
adoption of this amendment will be honored per the former fee.
(Ord. 13-06, passed 11-6-2013; Res. 19-01, passed 3-20-2019; Res. 21-04, passed
7-21-2021)
§ 95.09 AMPHITHEATER.
   (A)   The Amphitheater can be reserved during regular hours of operations.
   (B)   The rental fee for the Amphitheater is $50 for up to four hours and
$100 for all day. The rental fee is non-refundable, unless the city park is
closed at the direction of the city. A security deposit of $50 is due upon
reservation. The security deposit is required to be paid in cash.
   (C)   Renters are required to clean up all trash and debris following their
rental period. Renters are required to return the premises in good order and
the same condition as received. The renter shall not allow any damage to be
incurred and is responsible for the cost of any repair for damage received
during his or her rental period. The security deposit shall be retained by the
city and applied to the cost of any cleaning or repairs necessary to restore
the rental to its condition prior to the rental period. The renter is
responsible for the remaining balance of any damage incurred.
   (D)   The security deposit will be returned to the renter upon determination
by the city that no damage has been incurred and no clean-up was required by
city employees. The renter may return to City Hall no sooner than five days and
no later than 14 days following the rental period to receive any refund of
security deposit owed pursuant to these terms and conditions.
   (E)   The Amphitheater may be reserved up to one year in advance. Requests
for private use of the Amphitheater should be directed to City Hall in person,
by phone at (618) 658-5161, or by visiting http://www.cityofviennail.net.
Payment by check must be received within five days before the rental date.
Reservations are on a first come, first serve basis. A rental/reservation
receipt will be provided.
(Res. 21-05, passed 7-21-2021)
TOBACCO AND NICOTINE
§ 95.20 DEFINITIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SMOKING. Carrying, burning, exhaling, or inhaling, any lit tobacco
products such as cigars, cigarettes, e-cigarettes, pipes, vapes, or any other
lighted combustible plant material.
      TOBACCO. Any product containing, made or derived from tobacco or
synthetic nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether absorbed,
chewed, dissolved, inhaled, ingested by any means or  any component, part or
accessory, in any form including e-cigarettes (vaping) and electronic delivery
systems (ENDS), sniffed, snorted, or any tobacco product to include, but not
limited to any lighted or unlit cigarette, cigar, pipe, and any other smoking
product, and spit tobacco, also known as smokeless, dip, chew, snus, and snuff.
   (B)   Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved cessation products
including nicotine gum, nicotine lozenges, nicotine patch, pharmaceutical
nicotine inhalers and nicotine nasal spray are excepted from the prohibitions
of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-4-2024)
§ 95.21 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Tobacco/nicotine use and vaping is prohibited in designated areas of
all city parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   The designated areas shall be within 50 feet of the following:
      (1)   Playgrounds at the city park and all ball parks;
      (2)   The amphitheater in the city park during events held there; and
      (3)   The dugouts and bleachers at the ball parks during games or events
held there.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-4-2024) Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Appropriate signage shall be posted in or near non-tobacco/nicotine
designated areas.
   (B)   Notice of adoption of this subchapter shall be published in the Vienna
Times and annual reminders shall be similarly published.
   (C)   City officials will make periodic observations to monitor for
compliance.
   (D)   All athlete associations or organizations who utilize the city park
and ballpark will be provided a copy of this subchapter and expected to enforce
this subchapter during scheduled activities.
   (E)   Any person found violating this policy will be subject to immediate
ejection from the property at any given time and/or for the remainder of the
event.
(Ord. 24-04, passed 9-4-2024)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not exceeding $50.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
95.03 shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
95.21 shall first be given a warning. A person found guilty of further
violations shall be issued a citation with a court appearance date. The fine
for such violation shall be $100 if paid within 15 days at City Hall. If not
paid within 15 days at City Hall, the fine shall be $125 plus assessment to be
paid at the Circuit Clerk’s office at the Johnston County, Illinois Courthouse.
No fines or penalties may be paid at City Hall more than 15 days after receipt
of the citation.
(1975 Code, § 28.02) (Ord. 91-4, passed 5-15-1991; Ord. 24-04, passed 9-4-
2024)CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Department established
   
96.02   Committee on streets
   
96.03   Undermining
   
96.04   Open doors
   
96.05   Vaults
   
96.06   Stairway; railing
   
96.07   Closing street
   
96.08   Signs across street
   
96.09   Posts or awnings
   
96.10   Vehicles on sidewalk
   
96.11   Culverts
   
96.12   Obstructing street
   
96.13   Water from eaves
   
96.14   Building materials in street
   
96.15   Signs on poles
   
96.16   Trees
   
96.17   Excavations in streets
   
96.18   Obstructing work in street
   
96.19   Barriers and lights
   
96.20   Lights on material in street
   
96.21   Interference with barriers and lights
   
96.22   Liability of persons to city for damage
   
96.23   Sidewalks
   
96.24   Curbs and gutters
   
96.25   Storm sewers
   
96.26   Encroachment
   
96.27   Water and sewer collection system
   
96.28   Street advertising by means of a billboard
   96.29   Placement of trash containers
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government
which shall be known as the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall embrace the Street Committee, the Superintendent and the
employees. The City Engineer shall serve as ex officio officer.
(1975 Code, § 33.01) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 COMMITTEE ON STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council Standing Committee on Streets shall exercise a
general supervision over the affairs of the Street Department.
   (B)   It shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and Council.
(1975 Code, § 33.02) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 UNDERMINING.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street, or any other ground or
real estate situated in the city, or to any private person.
(1975 Code, § 33.03) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open, or allow to remain open, any door or the grating of
any vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her, on any street,
alley or sidewalk in the city for any purpose, except the taking in and
removing goods; and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn
passers-by of the danger.
(1975 Code, § 33.04) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 VAULTS.
   No person shall dig or cause to be dug, in any street or sidewalk, any
vault, without covering the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent
persons, animals and vehicles from falling into the excavation. Such vault
shall be in conformance with other code provisions.
(1975 Code, § 33.05) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairway leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case, the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1975 Code, § 33.06) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 CLOSING STREET.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or public place
temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating that the
street, alley or public place is closed by order of the Mayor. Whenever such
signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon, or cross such street,
alley or public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface or remove any such
sign.
(1975 Code, § 33.07) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.08 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street or alley in the city, unless he or she has written approval of the
City Council.
(1975 Code, § 33.09) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-17
§ 96.09 POSTS OR AWNINGS.
   No person shall, in the city, without written consent from the City Council,
set up or cause to be set up any awning or other posts, on any street, alley or
sidewalk, or any sign, sign box or fixture, which shall extend over upon any
sidewalk, or suspend any merchandise or other articles in front of any house
more than two feet from the wall thereof, and so that any part of the same
shall be less than eight feet above the ground or pavement.
(1975 Code, § 33.10) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK.
   No person shall operate any bicycle, or vehicle over any sidewalk except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(1975 Code, § 33.11) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 CULVERTS.
   (A)   The city will provide one 12 inches in diameter drainage culvert, 20
feet in length, per lot and the same shall be installed by the city employees
upon approval of the Street Superintendent.
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for additional expenses on
culverts larger than described in division (A) above.
(1975 Code, § 33.12) (Ord. 79-bA, passed 7-5-1979) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the city any debris,
materials or obstruction, except as may be permitted by this code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police to exercise a vigilant supervision
over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit, or
responsible for the same, to remove the offending matter at once.
(1975 Code, § 33.13) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.13 WATER FROM EAVES.
   No person owning or occupying any building in the city shall cause pipes
conducting the water from the eaves of a building to be constructed as to
spread the water over the sidewalk.
(1975 Code, § 33.14) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.14 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   The Superintendent of Streets may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the city, but before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor, to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street, may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed. Such person shall, at night, keep a red light on such material.
(1975 Code, § 33.15) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.15 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and fire-alarm
pole, or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk, street,
alley or public grounds or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1975 Code, § 33.17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 TREES.
   (A)   Planting. Trees placed along any street within the city shall be
planted on a line at least seven feet inside the property line abutting streets
or alleys. Any person who plants any tree upon any street, contrary to the
provisions of this code, shall be subject to the penalty provided for violation
of this code and for each tree so planted. Such tree may be cut down and
removed by the Superintendent of Streets or Water at the expense of the person.
   (B)   Injuring. No person, telephone company or electric company shall cut,
fell, injure or remove, or cause to be cut, any limb or limbs of any tree on
any street, sidewalk or public grounds of the city, except by the authority of
the Superintendent of Streets.
   (C)   Trimming. Trees along any street of the city shall have the branches
thereof cut and trimmed up to at least ten feet above the ground, so that the
same shall not inconvenience the passage of persons or vehicles along any
street, or sidewalk, or obstruct the light of street lamps.
   (D)   Interference with wires. If a tree is permitted by the owner or
occupant of any premises in the city to grow in such a manner as to interfere
with any electric or telephone main feed wires, the Superintendent of Streets
shall order such owner to trim such trees specified and in such a manner as to
remove the obstruction or interference. If any person so notified fails to
comply with such notice, he or she shall be subject to the penalty provided for
violation of this code, and the Superintendent of Streets shall cause such
trees to be trimmed, and the costs thereof may be recovered by suit against
such person.
   (E)   Decayed trees. Any person owning a parcel of land whereon is situated
a decayed or dead tree which extends over any sidewalk or street, shall remove
such dead or decayed tree or parts thereof in such a manner that danger to the
public is eliminated within ten days upon official notification.
(1975 Code, § 33.18) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 EXCAVATIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
apply:
      APPLICANT. Any person or company applying for a permit from the city to:
(1) cut, excavate or bore under the surface of a city street, right-of-way,
and/or sidewalk; and/or (2) extend a tap into a city water line or sewer.
      DESIGNEE. An employee of the city authorized by a city superintendent to
act on his or her behalf.
      EASEMENT. A written consent by the City Council allowing the use of city
real estate for a limited specified purpose.
      EXCAVATION. The making of a hole, bore, trench or ditch in the surface of
a city street or
other city real estate by removing material from there.
      PERMIT. A written form provided by the city giving consent to excavate or
bore under a city street, city right-of-way or other city real estate.
      PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit has been issued.
      PERSON. Any individual, business entity or one acting in a representative
capacity for any purpose.
      STREET CUT or CUT. A trench, ditch, bore, hole or any excavation made in
the surface of a city street, alley, sidewalk or right of way.
      STREET. Any public way or thorough fare owned by the city for use by
vehicular traffic by the public.
      SUPERINTENDENT OR DESIGNEE. The person employed by the City Council to
supervise and
administer the construction and maintenance of city streets, alleys, sidewalks,
the gas system, the city storm water drainage system, distribution of water to
the citizens of and treatment of waste water for citizens of Vienna.
      UTILITY. Any corporation or entity that provides, but is not limited to,
electric, gas, water, sewer, telephone, internet, fiber optic or television
service.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Any person who desires to make a street cut or bore or otherwise
use city real estate or right of way must make application at City Hall for a
permit. The application shall be referred to the appropriate Superintendent(s)
who shall review and determine if a permit should be issued. The application
must be signed-off by the Superintendent or designee before any excavation or
boring may begin. No street cut or other similar use of city real estate shall
be made unless a permit has been issued.
      (2)   The application for such permit shall state the purpose of the
proposed cut or bore, the location and the dimension of the cut.
      (3)   Before the permittee begins a cut of the surface of city property,
i.e. city street, alley or other city owned real estate, or involving a city-
owned utility, the permittee must notify the Superintendent of the time and day
he intends to commence. Unless the Superintendent determines there is reason to
delay, the permittee may proceed.
      (4)   When the permittee has completed the purpose for which the cut is
made, the Superintendent
shall be notified by the permittee, before the hole, trench or ditch is back-
filled. The Superintendent or his designee shall inspect the project to ensure
the tap/ extension/cut is completed to the city requirements.
      (5)   (a)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by the
following fees and security deposits:
            1.   $150 fee for repair or replacement of an existing utility line
(water, sewer, electric, gas, fiber, telephone, cable, etc.);
            2.   $1,000 fee for new construction;
            3.   $750 as a security deposit for a single cut, bore, or
excavation;
            4.   $5,000 as a security deposit for multiple cuts, bores, or for
excavations that involve laying substantial lengths of line, cable, or fiber.
            5.   A cashier's check or money order may be used in lieu of cash
for the security deposit.
         (b)   The security deposit will be returned following confirmation by
the Superintendent that all cuts, bores, and excavations have been closed and
all right of way fully restored to a condition that meets or exceeds city's
requirements or standards.
         (c)   The Superintendent at his discretion may waive the deposit and
may waive the permit fee for a single cut, bore, or excavation where it finds
the same would cause undue financial hardship.
      (6)   The permit will contain an agreed time frame for the work to be
completed.
   (C)   Excavation and cuts.
      (1)   Any concrete or asphalt street surface to be disturbed for exaction
shall have the edges or the area to be excavated saw-cut.
      (2)   Excavations shall not be filled until the Superintendent or his
designee has inspected the extension or tap and given his approval.
      (3)   All street and sidewalk excavations back-fill shall consist of
granular crushed stone (sand is required at least six inches above and below
all exposed gas lines) compacted in eight inches lifts to compaction of 90%.
Back-fill shall be made to eight inches of the surface. Then concrete (not
Quickcrete or comparable) eight inches thick shall be put in place for the
surface.
      (4)   All sidewalk crossings must be saw cut and new concrete a minimum
of four inches thick must be poured to restore the sidewalk.
      (5)   If necessary to preserve the safety of pedestrians and vehicular
traffic, barricades or other traffic control devices should be put in place.
The permittee shall notify the Superintendent for direction or assistance.
      (6)   Before commencing any cut, the permittee shall notify J.U.L.I.E. of
the proposed area to excavated or bored. The permittee shall pre-mark the
entire area where work is to be performed. The excavation work must begin
within the period required by the J.U.L.I.E. notification law. A fee of $100
per location shall be charged to the permittee for a second or subsequent
utility locate required to be performed by the city to comply with the
J.U.L.I.E law. No excavation shall be allowed to commence or continue until
such fees are paid.
      (7)   The permittee shall be liable for all damage inflicted on any real
or personal property as a result of undertaking to make a cut, excavation, or
bore.
      (8)   The permittee shall be responsible for removing from the site and
disposing of all material excavated from the site. Permittee shall be
responsible for timely clean-up of the site otherwise.
      (9)   As nearly as can be done responsibly, permittee shall use all
precaution to prevent obstruction of flow of storm water at the site of
excavation and shall take appropriate measures to minimize erosion and prevent
excavation spoils from washing onto adjacent right of ways or into adjacent
ditches.
      (10)   All utilities installed parallel to city utilities must be a
minimum of five feet away and crossings must be a minimum of two feet under
city utilities. No utilities will be installed over existing city utilities.
      (11)   The permittee shall be liable for any culvert damage.
      (12)   All fiber optic cable vaults will be tier 22 class.
      (13)   All city utilities must be located by pothole method or otherwise
hand digging at any crossing points to ensure minimum clearances are met.
   (D)   Restoration of street cuts. Back-fill of an excavation and resurface
of street cut shall be completed in compliance with divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3)
above. Such completion shall be done within no more than three days and must
meet the approval of the Superintendent or his designee. All traffic control
devices shall remain in place for the safety of the public until the removal of
material and clean-up is completed.
   (E)   Upon completion by the permittee of all restoration work pertaining to
a street, sewer, electric, gas, fiber, cable or water excavation, cut or bore,
the permittee shall notify the Superintendent who shall inspect the site. The
said Superintendent determines the requirements or standards of the city for
restoration have been met, he shall approve the work and sign-off on the
project completion. The permittee shall take the signed permit to City Hall who
will refund the security deposit. Should the Superintendent determine the work
has not been completed as required, the security deposit will be used to
reimburse the city for repairs. If the cost of repairs exceeds the deposit the
permittee will be responsible for the actual cost of repairs.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be subject to
a fine not less than $250 plus court costs and not to exceed $750 plus court
costs together with any attorney fees incurred by the city. Each day a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(1975 Code, § 33.19)
(Ord. 23-01, passed 2-15-2023) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 OBSTRUCTING WORK IN STREET.
   Whenever any street, alley or public place is being improved under any
contract with the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure,
carry away, remove or interfere with any of the material or appliances used in
or about the work, or impede, obstruct or interfere with the execution of the
work or destroy or damage any of the work or materials which may have been
placed by the contractor.
(1975 Code, § 33.21) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 BARRIERS AND LIGHTS.
   Whoever digs or causes to be dug a ditch or excavation in or adjoining any
street, sidewalk or other public place, shall erect a suitable barrier about
such excavation and during the night, keep a sufficient number of red lights at
such excavation and the earth therefrom.
(1975 Code, § 33.22) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.20 LIGHTS ON MATERIAL IN STREET.
   Every object standing on a street, alley or public place within the city
shall have a lighted red light thereon at night, if it is an object other than
a vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 33.23) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.21 INTERFERENCE WITH BARRIERS AND LIGHTS.
   No person shall remove or interfere with any barrier, warning sign or light
placed in any street for the protection of the public.
(1975 Code, § 33.24) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.22 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO CITY FOR DAMAGE.
   If any person violates any provisions of this code, and any person or
property in consequence thereof is injured or damaged, the person so guilty of
such violation shall be liable to the city in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the city of such person for, any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the city for
such damages.
(1975 Code, § 33.25) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-1 through 5/11-80-23
§ 96.23 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No sidewalk shall be built above or below the established grade
of this city, and in all cases where no grade is established, any person
building a sidewalk shall build the same according to the instructions of the
Street Committee of the City Council.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person, company, partnership or
individual to build, lay or construct any sidewalk along any property in the
city, or along any of the streets, alleys or public highways thereon, without
first obtaining a permit from the City Council to do so.
   (C)   Street Committee. All such structures or improvements made in the city
shall be made under and through the cooperation and direction of the Street
Committee of the city, duly authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council
thereof.
   (D)   Request of new sidewalks. Any owner of property who desires new
sidewalks constructed upon city property adjoining his or her premises, and who
agrees to pay the cost of the material, the city shall provide the labor for
the construction of the sidewalks, and the applicant shall file a written
request with the City Clerk, giving the location of the property and the
dimensions of the sidewalks requested. Upon approval of the request by City
Council, and the payment of the costs of the materials, the city shall
construct the sidewalks.
(1975 Code, § 33.26) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.24 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Request in writing. Any person owning property within the city who
desires to have new curbs and gutters constructed along the street adjoining
his or her premises shall file a request with the City Clerk, giving the
location of the property and the length of the curb and gutters requested.
   (B)   Cost to owner. If the funds are available and the City Council
approves the request, the property owner shall pay one-half of the cost of the
construction and thereafter, the curb and gutter will be constructed by the
city. The cost of construction shall not include any engineering fees; these
shall be paid by the city.
   (C)   Approval by City Council. The approval of the request for construction
of curbs and gutters by the City Council shall be dependent upon the approval
of funds, priority of projects and continuity of construction for the best
benefit of the city as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Subdivisions. This is not applicable to new subdivisions.
(1975 Code, § 33.27) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.25 STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   Description of storm water sewers. Storm water sewers shall be any
pipe or sewer used for the carrying of surface drains, ground water, roof
leaders or storm waters, rain waters or other waters other than sanitary
sewage.
   (B)   Supervision. The Street Superintendent shall supervise all connections
made to the public storm sewer system or excavations for the purposes of
installing or repairing the same.
   (C)   Permits. Before any connection is made to the public storm water
sewers, a permit shall be applied for and approved by the Utility
Superintendent, or his or her designated representative.
   (D)   Requirements; use of storm water sewers. Where a storm water sewer is
accessible in a street, alley or easement to a building or premises abutting
thereon, the surface drains, ground waters, roof leaders or storm waters shall
be discharged into the storm water sewer unless otherwise authorized by the
city. Under no conditions shall sanitary sewage or wastes or any substance
other than surface waters, ground waters, roof waters or storm waters be
permitted to flow into or be connected to the storm water sewer; and no
sanitary sewer shall be connected to the storm water sewer system.
(1975 Code, § 33.28) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.26 ENCROACHMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect or
cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any encroachment within
the limits of the project right-of-way or roadway right-of-way where no project
right-of-way lines have been established.
   (B)   This section is intended to and shall be in addition to all other
ordinances, rules and regulations concerning encroachments and shall not be
construed as repealing or rescinding any other ordinance or part of any
ordinance unless in direct conflict therewith.
(Ord. 79-13, passed 11-21-1979) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.27 WATER AND SEWER COLLECTION SYSTEM.
   All streets, alleys, city-owned property, easements and other areas under
possession or control if not ownership, by the city, shall and may continue to
be used for distribution, construction, maintenance and any and all other
relevant and appurtenant purposes pertaining to the water system and sewage
collection system owned and operated by said city as well.
(Ord. 84-7, passed 9-5-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.28 STREET ADVERTISING BY MEANS OF A BILLBOARD.
   (A)   Generally. The recitals in Ord. 15-02 are incorporated herein by
reference as if appearing in total.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BILLBOARD. Any single- or double-faced street graphic that is permanently
fixed or placed on a particular premises and that is used for the display of
meetings or advertising not associated with the establishment located on said
premises. A BILLBOARD typically has provision for changing the message/
advertising thereon. BILLBOARDS do not include on-premises commercial or
political signage nor small commercial or non-commercial signs temporarily
place in residential lawns by residents, owners, contractors, realtors, or by
or on behalf of political candidates or issues.
   (C)   Permit. It shall be unlawful to construct or erect a billboard permit
from the corporate authorities of the city. Applications for such permits shall
be made in writing to the City Clerk. Each application shall state thereon the
name of the owner of the premises, the name of the person or corporation
constructing the billboard, and specifications showing the size, material and
manner of construction of the billboard. The fee for such a permit shall be
$20.
   (D)   Regulations. No billboard permit shall be issued by the corporate
authorities of the city unless the billboard meets the following conditions:
      (1)   Billboard may only be constructed or erected in areas zoned as not-
residential areas within the city.
      (2)   No billboard sign shall be located withing 1,000 feet of another
billboard abutting either side of the same street or highway.
      (3)   No advertising sign shall be located within 200 feet of a
residential zone and/or existing residence. If the advertising sign is
illuminated, this required distance shall be increased to 300 feet.
      (4)   No advertising sign shall be located closer than 20 feet from a
public right-of-way.
      (5)   The surface display area of any side of an advertising sign may not
exceed 400 square feet.
      (6)   If an advertising sign is illuminated, the illumination must be
concentrated on the surface of the sign and in a manner as to avoid glare or
reflection onto any portion of a street or highway, the path of on-coming
vehicles, or any adjacent premises, in no event shall any advertising sign have
flashing or intermittent lights, nor shall the lights be permitted to rotate or
oscillate.
      (7)   An advertising sign must be constructed in such a fashion that it
will withstand all wind and vibration forces which can normally be expected to
occur in the vicinity.
      (8)   An advertising sign must be maintained so as to assure proper
alignment of structure, continued structural soundness, and continued
readability of message.
      (9)   An advertising sign established within a business, commercial, or
industrial area, as defined in the highway Advertising Act of 1972 (1972 PA
106, as amended) bordering interstate highways, freeways or primary highways as
defined in said Act shall, in addition to complying with the above conditions,
also comply with all applicable provisions of the Act and the regulations
provided thereunder, as such may from time to time be amended.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 5-20-2015) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.29 PLACEMENT OF TRASH CONTAINERS.
   City residents shall be allowed to place their allocated trash container(s)
on the street adjacent to their residence no earlier than 24 hours prior to,
and removed no later than 24 hours after their scheduled trash collection day.
City residents shall store their allocated trash container(s) immediately next
to their dwelling or inside a garage, shed or other such building, when they
are not out for the scheduled trash collection.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 1-5-2022) Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Garbage disposal, see
Ch. 51
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
96.26 shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $100 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
96.29 shall be subject to a fine of $25 for each violation, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 79-13, passed 11-21-1979; Ord. 22-01, passed 1-5-2022)
CHAPTER 97: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
97.01   Open burning permitted with restrictions
   
97.02   Recreational fires
   
97.03   Restricted areas
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 OPEN BURNING PERMITTED WITH RESTRICTIONS.
   NATURAL YARD WASTE (leaves, lawn clippings, small limbs) may be burned
within the corporate limits of the city during daylight hours and ending at
dusk, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Only on the premises upon which the yard waste is generated or has
fallen;
   (B)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
   (C)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways;
   (D)   No burning shall be left unattended; fires must be supervised by an
adult;
   (E)   No burning shall occur on a city street;
   (F)   No burning shall occur within 25 feet of a residence or building;
   (G)   No waste such as garbage or agricultural waste shall be burned;
   (H)   No building materials shall be burned at any time, including sawed
lumber;
   (I)   No one shall burn at any time the wind velocity, to a prudent person,
is such as to cause the burning to be a hazard to life or property. A violation
of this division shall be presumed if atmospheric conditions allow contaminants
to be blown on the property of another, causing both damage to real property
and creating a nuisance to another person(s); and
   (J)   No one shall burn during periods of time when the Fire Chief or Chief
of Police has determined that winds or other atmospheric conditions are such
that burning would cause a hazard to life or property.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4-2019)
§ 97.02 RECREATIONAL FIRES.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES shall consist of the burning of fuels for a legitimate
campfire, recreational and cooking purposes, or in a domestic fireplace in
areas where it is consistent with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be
burned in such case. Recreational fires shall be subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Fire shall occur in a cleared open area, which shall be no less than a
20 foot radius;
   (B)   Fire shall be in an appliance designed for such burning, a burn pit
with an area not larger than a three feet by three feet, or an area surrounded
by noncombustible material; and
   (C)   No fires shall occur during periods of times when the Fire Chief or
Chief of Police has determined that winds or other atmospheric conditions,
including dry conditions, are such that fires would cause a hazard to life or
property.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4-2019)
§ 97.03 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   Pursuant to §
93.06, burning along the south side of Route 146, between the highway and the
back of buildings from Fourth to Fifth Streets in the city is prohibited.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to allow opening burning or
recreational fires otherwise prohibited in the area designated by §
93.06.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4-2019)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or business found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed $100. Subsequent violations by the same person
or business shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500. Each day the
violation continues by a person or business shall constitute a new and separate
offense.
(Ord. 19-07, passed 12-4-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   VARIOUS BUSINESSES
      
113.   FOOD VENDORS
      
114.   MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
      
115.   LIQUOR CODE
      
116.   CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Regulations applying to all licenses and permits
   
110.02   Person subject to license
   
110.03   Forms
   
110.04   Signatures
   
110.05   Investigations
   
110.06   Fees
   
110.07   Termination of licenses
   
110.08   Buildings and premises
   
110.09   Change of location
   
110.10   Frontage consents
   
110.11   Nuisances
   
110.12   Inspections
   
110.13   Revocation
   
110.14   Posting license
   
110.15   Application for a license
§ 110.01 REGULATIONS APPLYING TO ALL LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the City Clerk in the absence of provisions to the contrary.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of the
permit or license applied for.
(1975 Code, § 8.01)
§ 110.02 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever, in this code, a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or herself or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business, or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively;
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the city.
(1975 Code, § 8.02)
§ 110.03 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept in file by the City Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 8.03)
§ 110.04 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
City Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary.
(1975 Code, § 8.04)
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances
of the city necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of
such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The health officer shall
make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to such licenses in the
connection of the care and handling of food and preventing of nuisances and the
spread of disease, for the protection of health; the Building Inspector shall
make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the construction of
buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except where otherwise
provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other officer
designated by the Mayor.
(1975 Code, § 8.05)
§ 110.06 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of part of the current license year, the license fee
shall be prorated in quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction
thereof during which the business has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund.
(1975 Code, § 8.06)
§ 110.07 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the city where they are issued, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the city a statement of
the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, three
weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided, that a failure to send
out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor
shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a license.
(1975 Code, § 8.07)
§ 110.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the city. No such
license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Code of
the city.
(1975 Code, § 8.08)
§ 110.09 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed, provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to the City
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided that the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the code are complied
with.
(1975 Code, § 8.09)
§ 110.10 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as
a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
City Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed, shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by code.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code, shall not be
construed to amend or change any Zoning Code provision of the city; and no such
provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning code of the city.
(1975 Code, § 8.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(1975 Code, § 8.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality whose
business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the city requesting the same, sufficient samples of such material
or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
city who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is authorized to
make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection, or take an
adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such inspection;
provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand
is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises, in the name of
the city, stating that such inspection or sample is desired at the time it is
sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
(1975 Code, § 8.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.13 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor at any
time during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of the code provisions relating to the license or permit,
the subject mater of the license or permit, or to the premises occupied; such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1975 Code, § 8.14)
§ 110.14 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
city to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(1975 Code, § 8.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
See next page.
§ 110.15 APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE.
   The undersigned hereby applies for a license to conduct the business of
_____________ in the City of Vienna and states that the following facts are
true:
   (1)   Name under which business is to be conducted:
   (2)   Name of applicant. ______________________________ (If a corporation,
give names and addresses of president and secretary; if a partnership, give
names and addresses of all parties): _______________________
   (3)   Present residence _____________________
   (4)   Address of business to be conducted __________________________
   (5)   Nature of business _________________________________
   (6)   Residence of applicant during past five years (if individual)
_______________________
   (7)   The applicant has never had a license to conduct the business herein
described denied or revoked, excepting as noted:
________________________________
   (8)   The applicant (including all partners or the officers; if a
corporation) has never been convicted of a felony
__________________________________________
   The undersigned makes these statements above to induce the City of Vienna to
issue the license herein applied for, and agrees to comply with all laws and
codes of the city, applicable to the subject matter thereof.
   Signed this ___________ day of ________, 20____.
            (If applicant is a corporation show office held by person signing)
   License period from _____________ to __________________.
(1975 Code, § 8.16)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
Section
Solicitors
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Certificate of registration
   
111.03   Application for certificate of registration
   
111.04   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
111.05   Duty of solicitors
   
111.06   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
111.07   Time limit on soliciting
   
111.08   Fees
Peddlers
   
111.20   License required
   
111.21   Definition
   
111.22   Application
   
111.23   Investigation of applicants
   
111.24   Exclusions
   
111.25   Fees
   
111.26   Hours
   
111.27   Fraud
   
111.28   Prohibited peddling
 
   
111.99   Penalty
SOLICITORS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Includes every separate living unit occupied for residential
purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building or
structure.
   SOLICITING. Includes any one or more of the following activities;
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for the application or
purchase of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type of publication; or
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or non-profit
association, organization, corporation or project.
(1975 Code, § 8.18)
§ 111.02 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
in residences within this municipality, is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided.
(1975 Code, § 8.19)
§ 111.03 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief.
   (B)   The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application; to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also Social Security number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years, if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for a certificate under this code, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this subchapter ever been revoked;
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this subchapter or the code of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the
United States; and
      (13)   Such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (C)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in this office an accurate
record of every application received and acted upon together with all other
information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration
issued under the provisions of this subchapter, and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (E)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state or any
other state or federal law of the United States, within five years of the date
of the application, nor to any person who has been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this subchapter, nor to any person whose certificate
of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked as herein
provided.
(1975 Code, § 8.20)
§ 111.04 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, and that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the
applicant would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this
subchapter. Endorsement shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the
application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found to be
fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this
subchapter. Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be
given by the Chief of Police to the holder of the certificate in person, or by
certified U.S. mail, addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the
application.
   (C)   Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become null and void.
   (D)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(1975 Code, § 8.22)
§ 111.05 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or
not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested
to do so by the occupant.
(1975 Code, § 8.23)
§ 111.06 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined, in defiance of a
notice exhibited at the residence stating in clear and concise wordage that
soliciting is not invited.
(1975 Code, § 8.24) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person whether registered under this subchapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof, and engage in soliciting as
herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday, or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1975 Code, § 8.25) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall beas set forth in §
111.25.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-5-2
PEDDLERS
§ 111.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(1975 Code, § 8.27) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 DEFINITION.
   PEDDLE shall mean the selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for
sale, barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways or public places of the city, or from house to house, whether
at one place thereon or from place to place, from any wagon, truck, push-cart
or other vehicle or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall not include
the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items along delivery
routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller to stop and
exhibit his or her items, nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the solicitation
of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time the order is
taken.
(1975 Code, § 8.28)
§ 111.22 APPLICATION.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the City Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant’s criminal record, other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three cities or municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application, and the address from
which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1975 Code, § 8.29)
§ 111.23 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then
it shall be denied.
(1975 Code, § 8.31)
§ 111.24 EXCLUSIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the sale, or soliciting
of orders for the sale of milk, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, eggs and
other farm and garden produce, so far as the sale of the commodities named
herein is now authorized by law.
(1975 Code, § 8.32)
§ 111.25 FEES.
   The fee for a license issued under this subchapter shall be $5 per person
per day, or an annual fee of $50 per person. Charitable, religious, educational
or not-for-profit organizations shall register, but do not have to pay a fee.
(1975 Code, § 8.33) (Ord. 83-8, passed 9-7-1983)
§ 111.26 HOURS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether register under this code or not, to go upon any premises and
ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or rap
or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting or
peddling as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any
weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a Saturday or national holiday.
(1975 Code, § 8.34) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 FRAUD.
   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an employee
while acting as a peddler in the city, or who shall barter, sell or peddle any
goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or her
application for a license shall be fined in accordance with §
111.99.
(1975 Code, § 8.35) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 PROHIBITED PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, firm, partnership or
corporation to sell, distribute, deliver and peddle wares, merchandise,
commodities, goods and agricultural products and foods from any vehicle at any
point on Main Street, and at any point around the public square, and within one
block in any direction from the nearest point of the public square in the city.
(1975 Code, § 8.36) (Ord. 350, passed 6-23-1965) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud,
cheating or misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an
employee while acting as a peddler in the city, or who shall barter, sell or
peddle any goods or merchandise or wares other than those specified in his or
her application for a license (as in §
111.27) shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200 for each offense;
and the Mayor may revoke his or her license for such an offense.
(1975 Code, § 8.35)
CHAPTER 112: VARIOUS BUSINESSES
Section
Automatic Amusement Devices
   
112.01   Devices to be kept in plain view; gambling devices
   
112.02   Inspection
   
112.03   Revocation
   
112.04   Applicant not owner
Bowling Alleys
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Fee
AUTOMATIC AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01 DEVICES TO BE KEPT IN PLAIN VIEW; GAMBLING DEVICES.
   (A)   All such devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view
of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business where
such devices are kept or used.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(1975 Code, § 8.43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall inspect or cause to be inspected any place or
building in which any such device or devices are operated or set up for
operation and to inspect, investigate and test such devices, at least twice
each month.
(1975 Code, § 8.44)
§ 112.03 REVOCATION.
   In addition to any penalty imposed, the Mayor or Council may revoke such
license for any violation of this subchapter, or of any ordinance pertaining to
the conduct of such business.
(1975 Code, § 8.45)
§ 112.04 APPLICANT NOT OWNER.
   If the applicant for said license is not the owner, then the owner’s name
shall be included on the application and license forms by the applicant.
(1975 Code, § 8.46)
BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 112.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or maintain a bowling alley,
open to the public, without having first secured a license therefor as is
herein required. Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and
shall be in writing, and state thereon the intended location of the place of
business and the number of alleys to be used.
(1975 Code, § 8.56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 FEE.
   The annual fee for such licenses shall be $10 for each bowling lane.
(1975 Code, § 8.57)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD VENDORS
Section
   
113.01   Definition
   
113.02   Vendor’s license required
   
113.03   Vendor licenses
   
113.04   Public health and sanitation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VENDOR. A person or business that sells, serves, offers for sale or gives
away prepared food from any motorized or non-motorized vehicle, trailer, kiosk,
push-cart, stand or other portable device.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-5-2011)
§ 113.02 VENDOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No vendor, unless located and operating at a festival or special event
held within the city limits, shall sell or offer to sell to the public prepared
foods that may be consumed either on or off of the vendor’s premises, without
first applying for and obtaining a local license from the city.
   (B)   In order to receive a city vendor’s license, an applicant must provide
the following to the city:
      (1)   A $300 license fee, which must be paid every year the business is
in operation;
      (2)   The permanent address of the owner of the vending establishment;
      (3)   The proposed address for the location of the business
establishment;
      (4)   A sales tax identification number;
      (5)   Adequate proof of public liability insurance;
      (6)   A copy of the public liability insurance must accompany the
application for license and each renewal application; and
      (7)   Any other pertinent information that the city may find to be
reasonably necessary for the acquisition of a vendor’s license.
   (C)   A separate license is required for each separate vending location,
even if owned by the same person, firm or corporation.
   (D)   The license fee set forth in this chapter is non-refundable and shall
be due and payable along with the vendor’s initial license application or
renewal. The license fee shall be prorated to the date that vendor applies for
a vendor’s license.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-5-2011)
§ 113.03 VENDOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The number of vendor’s licenses that may be issued by the city shall
not exceed five, and are non-transferable.
   (B)   Any vendors doing business within the city at the time this chapter is
adopted shall be given priority in obtaining a license over any vendor not
operating within the city at the time this chapter is adopted.
   (C)   Any vendor that applies for and receives a vendor’s license shall be
given the opportunity to renew said license by submitting a renewal
application, and the license fee to the city during the month of December. If a
vendor fails to renew its vendor’s license by January 1, then said license
shall have expired and is then available to be issued to any other applicant
for a vendor’s license.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-5-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION.
   For the protection and promotion of public health and sanitation in the
city, all vendors must meet the following requirements.
   (A)   The vendor must have a valid permit from the State Department of
Public Health.
   (B)   A copy of the State Department of Public Health must be furnished when
the vendor’s license is renewed.
   (C)   A copy of the State Department of Public Health permit must be
prominently displayed by the vendor so that it may be viewed by all possible
customers of the vending establishment.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-5-2011) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation operating as a vendor within the city
without a license shall be fined $500 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 1-5-2011)
CHAPTER 114: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
Section
   
114.01   Recitals
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
114.04   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
114.05   Collection, enforcement and administration of fees
   
114.06   Enforcement
   
114.07   Waiver and fee implementation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to this chapter are found
to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever.
      (2)   In case credit is extended, the amount thereof shall be included
only as and when paid GROSS CHARGES for private line service shall include
charges imposed at each channel point within the city, charges for the channel
mileage between each channel point within the city, and charges for that
portion of the interstate inter-office channel provided within the city.
      (3)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under: the fee imposed by this section; additional charges added to a
purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220
ILCS 5/9-221 or 9-222; amounts collected under § 8-11-17 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17; the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.; 911 surcharges;
or the tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. §
4251;
         (b)   Charges for sent collect telecommunications received outside the
city;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, date processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are dis-
aggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the city;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
         (g)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the city.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the city has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal city property that
is not specifically described in the previous sentence, and shall not include
city buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they
are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Or any like term,
means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the charge
made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater than
the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not for
sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the
customer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELE-COMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of inter-company facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable services through a cable system as defined in
the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq.) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the city through an open video system as defined in
the Rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 et
seq.) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.  
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The city may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the city, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the
fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the fee
upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the city.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services, and paging services.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998)
§ 114.03 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by this chapter shall
register with the city within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter
or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a form to be
provided by the city, provided, however, that any telecommunications retailer
that has filed a return pursuant to §
114.05(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the city
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
114.05(C), as the case may be, to the city within 30 days from the date of the
occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the telecommunications
provider in the registration form or most recent return on file with the city.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 0.75% of all
gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses
within the city for telecommunications originating or received in the city.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this section, the city infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all public
rights-of-way within the city by telecommunications retailers. Imposition of
the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this section does not,
however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or imposition of any
fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set forth in §
114.05.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in amount equal to the city infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the City Administrator, the
infrastructure maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications
retailer to the city not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the
month in which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the city
infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for expenses
incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the city shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the City Administrator,
which shall contain such information as the City Administrator may reasonably
require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this section and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer of the city. The charge imposed under division (A)
above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this section shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the City Administrator may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit; however, no claim for such credit maybe made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: the credit is used only to off
set a claim of underpayment made by the city within the applicable statutory
period of limitations; and the credit derives from an overpayment made by the
same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below: for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or
other compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998)
§ 114.07 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The city hereby waives all fees, charges and other compensation that
may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the city by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing city franchise, license or
similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the city
imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This waiver
shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance fee
provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall send notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer whom the city has
a franchise.
   (C)   The city infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
90 days after the city provides written notice by certified mail to each
telecommunications retailer with whom the city has an existing franchise,
license or similar agreement that the city waives all compensation under such
existing franchise, license or similar agreement during such time as the fee is
subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the retailer and remitted to
the city. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in the preceding sentence.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the city municipal
code.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 11-18-1998)
CHAPTER 115: LIQUOR CODE
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Licenses
   
115.03   Application for license
   
115.04   List of licenses
   
115.05   Issuance of license
   
115.06   Display of license
   
115.07   Prohibited licensees
   
115.08   Prohibited consumption and possession of alcohol
   
115.09   Classification of licenses
   
115.10   Limitation of licenses
   
115.11   Term of license; disposition of fees
   
115.12   Transfer of license
   
115.13   Revocation of licenses
   
115.14   Hours
   
115.15   Restricted residential areas
   
115.16   Prohibited locations
   
115.17   Change of location
   
115.18   Open view into interior
   
115.19   Unlawful entertainment
   
115.20   Elections
   
115.21   Peddling
   
115.22   Sanitary conditions
   
115.23   Employees
   
115.24   Gambling
   
115.25   Disorderly house
   
115.26   Minor selling liquor
   
115.27   Prohibited sales; generally
   
115.28   Unlawful purchase or consumption of liquor
   
115.29   Posting warning
   
115.30   Identification required
   
115.31   Exclusionary provision
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquids, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor
to any liquid or solid containing 0.5%, or less of alcohol by volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE OF RETAIL. Any mean sales for use or consumption and
not for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spiritous liquors, and such liquors, when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits, or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.02 LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or expose for sale, any
alcoholic liquor, as defined in §
115.01 within the city without having a license from the city therefor.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Applications for a retail liquor license shall be made to the City
Clerk in writing in form to be furnished by the City Clerk to the applicant.
The application may be made by an individual or by a duly authorized agent.
   (B)   If made by a club or corporation, the application must be verified by
oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following information and statement:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual, and in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the names and addresses of the officers and
directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of such corporation, or
club is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the name and address of such
person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its Charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application;
      (7)   The applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this code or resolution, and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license, having been issued to the applicant by
any state or subdivision thereof, or by the federal government, has been
revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
      (9)   He or she will not violate any of the laws of the state, or of the
United States, or any of the provisions of this code or resolution and
amendments thereto, in the conduct of his or her place of business.
   (C)   In case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
as to the president and secretary of the corporation with the location of the
principal office of the corporation.
   (D)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two members of such partnership, firm, association or club, or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
   (E)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, one copy given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of
Police shall endorse on the copies his or her approval or disapproval of the
application, and may make further comments regarding that application. The
copies shall be returned to the Local Liquor Commissioner and the endorsement
and comment of the Chief of Police shall be considered by him or her as an aid
in deciding whether the license should be issued or refused.
   (F)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine,
or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license, or for
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served, and to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records
of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof for his or
her information in the performance of his or her duties, and for such purpose,
to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any party of this state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize his or her agent to
act on his or her behalf.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.04 LIST OF LICENSES.
   The Mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him or her, and shall furnish the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief
of Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any new license, or
the revocation of any old license, the Mayor shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within 48 hours of such action.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon the application being prepared and executed by the applicant, the same
shall be submitted to the Mayor for approval. The Mayor may withhold action on
the application for 15 days for investigation of the application file before
finally taking action thereon. Any license which shall be approved by the Mayor
shall thereafter be submitted to the City Council for approval, and the City
Clerk shall not issue a license unless the application has also been approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.06 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.07 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   No retail license shall be issued by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this act has been revoked for
cause;
   (G)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon the first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder(s) owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock of such
corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the city;
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or
shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for
any such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own any premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (M)   No law-enforcing public official, Mayor or Alderman, or member of the
City Council shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in
the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor; or
   (N)   Any person who is not a resident of the city.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.08 PROHIBITED CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOL.
   The City Council does hereby prohibit the consumption and possession of
alcoholic beverages on the City Square premises, said premises including the
west one-half of Fifth Street for its intersection with Vine Street (otherwise
known as Route 146) thence south to Locust Street and the south one-half of
that part of Court Street that is adjacent to the County Courthouse and the
east one-half of that part of Fourth Street beginning at the Fourth Street’s
intersection with Locust Street; thence north to the intersection of Fourth
Street and Vine Street (otherwise known as Route 146) and the north one-half of
that part of Court Street that is adjacent to the County Courthouse, said City
Square premises also to include all appurtenant sidewalks and walkways.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES.
   There shall be eight classes of license that shall be referred to as:
   (A)   Class A licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well as other
retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,000;
   (B)   Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor,
but not for consumption on the premises where sold. The annual license fee
shall be $1,000;
   (C)   Class C licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of beer and/or wine only for consumption on the premises where sold.
The annual fee for such license shall be $1,000;
   (D)   Class D licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on specified premises, where the
premises is a restaurant with at least 50% of its gross revenue deriving from
the sale of food. The annual fee for such license shall be $1,000;
   (E)   Class E licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of beer only, not for consumption on the premises where sold. The
annual license fee shall be $1,000;
   (F)   Class F licenses shall authorize the retail sale from the premises
specified of wine for sampling or tasting, or by the glass, or by the bottle
for consumption, on or off the premises where sold; in addition, this license
shall authorize the sale of beer by the glass, and/or by the bottle for
consumption, on premises only, not for packaged sale. The annual license fee
shall be $1,000;
   (G)   Class G licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, as well as other
retail sales of such liquor; in addition, this license shall authorize the
retail sale on the grounds of any golf course specified of alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the said golf course. The annual fee for such license shall be
$1,000; and
   (H)   Class H licenses shall authorize the retail sale on the premises
specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises, as well as other
retail sales of such liquor. This license shall be issued to not-for-profit
organizations which desire to keep any place selling or offering the sale, or
in any manner dealing in alcoholic liquors. The annual fee for such license
shall be $50, subject to the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 10-16, passed 12-1-2010)
§ 115.10 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   The number of Class A liquor licenses that may be issued by the city shall
not exceed ten. The number of Class B liquor licenses that may be issued by the
city shall not exceed four. The number of Class C licenses that may be issued
shall be three. The number of Class D licenses that may be issued shall be
four. The number of Class E licenses that may be issued shall be three. The
number of Class F licenses that may be issued shall be two. The number of Class
G licenses that may be issued shall be one. There is no limit on the number of
Class H licenses that may be issued by the city.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 10-16, passed 12-1-2010; Ord. 22-02, passed
1-19-2022)
§ 115.11 TERM OF LICENSE; DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)   Retail liquor licenses issued under this code shall be valid for one-
year periods on the payment of the license fee as herein set forth, unless
sooner revoked or suspended. The 12-month periods shall be from July 1 of
current year to June 30 of the following year. The annual license fee for each
year shall be payable in advance by the applicant for a license at the time the
application for a license is submitted to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
as hereinbefore provided. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to
the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance
of the license. In the event the license is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant. The fee shall be deposited with the City Treasurer,
who shall deposit the fees in the City General Fund. The application for a
license shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted, and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.12 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, valid for a period of
time not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner revoked, as in this
code provided; and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee,
provided that executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise
the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the
expiration of such license, but not longer than six months after the death,
bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made for that
portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be
prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the provisions
of this division (A).
   (B)   The licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal licence is sought are suitable for such purposes; provided
that the renewal privilege herein provided shall not be construed as a vested
right, and may be denied by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.13 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this code.
   (A)   In addition to and not limited by the specific penalties above set out
for violations of specific articles of this code, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may suspend for 30 days, or revoke any liquor license issued under
this code, pursuant to any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic
liquors by any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee.
   (B)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any liquor
license if the licensee makes any false statement or misrepresentation in the
application for a license.
   (C)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may enter or authorize any law
enforcing officer to enter at any time upon any licensed premises to determine
whether any of the provisions of this code or the laws of the state pertaining
to the sale of alcoholic liquor have been or are being violated at such time to
examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
   (D)   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Mayor, stating that any licensee under this code has been or
is violating the provision of this code, or any amendments thereto, or any of
the statutes of the state, exacted with reference to the control of liquor.
Such complaint shall be in writing and shall be signed and sworn to by the
parties complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule
or regulation believed to have been violated, and the facts in detail upon
which such belief is based. If the Mayor is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged, there is
reasonable cause for such belief, the matter shall be set for hearing, and the
Mayor shall service notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing, and of the particular charges in the complaint.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.14 HOURS.
   (A)   A retail liquor license shall entitle the license to sell at retail,
alcoholic liquor and beverages, and to operate and keep open for an 18-hour
period of time beginning at 6:00 a.m. through 12:00 a.m. on any day of the week
other than, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. On Friday and Saturday of each week,
the licensee may sell at retail, alcoholic liquor and beverages and operate for
a 20-hour period of time beginning at 6:00 a.m. through 2:00 a.m. the following
day. On Sunday of each week, the licensee may sell at retail, alcoholic liquor
and beverages for a 12-hour period of time beginning at 12:00 p.m. through 12:
00 a.m. On New Year’s Eve, a retail liquor licensee may sell at retail,
alcoholic liquor and beverages and may operate for a 20-hour period of time
beginning at 6:00 a.m. through 2:00 a.m. the following day regardless of the
day of the week.
   (B)   A Class G license shall entitle the licensee to sell at retail
alcoholic liquor and beverages to operate and keep open for a 20-hour period of
time, beginning at 6:00 a.m. through 2:00 a.m., on any day of the week, other
than Sunday. On Sunday of each week, the licensee may sell at retail alcoholic
liquor and beverages for a 12-hour period of time, beginning at 12:00 p.m. and
12:00 a.m.
   (C)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold and all licensed premises must
remain closed at all other times, other than those above specified. Any holder
of a retail liquor license or his or her agent or employee who violates the
provisions of this code in regulating the legal hours of operation shall, upon
conviction of the first offense, be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$500, and for the second offense, be fined not more than $500, and suffer the
revocation of such retail liquor license.
   (D)   The times referred to above shall mean Daylight Savings Time when the
same is in effect in the city, and upon cessation of Daylight Savings Time,
shall mean Central Standard Time.
   (E)   A restaurant may be kept open after these hours, but no alcoholic
liquor may be sold or consumed by the public.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010; Ord. 16-08, passed 7-6-2016)
§ 115.15 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within any
residential district of the city, unless the owner or owners of at least two-
thirds of the frontage feet along the street and streets adjacent to such place
of business for which a license is sought, for a distance of 200 feet in each
direction for such proposed place of business shall file with the Mayor his or
her or their written consent to the use of such place for the sale of alcoholic
liquors.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their wives or children or any military or naval
station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants or food shops,
as defined in the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly, or other places where
the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the taking effect of this code. No person shall hereafter engage in
business as a retailer of any alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any
undertaking establishment or mortuary.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.17 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this state and the code of this city.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.18 OPEN VIEW INTO INTERIOR.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant, hotel or club, as
defined in the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly, other than one situated
on the first, or ground floor) no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor arrangement of
lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of the premises
from the street, road or sidewalk and said premises must be so located so that
there shall be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk.
   (B)   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white lights so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   (C)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provision shall be willfully obscured by the licensee, or by him or
her willfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
   (D)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him or her
of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view, as above
required.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.19 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT.
   No licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee shall permit or allow any
lewd of lascivious act, or any topless and/or bottomless female employee and/or
employees ( TOPLESS being defined as naked and substantially without clothing
or covering of the body from the waist to the neckline, and BOTTOMLESS being
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist downward) or entertainment to be performed within the licensed
premises by an entertainer employed therein, or by any employee or guest; nor
shall any licensee, his or her agent, servant or employee permit or allow any
employee or guest, or any other person whoever to solicit or encourage the
purchasing of alcoholic liquor or beverage of any description or the giving of
any gratuity or gift by any patron, or guest to or for the benefit of any such
employee or guest.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.20 ELECTIONS.
   A person may sell at retail any alcoholic liquor on the day of any national,
state, county or city election, including primary elections, during the hours
the polls are open.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.21 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.22 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.23 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be unlawful for any
person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.24 GAMBLING.
   It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device or
instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place where alcoholic
liquor is sold or given away, unless permitted by state statute.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.25 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   A person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer any disorder,
drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or disorderly
conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for the sale of
liquor.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26 MINOR SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to attend any bar or to draw, pour or mix
any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.27 PROHIBITED SALES; GENERALLY.
   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known by him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of medical treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.28 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OR CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR.
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor, or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession. No person under
the age of 21 years may consume alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.29 POSTING WARNING.
   (A)   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall
be displayed at all times in a prominent place, a printed card, which shall be
supplied by the City Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
      YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $2,500 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
OF VIENNA IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR, OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s
license, or his or her agent, or employee to suffer or permit any minor to be
or remain in any room and compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in
the room or place where such licensed premises is located; provided, that this
division (B) shall not apply to any minor who is accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian, or any licensed premises which derives its principal
business from the sale of services or other commodities other than alcoholic
liquor.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.30 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason to
believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because
of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive identification,
containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his
or her official duties.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.31 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor
in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a
minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent of
such in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provisions of §
115.19 shall be fined not more than $200, or suffer the revocation of the
retail liquor license for such licensed premises, or both such fine and
revocation.
   (C)   Any person in violation of §
115.27 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
   (D)   Any person in violation of §
115.28 may be fined in an amount not to exceed $2,500.
(Ord. 10-03, passed 4-7-2010)
CHAPTER 116: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
116.03   Public nuisance declared
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this chapter,
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to cultivate, dry,
cure and package cannabis, and to perform other necessary activities to make
cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or use at a processing
organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation  and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et
seq.), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business licensed by the Illinois Department of Financial and
Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed cannabis business
establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing cannabis, cannabis-
infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related supplies to
purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and caregivers,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION or INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture
to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a product
formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR.  A facility
operated by an organization or business licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to transport
cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a community college
licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.), as
it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 116.02 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the city. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the city, any of the following:
adult-use cannabis craft grower; adult-use cannabis cultivation center; adult-
use cannabis dispensing organization; adult-use cannabis infuser organization
or infuser; adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; adult-use
cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-20-2019)
§ 116.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the city
in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance, and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-20-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 94
§ 116.99 PENALTY. 
   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the provisions
of §
10.99.
(Ord. 19-06, passed 11-20-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Disturbing church services
   
130.03   Disturbing assemblies
   
130.04   Intoxication in public
   
130.05   Disturbing the peace
   
130.06   Begging
   
130.07   Games in streets
   
130.08   Discharging firearms in city; exception
   
130.09   Blasting in city
   
130.10   Storage of explosives
   
130.11   Throwing rocks and the like
   
130.12   Destruction of public property
   
130.13   Nudity in public place
   
130.14   Discarded refrigerators
   
130.15   Fireworks regulations
   
130.16   Battery
   
130.17   Criminal damage to firefighting apparatus, hydrants or equipment
   
130.18   Criminal trespass to land
   
130.19   Mob action
   
130.20   Disorderly conduct
   
130.21   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer
   
130.22   Refusing to aid an officer
   
130.23   Trespass prohibited
   
130.24   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression
   
130.25   Loitering
   
130.26   Possession of alcoholic beverages on city square
   
130.27   Removal of and protection from animal excrement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Towing and impounding vehicles involved in a crime, see §
70.09
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the words and phrases of the 720 ILCS 5/2-
1 through 2-11, 720 ILCS 5/2-13 through 2-16 and 720 ILCS 5/2-19 and 2-20, as
approved, adopted and amended, are hereby adopted by the city, as fully as if
set out herein.
(1975 Code, § 27.01)
§ 130.02 DISTURBING CHURCH SERVICES.
   No person shall, in this city, disturb or disquiet any congregation or
assembly met for religious worship, by making any noise, or by rude and
indecent behavior, or by profane or obscene discourse, or in any other manner,
within or near their place of worship.
(1975 Code, § 27.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES.
   No person shall, in the city, disturb any school or any other lawful
assembly of people, or any funeral assembly or procession, by rude or indecent
behavior, or otherwise.
(1975 Code, § 27.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the city, be found in a state of intoxication, or drunk,
in any street, or other public place, or shall be found drunk lying or roving
about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this city, or the private grounds of
any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as aforesaid, shall disturb the
peace, order and quiet of the city, or the peace and quiet of the citizens
thereof, by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent language or
behavior, or in any other manner.
(1975 Code, § 27.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No person shall disturb the good order of society, or the peace of any
person or family, or of any congregation within the city, by any noise or
amusement, or by any disorderly or immoral conduct.
(1975 Code, § 27.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the city, without having obtained
permission in writing from the Mayor.
(1975 Code, § 27.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall, on any city street, fly any kite or play any game of ball
or engage in any amusement, or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy
any person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(1975 Code, § 27.07) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 DISCHARGING FIREARMS IN CITY; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall, within the city, fire or discharge any firearms or air gun
without the written permission from the Mayor first obtained, which permission
shall prescribe the limits within which such firing may be done, and may be
revoked at any time after it has been granted. A registered gun club shall be
excluded from the provisions of this section, but limited to the club grounds.
(1975 Code, § 27.10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 BLASTING IN CITY.
   No person shall, by himself or herself or his or her agent or employee, fire
off any blast, unless the blast is properly guarded so as to prevent accident
to person or property, or open any stone quarry within the city, without
permission from the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 27.11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine, dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store, at or in any place within the city, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them,
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder, or any gun or explosive cotton, at or in any one
place in the city in any quantity exceeding five pounds, except a dealer
thereof, or quarryman of rock, or miner, who may keep 25 pounds at any one
time.
(1975 Code, § 27.12) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/5-11-8-4
§ 130.11 THROWING ROCKS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, in the city, throw or cast any stone or any other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or at any
person in any street, alley or public place.
(1975 Code, § 27.13) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deface, destroy or in any way, injure any public property,
or any other apparatus of the city.
(1975 Code, § 27.14) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 NUDITY IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall in the city, appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, or in an indecent or lewd dress, or shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person, or be guilty of any indecent or lewd act, or behavior.
(1975 Code, § 27.15) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside any dwelling, building or other structure or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or her
or its control in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or other container, which has an air-tight door
or lid, snap lock or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside without first removing the door or lid, snap lock or other device from
the ice box, refrigerator or container.
(1975 Code, § 27.18) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any explosive
composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared
for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary
exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation and
shall include blank cartridges, and toy cannons, in which explosives are used;
the type of balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same;
firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, sparklers, bombs or other
fireworks of like construction and any tablets or other device containing any
explosive substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy
pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing 25 hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are used,
providing they are so constructed that the hand cannot come, in contact with
the cap when in place for the explosion, and the toy pistol, paper or plastic
caps which contain less than 25 hundredths grains of explosive mixture,
excluding re-coverage model rockets, sold for the express use of modelers, and/
or exhibitions of rocketry, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all
times.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks within the city limits.
   (C)   Permits. The Police Chief will authorize the City Clerk to grant
permits for the supervised public display of fireworks. No permit granted
hereunder, shall be transferable. Permits may be granted hereunder to any group
of three or more adult individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be
required for supervised public displays by State or County Fair Associations.
   (D)   Applications. Application for permits shall be made in writing at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken
on such application within 48 hours after such application is made.
   (E)   Display. Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual
designated by the Police Chief and shall be of such character and so located,
discharged or fired, as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons.
   (F)   Fee. There shall be a charge of $10 for the issuance of a permit.
(1975 Code, § 27.19) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 BATTERY.
   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly without
legal justification, and by any means causes bodily harm to an individual, or
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(1975 Code, § 27.20) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO FIREFIGHTING APPARATUS, HYDRANTS OR EQUIPMENT.
   Whoever willfully and maliciously cuts, injures, damages, tampers with or
destroys, or defaces any fire hydrant or any fire hose or any fire engine, or
other public or private firefighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining
to such equipment, or intentionally opens any fire hydrant without proper
authorization, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1975 Code, § 27.21) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof of another, after
receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant
that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, commits a misdemeanor.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) above if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or
the forbidden part thereon.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of, or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement, or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by such migrant worker or other person living on such land to visit him
or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
(1975 Code, § 27.22) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 MOB ACTION.
   Mob action consists of any of the following:
   (A)   The use of force or violence disturbing the public peace by two or
more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   (B)   The assembly of two or more persons to do an unlawful act;
   (C)   The assembly of two or more persons without authority of law, for the
purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed to have
been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence; or
   (D)   Any participant in a mob action who does not withdraw on being
commanded to do so by any peace officer, commits a misdemeanor.
(1975 Code, § 27.23) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of the city, a false
alarm of fire, knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no
reasonable ground for believing that such fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would, endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(1975 Code, § 27.26) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER.
   A person who knowingly resists or obstructs the performance by one known to
the person to be a peace officer of any authorized act within his or her
official capacity commits a misdemeanor.
(1975 Code, § 27.27) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever, upon command, refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense, commits a
misdemeanor.
(1975 Code, § 27.28) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 TRESPASS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to commit a
trespass within this municipality upon either public or private property.
(1975 Code, § 27.29) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED TRESPASSES; SUPPRESSION.
   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of §
130.23, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation, shall be
deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the
provisions of §
130.23 and appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time
to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this code, the
aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
   (A)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof of another, including
any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner, or
occupant thereof;
   (B)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
   (C)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
   (D)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made without
the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1975 Code, § 27.32)
§ 130.25 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON CITY SQUARE.
   The City Council does hereby prohibit the consumption and possession of
alcoholic beverages on the city square premises, said premises including the
west one-half (W1/2) of Fifth Street from its intersection with Vine Street
(otherwise known as Route #146); thence south to Locust Street and the south
one-half (S1/2) of that part of Court Street that is adjacent to the County
Courthouse and the east one-half of that part of Fourth Street beginning at
Fourth Street’s intersection with Locust Street; thence north to the
intersection of Fourth Street and Vine Street (otherwise known as Route #146)
and the north one-half (N1/2) of that part of Court Street that is adjacent to
the County Courthouse, said city square premises also to include all
appurtenant sidewalks and walkways.
(Ord. 86-5, passed 9-17-1986)
§ 130.27 REMOVAL OF AND PROTECTION FROM ANIMAL EXCREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall allow an animal under his or her control to be upon
public property within the city, including streets and sidewalks, or upon the
property of another, absent the consent of the owner or occupant of the
property, without some device for the removal and containment of the animal's
excrement; nor shall any person fail to remove any excrement deposited by any
dog under his or her control on public or private property. This section shall
not apply to service animals under the control of a blind person.
   (B)   A properly fitted collection device shall be securely in place on all
horses or other large animals while such animals are on the street within the
city limits.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a violation
and shall be fined $50 for each offense.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 5-3-2017)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in an amount not
exceeding $500.
(1975 Code, § 27.33)
   (B)   The City Council does hereby establish that the penalty for any
violation of §
130.26 shall be a fine in an amount no less than $50 not to exceed $500.
(1975 Code, § 27.36)
(Ord. 86-5, passed 9-17-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of current addressing system
   
150.02   Authority
   
150.03   Consideration and adoption
   
150.04   Placement of numbers
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF CURRENT ADDRESSING SYSTEM.
   (A)   The addressing system currently in existence for those buildings, lots
and occupied structures adjacent to any street, lane or highway shall remain in
effect where feasible and in accordance with the County Emergency Telephone
System.
   (B)   In any case where a discrepancy exists and in all cases where the
discrepancy poses a risk to the effective and efficient public services such as
police, fire and/or emergency medical services, the County 911 Coordinator will
confer with the City Clerk and Street Superintendent to rectify the discrepancy
as soon as possible.
   (C)   The city retains all authority for street naming and changing street
names as pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-80-19.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY.
   The County 911 Coordinator shall suggest to the City Council the assignment
of addresses for any building or lots adjacent to any street, lane or highway
in the corporate areas of the city, including those that have not been
numbered, pursuant to the following.
   (A)   All numbers for buildings, lots or occupied structures adjacent to any
street, lane or highway within the city limits shall be made in uniform manner
mutually agreed upon by the County Emergency Telephone System Board and the
United States Postal Service.
   (B)   Each house, building, lot or occupied structure shall be assigned a
separate number. A number or alphabetical letter shall be assigned for each
separate occupant, i.e., apartment, company and the like, within a building or
other occupied structure.
   (C)   Existing numbers shall be changed only as necessary to ensure the
effectiveness and efficiency of the enhanced 911 system in the county, as
determined in the judgment of the County 911 Coordinator, the City Clerk and
the Street Superintendent and with the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   Written notification of the proper address of each house, building,
structure or lot shall be given to its owner, occupant or agent or all
instances where a new number has been assigned under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 150.03 CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION.
   The County 911 Coordinator shall present a list of suggestions for the
assignment of addresses for any building, lots or occupied structures adjacent
to any street, lane or highway within the city limits to the City Council at
the first regular scheduled Council meeting of each month for consideration and
adoption. In the event that said addresses are adopted, they shall take effect
immediately after the corporate authority has adopted the change in accordance
with 65 ILCS 5/11-80-18 and after due notice has been given to the United
States Postal Service.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-7-2010)
§ 150.04 PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or agent of each house, building or other
structure assigned a number under the uniform numbers system provided in this
chapter shall place or cause to be placed such numbers on or near the house,
building or other structure within 60 days after receiving notification of the
propr number assignment.
   (B)   The owner, occupant or agent of each house, building or other
structure in the corporate area of the city that has previously been addressed,
shall also place or cause to be placed such number on or near the house,
building or other structure within 180 days of the enactment of this chapter.
   (C)   Cost and installation of the numbers for the structures shall be paid
for by the property owner. Numbers shall not be less than three inches in
height. All numbers shall be made of durable and clearly visible material.
   (D)   All numbers shall be conspicuously placed immediately above, on or at
the side of the appropriate door to the house, building or other structure so
that the number is clearly visible from the street. In cases where the
structure is situated so that the numbers placed upon it cannot be visible from
the street, the structure number shall be placed near the walk, driveway or
common entrance to the structure or upon the mailbox, gate post, fence or other
appropriate place so as to be clearly visible from the street.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-7-2010) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
150.04 shall be a violation of this chapter, and the violator shall be subject
to a fine of not more than $25 for each day of said violation, plus court costs
and surcharges.
(Ord. 10-04, passed 4-7-2010)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Prohibition
   
151.03   Abatement
   
151.04   Fire limits
   
151.05   Post guard or watchman
   
151.06   Abatement and demolition of dangerous building
Electrical Code
   
151.20   Code adopted
   
151.21   Code on file
   
151.22   Permit required
   
151.23   Enforcement
   
151.24   Modifications
   
151.25   Appeals
Plumbing Code
   
151.40   Adoption of state code
   
151.41   Code on file
   
151.42   Enforcement
   
151.43   Modifications
Housing Code
   
151.55   Adoption of Housing Code
   
151.56   Enforcement
   
151.57   Modifications
   
151.58   Appeals
 
   
151.99   Penalty
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition, and which may cause or
aid the spread of disease, or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
         (b)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
         (c)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure, which,
by reason of faulty construction or any other cause, is liable to cause injury
or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
         (d)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure, which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
      (2)   Any such DANGEROUS BUILDING in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1975 Code, § 7.05)
§ 151.02 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(1975 Code, § 7.06) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police, the Code Enforcement Officer or the Fire
Marshal shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the city is a
dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to this effect
with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be
served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
certified mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it; and that the condition must be remedied at once.
Such notice may be in the following terms:
   “To ___________ (owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as ____________________________________
   You are hereby notified that ___________ (describe building) on the premises
above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by __________________.
   The causes for this decision are____________
______________________________________ (here insert the facts as to the
dangerous conditions).
   You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
City will proceed to do so.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists, within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or certified mail, the Code
Enforcement Officer, the City Engineer or the Fire Marshal may, upon orders of
the Mayor and City Council, proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the
dangerous building.
(1975 Code, § 7.07)
§ 151.04 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Any building or structure within the fire limits of the city which has
or may be damaged by fire, decay or other causes to the extent of 50% of its
value, shall be torn down and removed, or rebuilt with non-flammable walls.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the City Engineer, Fire Marshal, Code
Enforcement Officer to the effect that such building has been so damaged, filed
with the Clerk, the Clerk shall notify the Mayor of the receipt of such notice.
   (C)   The Mayor shall then appoint three persons to determine whether or not
such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its value.
   (D)   A copy of the notice of the appointment of this board of three persons
to determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises by
personal service or by certified mail at his or her last known address.
   (E)   Such notice shall be in substantially the following form:
   “To _________________________________:
   “You are hereby notified that________________ _______________________ has
determined that the building owned by you, _______________, located within the
fire limits of the city has been damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to the
extent of fifty (50%) percent of its value, and that a board of three (3)
persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which board will hold its
first meeting in Room ______, in the ____________ hall at the hour of _________
(__.m.), at which time it will determine whether or not this finding is
correct.
   “If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear down and remove the
building, or rebuild it with non-flammable walls.”
   (F)   If this finding is verified by the Board of three members, and it
determines that the building in question has been damaged to the extent of 50%
of its value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down and remove the
building within 20 days after the finding of such Board, or to remodel it to
comply with the requirements of the new buildings in the fire limits; and it
shall be unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such building after such
finding until it is so remodeled.
(1975 Code, § 7.08)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1
§ 151.05 POST GUARD OR WATCHMAN.
   (A)   Whenever a building presents an immediate danger to the general
public, the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designated officer is hereby
declared to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall also apply to Article III of this Chapter.
(1975 Code, § 7.09)
§ 151.06 ABATEMENT AND DEMOLITION OF DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   65 ILCS 5/11-31, as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois General
Assembly, entitled, “Unsafe Buildings”, shall prevail in the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(1975 Code, § 7.10)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 151.20 CODE ADOPTED.
   The 1968 National Electrical Code and all subsequent amendments thereto,
Standard of the National Board of Fire Underwriters for Electric Wiring and
Apparatus, is hereby adopted by reference as the Electrical Code of the city;
provided that if any provisions of the National Electrical Code are in conflict
with the law of the state or any code of this city, the state law or such code
shall prevail.
(1975 Code, § 13.01)
§ 151.21 CODE ON FILE.
   The National Electrical Code shall be on file in the office of the City
Clerk for use and examination by the public and shall remain on file in the
office, available for public use, inspection and examination.
(1975 Code, § 13.02)
§ 151.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No alteration or change shall be made in the wiring or appliances of
any building, nor shall any wiring be done for electric lights, meters or
heating devices without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Clerk,
nor shall any change be made in any wiring or appliances after inspection
without notice to the City Clerk and obtaining an additional permit therefor.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for such permit, the City Clerk shall
refer such application to the Electrical Inspector of the city and such permit
shall be issued by the City Clerk only upon receipt of the approval of such
Inspector.
   (C)   The fee for an electrical permit shall be as follows for both
electrical and plumbing:
      (1)   First 1,000 feet: $5 minimum; and
      (2)   Over 1,000 feet: $1.50 per 1,000 feet.
(1975 Code, § 13.03) (Ord. 351, passed 7-19-1965)
§ 151.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Building Inspector.
(1975 Code, § 13.04)
§ 151.24 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the provisions of
the rules and regulations hereby adopted upon the application in writing by the
owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the rules and
regulations, provided that the spirit of the rules and regulations shall be
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The particulars
of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of the Building
Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of his or her department
and a signed copy shall be furnished to the office of the City Clerk and to the
applicant.
(1975 Code, § 13.06)
§ 151.25 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector shall disapprove an application, or when it
is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the code has been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the Building Inspector to the City
Council within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1975 Code, § 13.07)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 151.40 ADOPTION OF STATE CODE.
   The State Plumbing Code, adopted July 1, 1959, and all subsequent amendments
thereto, published by the State Department of Public Health, Division of
Sanitary Engineering, is hereby adopted by reference, as the Plumbing Code of
the city, provided that if any of the provisions of the State Plumbing Code are
in conflict with any law of the city, such law shall prevail.
(1975 Code, § 29.01) (Ord. 69-10, passed 11-5-1969)
§ 151.41 CODE ON FILE.
   The State Plumbing Code shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk for
use and examination by the public and shall remain on file in the office
available for public use, inspection and examination.
(1975 Code, § 29.02) (Ord. 69-10, passed 11-5-1969)
§ 151.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Building Inspector.
(1975 Code, § 29.04)
§ 151.43 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations hereby adopted upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
rules and regulations, provided that the spirit of the rules and regulations
shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Building Inspector officer thereon shall be entered upon the
records of his or her office and signed copy shall be furnished to the office
of the City Clerk and to the applicant.
(1975 Code, § 29.05)
HOUSING CODE
§ 151.55 ADOPTION OF HOUSING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city, for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property those certain
rules and regulations known as “Proposed Housing Ordinance”, recommended by the
American Public Health Association, Inc., being particularly the edition of
1952, and all later editions and modifications of such rules and regulations as
recommended by the American Public Health Association, Inc., of which rules and
regulations not less than two copies shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Clerk, and said rules and regulations are hereby adopted and incorporated
as fully as if set out at length herein with the exception of Section 3, P 5.4
which are hereby deleted from said ordinance, and from the date on which this
subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
within the limits of the city.
(1975 Code, § 20.01)
§ 151.56 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Building Inspector.
(1975 Code, § 20.02)
§ 151.57 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to modify any of the
provisions of the rules and regulations hereby adopted upon application in
writing by the owner or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there
are practical difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
rules and regulations, provided that the spirit of the rules and regulations
shall be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the
decision of the Building Inspector thereon shall be entered upon the records of
his or her office and a signed copy shall be furnished to the City Clerk and
the applicant.
(1975 Code, § 20.03)
§ 151.58 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector shall disapprove an application or when it
is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the Building Inspector to the City
Council, within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(1975 Code, § 20.04)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the rules and
regulations hereby adopted in §§
151.20 through
151.25, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by
the City Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed
herein, shall severally, for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$5, nor more than $25, and in the event of a continuance of such failure,
neglect or refusal to comply with such order, each day’s continuance is a
separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1975 Code, § 13.08)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the rules and
regulations hereby adopted in §§
151.40 through
151.43, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the City Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time
fixed herein, shall severally, for each and every such violation and
noncompliance, respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not less than $5, nor more than $25, and in the event of a continuance of
such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with such order, each day’s
continuance is a separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall
not be held to prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1975 Code, § 29.07)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the rules and
regulations hereby adopted in §§
151.55 through
151.58, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by
the City Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally, for each and every such violation and noncompliance,
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$10, nor more than $50, and in the event of a continuance of such failure,
neglect or refusal to comply with such order, each day’s continuance is a
separate offense. The application of the above penalty shall not be held to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1975 Code, § 20.05) (Ord. 351, passed 7-19-1965; Ord. 69-6, passed 11-5-1969)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 50 ILCS 220/1 through 7
CHAPTER 152: FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Base flood elevation
   
152.04   Duties of the Building Inspector
   
152.05   Development permit
   
152.06   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
152.07   Protecting buildings
   
152.08   Subdivision requirements
    
152.09   Public health and other standards
   
152.10   Variances
   
152.11   Disclaimer of liability
   
152.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city
by the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1,5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-
8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
152.03.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings and gas
or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including, but not
necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The terms are synonymous.
Those lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are subject to inundation
by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the Little Cache Creek and McCormick
Creek are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the
city, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated July 18,
1983. The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated city that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for
the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated August 24,
1984. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified by
the community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 through
4128.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilition, addition or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: built on a
single chassis; 400 square feet or less in size; designed to be self-propelled
or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and designed primarily not for
use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping, travel or seasonal use.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood.
   (B)   The best available base flood data are listed below.
   (C)   Whenever a party disagrees with the best available data, the party
shall finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace the existing
data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and IDNR/OWR for approval prior
to any development of the site.
      (1)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Little Cache Creek
shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance
study of the city prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on May
16, 1983.
      (2)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain delineated as an AH
Zone or AO Zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the flood
insurance rate map of the city.
      (3)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A Zone on the flood insurance rate map of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine
base flood elevations.
      (4)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, or that may be annexed into the city shall be according to the best
available date.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.04 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall be responsible for the general administration of
this chapter and ensure that all development activities within the floodplains
under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the City Clerk shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
152.05;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
152.07 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built’ elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
152.08;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
152.09;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
152.10 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
152.99 as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections and make substantial damage
determinations for structures within the floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.05 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the City Clerk.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
         (a)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
         (b)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from excavation or filling;
         (c)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
         (d)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
152.07; and
         (e)   The cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement
      (2)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the City
Clerk shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
      (3)   Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the
base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current
flood insurance rate map is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map
identification.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within all floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall
be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat to
public health and safety.
      (2)   The following specific development activities shall be considered
as meeting this requirement:
         (a)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
         (b)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
         (c)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
         (d)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No 6;
         (e)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7:
         (f)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
         (g)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
         (h)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
         (i)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
         (j)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
         (k)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 13; and
         (l)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely
within a flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.07 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
152.06, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any repairs which have taken place
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (7)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
152.02.
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated; or
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent openings on each
wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current waves, ice and floating debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
   (C)   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
site shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the Rules and Regulations for the State Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act, being 210 ILCS 120 issued pursuant to 77 Ill. Adm. Code 870.
   (D)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days per year shall meet the elevation requirements of division (C) above,
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
      (2)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches;
      (3)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
      (4)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
      (5)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
      (6)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain;
      (7)   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick-
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (8)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
      (9)   The vehicle must be either entirely supported by jacks rather than
blocks or have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground, and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to be
easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (E)   (1)   Nonresidential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and
the impact from debris and ice; and
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
      (2)   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this division (E).
   (F)   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use may be
permitted, provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway;
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every square foot of floor area;
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $57,500 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
      (10)   Flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation;
and
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
   (G)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.08 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
152.06 and
152.07.
   (C)   Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.09 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
152.06 and
152.07, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
152.07.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the City Council for
a variance.
   (B)   The City Council shall review the applicant’s request for a variance
and shall submit its recommendation to the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety,
or creation of a nuisance;
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The City Council shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
152.07 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
      (3)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
152.07 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
State Register of Historic Places may be granted using criteria more permissive
than the requirements of §
152.09(A)(1) through (A)(4).
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city
to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program including:
92-01 adopted April 15, 1992; however, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program,
nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon due investigation, the City Attorney may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
   (C)   The City Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
      (1)   If such owner fails after ten days’ notice to correct the
violation:
         (a)   The city shall make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the Court deems necessary to secure compliance with the ordinance;
         (b)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500 for each offense;
         (c)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
         (d)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
      (2)   The City Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-7-2004)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose and jurisdiction
   
153.002   Rules and definitions
   
153.003   Definitions
   
153.004   Bond
Procedure
   
153.015   Procedure
   
153.016   Preliminary plan
   
153.017   Engineering plans
   
153.018   Final plat
Preliminary Plan
   
153.030   Identification and description
   
153.031   Existing conditions
   
153.032   Proposed subdivision design features
Approval of Preliminary Plan
   
153.045   Checklist completed
   
153.046   Changes or revisions
   
153.047   Approval; tentative
   
153.048   Certificate
Engineering Plan
   
153.060   Easements
   
153.061   Public utilities
   
153.062   Sewers
   
153.063   Water supply
   
153.064   Street improvements
Approval of Engineering Plan
   
153.075   Checklist
   
153.076   Changes or revisions
   
153.077   Approval tentative
   
153.078   Letter of approval
Final Plat
   
153.090   General
   
153.091   Additional delineation
   
153.092   Appropriate certificates
Enforcement and Release of Bond
   
153.105   Construction time constraints
   
153.106   Inspection
   
153.107   Release of bond
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Checklists
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION.
   All subdivisions hereafter planned within the incorporated limits of the
city and for a distance of one and one-half miles beyond the city limits,
shall, in all respects, be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter
contained in this code.
(1975 Code, § 34.01)
§ 153.002 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof; and any word appearing in parentheses, directly after a word herein
defined, shall be construed in the same sense as that word.
   (B)   All measured distances, expressed in feet, tenths and hundredths.
   (C)   See
Chapter 10 for other definitions.
(1975 Code, § 34.02)
§ 153.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Also called thoroughfare, major street, highway, is a
public right-of-way with the highest degree of traffic continuity and serving
as a major traffic-way for fast or heavy traffic between the various districts
of the city, as shown in the official plan.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so
designated on the preliminary plan, between which line and the adjacent street,
the erection of an enclosed structure is prohibited.
   CHECKLIST. A list of all necessary data and information required to be shown
on or submitted along with each preliminary plan, engineering plan or final
plat, as appropriate.
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity which carries traffic
from minor streets to an arterial street, including the principal entrance
streets of residential developments and the principal circulating streets
within such a development.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having one open end and being permanently
terminated at the other by a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of the specific use of land by others.
   ENGINEERING PLAN. A set of plans and specifications prepared by a registered
engineer, showing in detail all data required in §§
153.060 through
153.064.
   FINAL PLAT. A surveyor’s plat of a proposed subdivision as described in §§
153.018 and
153.090.
   LAND IMPROVEMENTS. Sewer and water systems, including all appurtenances
thereto, curbs, paving, street lights, sidewalks, street signs, seeding and
tree plantings required under this chapter.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for the purpose, whether immediate or future of transfer of ownership or for
building development.
   MARGINAL STREET. A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to, or in
the immediate vicinity of an arterial street and which has, for its purposes,
the relief of such thoroughfares from the local service of abutting properties.
   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and the local needs of the neighborhood.
   OFFICIAL PLAN. The composite of the functional and geographic elements of
the official plan or any segment thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts
and textual material, as adopted by the city.
   OFFICIAL SURVEY MONUMENT. One-half inch diameter iron rod cast in the center
of a Portland cement monument four by six by 24 inches, or approved equal.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in the land
sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the
same under this chapter.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY (CROSSWALK). A right-of-way across a block or providing
access within a block, to be used primarily by pedestrians.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision, as
described in §
153.030.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of property owners, and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   STREET. Also called avenue, highway, road, boulevard, lane, court, drive,
parkway, place, terrace, is a right-of-way which affords means of access by
pedestrians and vehicles to abutting properties.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines delineating the right-of-
way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter for himself
or herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels, with the exception of lots and blocks in
recorded subdivisions, any of which resultant parcel is less than five acres in
area, or, if a new street is involved, any division or a parcel of land.
(1975 Code, § 34.03)
§ 153.004 BOND.
   “Know all men by these presents that we _____________________________ (name
of individual, corporation, etc.) as principal, and the
___________________________ (name of bonding company), a corporation,
authorized to do business in the State of _________, as in the penal sum of
______ Dollars, lawful money of the United States for the payment of which we
and each of us bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators, successors
and assigns jointly, by these presents:
   The condition of this obligation is such that whereas, the said _________,
(name of individual, corporation or principal) has agreed to construct and/or
install at its expense the following improvements:
      Street base and paving
      Concrete curb and gutters
      Water mains, appurtenances and house services
      Storm sewers, appurtenances and house services
      Sanitary sewers, appurtenances and house services
      Concrete sidewalks
      Street lights
      Site improvements
   all in accordance with the specifications and codes of the City, and
contained in plans and specifications prepared by ____________ (named
engineer), and approved by the City Council at the following location:
      ___________________________________________ _________
      (Description of Property)
   And has agreed to maintain such improvements constructed under this bond for
a period of one year from the date of acceptance of the same by the City.
   Now, therefore, if the said principal shall well and truly perform in all
respects in strict accordance with the requirements, and shall save the City
harmless from all loss, cost or damage, by reason of their failure to complete
said work, or maintain said improvements, relating to the above-described work,
then this obligation to be void, otherwise, to remain in full force and
effect.”
(1975 Code, § 34.39)
PROCEDURE
§ 153.015 PROCEDURE.
   In order to subdivide any tract of land (with the exception of division or
subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five acres or more in size and
not involving a new street or easement of access, or the sale or exchange of
existing parcels or tracts of land, or the division of lots and blocks in
recorded subdivisions) an owner or subdivider shall follow the procedure set
forth in this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 34.04) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.016 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The subdivider shall file with the City Council at the office of the
City Clerk, six copies of the preliminary plan, at least ten days prior to the
regularly scheduled Plan Commission meeting and pay a filing fee in accordance
with the following rates:
      (1)   For one to 50 lots a fee of $25;
      (2)   For 50 to 100 lots, a fee of $50; and
      (3)   For more than 100 lots, a fee of $100.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall immediately distribute two copies to the
Superintendent of Public Works, one copy to the Superintendent of Schools, and
one copy to the City Council.
   (C)   The recommendation of the Plan Commission shall be due within 45 days
after receipt of the preliminary plan by the Plan Commission and the
recommendation shall be returned to the City Clerk for referral to the City
Council.
   (D)   In the event of disapproval of any preliminary plan by the City
Council, the same shall be immediately returned, so marked to the City Clerk
for return to the subdivider. The subdivider may then file a revised
preliminary plan in accordance with division (A) above.
   (E)   A preliminary plan for a specific area of land shall be held valid, as
applicable to this Code, for a period of three years after the date of approval
by the City Council. The period of validity of such preliminary plan may be
extended for periods of one year only after request for such extension has been
submitted to and approved by the City Council within the final 60 days of any
aforementioned period of validity.
(1975 Code, § 34.06)
§ 153.017 ENGINEERING PLANS.
   Within 12 months after receiving approval of the preliminary plan by the
City Council, there shall be submitted to the City Clerk by the subdivider,
four copies of the engineering plans and specifications as required in §§
153.060 through
153.064. The City Clerk shall immediately refer two copies to the Plan
Commission and two copies to the Superintendent of Public Works and shall
notify the City Council of this section at the next regular City Council
meeting. In the event of a special problem, the Plan Commission shall notify
the owner or subdivider of the time and place at which he or she shall be
afforded an opportunity of being heard. The Plan Commission shall make its
recommendation to the City Council within 45 days after receipt of the
engineering drawings and specifications. In the event of disapproval of the
engineering plans and specifications by the Plan Commission, the same shall be
immediately returned so marked to the City Clerk, for return to the subdivider,
and may be refiled with the City Clerk after necessary revisions are made.
(1975 Code, § 34.07)
§ 153.018 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Within six months after receiving approval of the engineering plans
and specifications by the Plan Commission, or a period of time beyond six
months that may be granted by the City Council, there shall be submitted to the
City Clerk by the subdivider, the original drawing, one transparency print and
four copies of the final plat, which shall also contain all required signed
certifications, other than signed certificates of approval by the Plan
Commission, the City Council and the Superintendent of Public Works. The final
plat shall retain the overall characteristics of the preliminary plan and may
include all or part of the area shown on the preliminary plan. The City Clerk
shall refer the original drawing and two copies of the final plat to the Plan
Commission and one copy of the final plat to the Superintendent of Public
Works, at least ten days prior to their next regularly scheduled meeting for a
recommendation as to final approval. In the event of a special problem, the
Plan Commission shall notify the owner or subdivider as to the time and place
of the Plan Commission’s meeting at which time he or she will be afforded an
opportunity of being heard. The Plan Commission shall make its recommendation
within 30 days after the receipt of the final plat at a meeting of the Plan
Commission. The original drawing, one copy of the final plat and recommendation
shall be returned to the City Clerk for referral to the City Council.
   (B)   After receiving the final report of the Plan Commission, the City
Council shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 30 days. In the event
of disapproval of the final plat by the City Council, the same shall be
immediately returned to the subdivider and may be refiled as provided in
division (A) above, with the City Clerk after the necessary revisions have been
made.
   (C)   Following the final approval of the final plat, the City Clerk shall
notify the owner or subdivider by letter.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall, within ten days after the aforementioned
final approval, record the final plat at the County Recorder’s Office.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall, at that time, obtain four copies of the final
plat bearing evidence of recording, one copy going to the City Clerk’s file,
one copy to the Plan Commission file and two copies going to the Superintendent
of Public Works.
      (3)   The costs of recording shall be paid to the County Recorder by the
city. The subdivider shall reimburse the city for the costs of recording.
(1975 Code, § 34.08)
PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 153.030 IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Proposed name of subdivision.
   (B)   Location by section, town and range, or by other legal description.
   (C)   Names and addresses of owner, or subdivider having control of the
tract, name and seal of registered engineer or surveyor who prepared
topographic survey, and designer of the plan.
   (D)   Graphic (engineering) scale not smaller than one inch to 100 feet.
   (E)   North-point (designated as true north).
   (F)   Date of preparation.
   (G)   Drawn on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets.
(1975 Code, § 34.09)
§ 153.031 EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision clearly indicated.
   (B)   Total approximate acreage therein.
   (C)   Existing zoning district.
   (D)   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets, or other rights-of-way, showing type of improvement, if any, railroad
and utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent
buildings and structures, easements and section and corporate lines within the
tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the tract.
   (E)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other
underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet beyond
the tract; also, indicating such data as grades, invert elevations and
locations of catch basins, manholes and hydrants.
   (F)   Location map, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals 1,000
feet, showing boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land
within an area bounded by nearest arterial streets or other natural boundaries
identifying type of use and ownership of surrounding land and showing
alignments of existing streets.
   (G)   Topographic data including existing and proposed contours at vertical
intervals of not more than two feet. Topographic data shall be indicated in
feet above mean sea level. Watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, other
significant features and soil boring data at locations at depths as may be
required by the Superintendent of Public Works.
   (H)   Locations of or reference to locations of existing monuments, bench
marks and survey markers used in preparation of plans.
(1975 Code, § 34.10)
§ 153.032 PROPOSED SUBDIVISION DESIGN FEATURES.
   (A)   Street plan.
      (1)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of
all streets shall conform to the official plan and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic
within the subdivision and adjoining lands, to topographical conditions, to
runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (2)   Every street in any subdivision shall be dedicated as a public
street and no private streets shall be approved, except by special action of
the Plan Commission and the City Council.
      (3)   The layout of streets shall show right-of-way widths and street
names (not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the city or
its environs, unless the street is an extension of an already named street, in
which case, the name shall be used), and showing a proposed through street
extended to the boundaries of the subdivision.
         (a)   Right-of-way widths of major traffic-ways, including freeways,
parkways, major and secondary thoroughfares, shall be in accordance with those
designated on the official plan.
         (b)   All right-of-way widths shall conform to the following minimum
dimensions:
            1.   Collector streets: 80 feet;
            2.   Minor streets: 60 feet;
            3.   Cul-de-sac streets: 66 feet; and
            4.   Marginal access streets: 40 feet.
         (c)   A cul-de-sac street shall not be more than 500 feet in length
measured along its centerline from the street of origin to the end of its
right-of-way, unless there are less than 16 lots abutting the cul-de-sac
street. Each cul-de-sac shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a
minimum diameter of 120 feet.
         (d)   Provisions shall be made for serving lots abutting arterial
streets and highways by either the use of a marginal access street, or backing
lots to the arterial street with a screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property line.
         (e)   It must be evidenced that all street intersections and
confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow. The intersection of more
than two streets shall be avoided, unless specific conditions of design
indicate otherwise.
         (f)   Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
         (g)   Where there is a deflection in the street alignment in excess of
ten degrees, a curve shall be inserted with a radius not less than:
            1.   Collector streets: 300 feet; and
            2.   Minor streets: 150 feet.
         (h)   Tangents at least 50 feet long shall be introduced between
reverse curves on collector streets.
      (4)   The existing and proposed centerline profile and cross section of
each street shall be shown, indicating also when a new subdivision abuts a
previously dedicated street right-of-way that all required street improvements
out to the centerline of this existing street bounding the new subdivision
shall be installed to meet and comply with the current standards of the city.
         (a)   Where there is a deflection in the horizontal centerline within
a given block at any one point in excess of ten degrees, a curve shall be
inserted with a radius of not less than:
            1.   Collector streets: 300 feet; and
            2.   Minor streets: 150 feet.
         (b)   Gradients of streets shall be at least 0.4% and shall not exceed
on:
            1.   Collector streets: 5%; and
            2.   Minor streets: 7%
      (5)   The preliminary plan shall show, or a certificate shall be
submitted to the effect that the subdivider will install all of the following
items in accordance with the current standards and specifications as set forth
in pertinent city ordinance:
         (a)   Pavements, asphalt;
         (b)   Curbs and gutters (not mandatory);
         (c)   Street lights (not mandatory);
         (d)   Sidewalks (not mandatory); and
         (e)   Street signs (not mandatory).
   (B)   Block standards.
      (1)   Block numbers will be shown.
      (2)   The maximum lengths of blocks shall be 1,200 feet. Blocks over 900
feet long may require pedestrian ways at their approximate centers. The use of
additional access ways to schools, parks or other destinations may be specified
by the Plan Commission.
      (3)   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks
must fit readily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their design must
evidence consideration of topographical conditions, lot planning, traffic flow
and public open space areas.
      (4)   Blocks intended for commercial, industrial and institutional use
must be designated as such.
      (5)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad right-of-way
or limited access thoroughfare right-of-way, the Plan Commission may require a
street approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land as for:
         (a)   Park purposes;
         (b)   Deep residential lots backing to a railroad or arterial street
with a planting screen in a no-access area at rear property lines of lots; or
         (c)   Motor vehicle parking, business or industry with due regard for
the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
   (C)   Lot standards.
      (1)   In general, lots should be as nearly rectangular in shape as
practicable.
      (2)   The minimum lot dimensions for residential development shall be 70
feet wide at the established building line and not less than 100 feet in
average depth, and containing not less than the minimum lot area requirements
of the Zoning Code. These minimum requirements shall not apply to land
subdivided for non-residential development.
      (3)   All lots shall have not less than the minimum width of the lot
abutting on a publicly dedicated street.
      (4)   Side lines of lots shall be at right angles or radial to the street
line, or substantially so.
      (5)   Corner lots shall be not less than 90 feet in average width.
      (6)   Double frontage lots are not permitted, except:
         (a)   Where lots back upon an arterial street, and in such instances,
vehicular and pedestrian access between lots and the arterial street is
prohibited; and
         (b)   Where topographic or other conditions render subdividing
otherwise unreasonable, such double frontage lots shall have an additional
depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow for a protective screen planting on
one frontage.
      (7)   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream,
shall be of an additional depth or width, as required, to provide an acceptable
building site.
      (8)   In the subdividing of any land within the city or within one and
one-half miles of the corporate limits, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar
conditions.
      (9)   The layout, numbers, areas and dimensions of lots to the nearest
foot, and the proposed land use for each lot, parcel or tract shall be
indicated.
      (10)   The minimum front and side street building setback lines shall be
shown and dimensioned in accordance with the applicable zoning code
requirements.
   (D)   Parks and other public areas.
      (1)   Where any area is specifically designated on the general
development plan of the city, for a public park, playground, school or other
public use, and is owned by the subdivider, such area shall be reserved for
such use on all subdivision plans and plats, and the acquisition of such area
may then be secured by the City Council or arrangements made for its
acquisition within a period not to exceed one year from the date of approval of
the final plan. The value of such lands shall be established by three qualified
appraisers; one of whom shall be appointed by the Plan Commission, one by the
subdivider, and one of whom shall be mutually agreed upon by the other two.
      (2)   Should the City Council decide to take such premises, then and in
that case, it shall make arrangements to pay the subdivider therefor the
appraised value as determined by the above described appraisers, or a sum that
is mutually agreed upon. The City Council may accept any donation of land as
above described should the subdivider desire to contribute the same to the
city.
   (E)   Utilities.
      (1)   Source of domestic water supply and type of sewage disposal,
location of sites for community domestic water plant and/or community sewage
treatment plant.
      (2)   Storm water drainage.
         (a)   Complete storm sewer system, including pipe sizes, inlets and
inverts.
         (b)   A proposed surface water drainage pattern for each individual
lot, block and street.
      (3)   All easements as required in §
153.060 shall be indicated.
      (4)   Protective covenants.
      (5)   An outline of all proposed protective covenants shall accompany the
preliminary plan and shall include a protection against the obstruction of any
surface water drainage easement.
(1975 Code, § 34.11)
APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN
§ 153.045 CHECKLIST COMPLETED.
   In order to qualify for approval, the preliminary plan shall be accompanied
by a properly executed checklist as shown in
Appendix A.
(1975 Code, § 34.12)
§ 153.046 CHANGES OR REVISIONS.
   The Plan Commission and the Superintendent of Schools may recommend or the
City Council may require such changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in
the interests and needs of the community.
(1975 Code, § 34.14)
§ 153.047 APPROVAL; TENTATIVE.
   The approval of a preliminary plan by the Plan Commission and the City
Council is tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of the
layout as submitted.
(1975 Code, § 34.15)
§ 153.048 CERTIFICATE.
   Approval shall consist of a certificate to that effect on the preliminary
plan signed by the Chairperson of the Plan Commission and by the Mayor upon
authorization by the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 34.16)
ENGINEERING PLAN
§ 153.060 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements shall be provided for all overhead or underground utility
services or surface water drainage where necessary. They shall be ten feet wide
and shall be established at the rear of each lot and along such other lot lines
as necessary to provide continuity of alignment from block to block. At
deflection points in these easements, if overhead utility lines are
contemplated, additional easements shall be established for pole line anchors.
   (B)   In a subdivision containing 60 acres or more, where lots are to be
served by individual water supply and sewage disposal systems, and future
resubdivisions may be contemplated upon the installation of public or community
water and sanitary sewer facilities, easements of required width shall be shown
for utility and street installation at locations necessary to serve lots in any
future resubdivision.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage easement conforming
substantially with the lines of such watercourse. It shall include an
additional area at least 15 feet wide, adjoining both edges of the established
area that has been affected by damaging flood waters, as certified by the
subdivider, or his or her engineer.
   (D)   All existing drainage and underground utility installations which
traverse property to be subdivided shall be protected by easements.
(1975 Code, § 34.17)
§ 153.061 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be placed
in rear-line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (B)   Gas, electric power, telephone and television service. All
subdivisions shall be connected with the gas, electric power and telephone
utilities supplying service to the city. In addition, the subdivisions may be
connected with the local television service. In addition, after the effective
date of this code, all unsubdivided lands within the city, whether developed by
subdivision, record of survey, or parcels described by metes and bounds or
otherwise, shall have the above referred to utilities and television service
installed entirely underground. The following utility lines are excepted from
this provision:
      (1)   Electric lines rated at 33,000 volts or more; and
      (2)   Electric lines designed or built to carry 2,000 kilovolt amperes or
more.
   (C)   Where telephone, electric and gas service lines are placed underground
throughout a subdivision area, conduits or cables shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict with
other underground services. Further all pad-mounted transformers shall be
located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
(1975 Code, § 34.19)
§ 153.062 SEWERS.
   (A)   All sewer plans and installations shall conform to the standards and
specifications set forth in The Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois, as established by the Illinois Society of
Professional Engineers.
   (B)   Sanitary sewer lines shall be installed to serve all properties in the
subdivision except subdivisions where individual sewage disposal systems are
permitted.
   (C)   Where sanitary sewer mains of larger capacity than necessary to serve
the subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plan are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the City
Council, the city shall then reimburse the subdivider for the difference in
cost of the smaller size pipe and the larger size pipe; said larger size to be
determined by the City Council.
   (D)   A storm sewer system shall be constructed throughout the entire
subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and catch basins, and shall be
connected to an adequate outfall. Such sewers shall provide for an extension to
land lying within the upland drainage area, whether such land is within the
subdivision or not. Storm sewers shall be designed by the rational method; and
copies of the design computations shall be submitted with the plans. Inlets
shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, nor for a distance of more than 600 feet in the gutter. The storm
water drainage system shall be separate and independent of the sanitary sewer
system. Surface water drainage patterns shall be shown for each and every
individual lot and block.
(1975 Code, § 34.20)
§ 153.063 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   All water main plans and installations, including all appurtenances
thereto shall conform to the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois as established by the Illinois Society of Professional
Engineers.
   (B)   Water distribution facilities including all pipe, fittings, hydrants,
valves, vaults and the like, shall be installed to serve all properties within
the subdivision.
   (C)   Where water mains of larger capacity than necessary to serve the
subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plan are required to serve the
future growth in the vicinity of the subdivision, as determined by the City
Council, the city shall then reimburse the subdivider for the difference in
cost of the smaller size and the larger size pipe, said larger size to be
determined by the City Council.
(1975 Code, § 34.21)
§ 153.064 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All street improvement plans, construction, installations and
plantings shall conform to the specifications approved by the Division of
Highways of the state for the type of pavement designated as Class “A” and
subclass “A-3” in the Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois as established by the Illinois Society of Professional Engineers.
   (B)   The general street layout shall conform to that shown on the approved
preliminary plan.
   (C)   All streets shall be completely improved to the full width of the
right-of-way and shall include the below listed items:
      (1)   Pavements shall be installed to an overall width in accordance with
the following minimum dimensions:
 
Type of Street        Pavement Width (back to back of curbs)
Collector             38 feet
Cul-de-sac            32 feet
Cul-de-sac turnaround 80 feet
Minor                 32 feet
 
      (2)   Curbs and gutters and storm water inlets, with all corner curbs
having a radius of not less than 16 feet. Plans shall indicate the direction of
flow along all curbs.
      (3)   Street lights, including all necessary poles, brackets, luminaries
and lamps.
      (4)   Concrete sidewalks along all property lines coincidental with
street right-of-way lines.
(1975 Code, § 34.22)
APPROVAL OF ENGINEERING PLAN
§ 153.075 CHECKLIST.
   In order to qualify for approval, the engineering plan shall be accompanied
by a properly executed checklist as shown in
Appendix A, § 2.
(1975 Code, § 34.23)
§ 153.076 CHANGES OR REVISIONS.
   The Plan Commission may recommend, or the City Council may require such
changes or revisions as are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the
community.
(1975 Code, § 34.24)
§ 153.077 APPROVAL TENTATIVE.
   The Plan Commission may grant partial approval of the total required
engineering plans by approval of plans covering only a portion of the land
improvements (e.g., sanitary sewer and water) so as to facilitate immediate
installations. This partial approval shall consist of a certificate on the
plans covering each of the required improvements signed by the Plan Commission.
(1975 Code, § 34.25)
§ 153.078 LETTER OF APPROVAL.
   Final approval of the complete set of engineering plans shall consist of a
letter of approval from the Plan Commission, listing therein:
   (A)   Type of improvement(s) covered by the plan;
   (B)   Name of designing engineer; and
   (C)   Date of preparation and revision, if any.
(1975 Code, § 34.26)
FINAL PLAT
§ 153.090 GENERAL.
   (A)   Final plats shall conform to all statutory provisions pertaining to
plats.
   (B)   All information required shall be shown accurately, drawn with
waterproof India ink on heavy transparent linen tracing paper or cloth, or
equal in such a manner that clear and legible contact prints or photostatic
copies may be made.
(1975 Code, § 34.27)
§ 153.091 ADDITIONAL DELINEATION.
   (A)   Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and
curvatures with functions used to describe all boundaries including perimeter
survey of tract, streets, easements, areas to be reserved for public use, and
other important features. Error of closure of boundary line surveys shall not
exceed one in 10,000 (one foot for each 10,000 feet of perimeter survey). Lot
lines to show dimensions in feet and hundredths and when an angle occurs in any
lot line between lot corners, the measurement of the angle shall be shown.
   (B)   An identification system for all lots and blocks.
   (C)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines and
official monuments (not less than three) which shall be accurately described in
the plat by location, size and elevation.
   (D)   Municipal, township, county or section lines and section corners
accurately tied to lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
   (E)   Accurate location of all monuments which shall be Portland cement
concrete four inches by six inches by 24 inches, or approved equal, with a one-
half inch diameter iron rod cast in the center. Permanent stone or concrete
monuments shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside boundary. Pipes
three-fourths inch diameter or steel rods one-half inch diameter, by 18-inch
length, placed at the corners of each lot and block, at angle points, and
county, city or other official bench marks, monuments or triangulation stations
in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position.
   (F)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any area to be dedicated
or reserved for public use, or for the exclusive use of property owners within
the subdivision with the purposes indicated thereon.
   (G)   Protective covenants shall be lettered on the final plat, or
appropriately referenced thereon.
(1975 Code, § 34.28)
§ 153.092 APPROPRIATE CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Surveyor’s certificate.
State of          )   ss
County of      )
This is to certify that I, _____________________, a certified land surveyor No.
________, have surveyed and subdivided the following described property:
Given under my hand and seal at ______________, this _____ day of __________,
20__.
   (B)   Owner’s certificate.
State of          )   ss
County of      )
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of the land described in
the annexed plat, and that he has caused the same to be surveyed and subdivided
as indicated thereon, for the uses and purposes therein set forth, and does
hereby acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title thereon
indicated:
                        _______________________
                        _______________________
                        (Address)
   Dated this ________ day of _______________, 20____.
   (C)   County Clerk’s certificate.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
I, _______________, County Clerk of ______ County, ___ do hereby certify that
there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes and no
redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the annexed plat.
I further certify that I have received all statutory fees in connection with
the annexed plat.
Given under my hand and seal at _____________ this _______ day of
_____________, 20___.
   (D)   Notary certificate.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
I, ____________, Notary Public, in and for said county in the state aforesaid,
do hereby certify that personally known by me to be the same persons whose
names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument as such owners, appeared
before me this day in person and acknowledged that they signed and delivered
the annexed plat as their own free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes
therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this _________ day of ______________,
20___, at ____.
                        ____________________________
                        (NOTARY PUBLIC)
   (E)   Certificate as to special assessments.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
I do hereby certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited
special assessments or any deferred installments thereof that have not been
apportioned against the tract of land included in the plat.
______________________ Collector of Special Assessments
Dated at _________, this ________ day of __________________, 20____.
   (F)   Certificate of County Superintendent of Highways.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
I, __________________, County Superintendent of Highways of said county, do
hereby certify that the subject plat has been examined, by me and found to
comply with the highway requirements as set forth in the regulations governing
plats of subdivided land adopted by the City Council, with the following
exceptions:
               __________________________________________
               County Superintendent of Highways
Dated this __________ day of ______________, 20____.
   (G)   Plan Commission certificate.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
Approved this _______ day of _____________, 20____.
City of __________________
      Plan Commission
   __________________
   Chairperson
   (H)   Superintendent of Water and/or Sewer System certificate.
State of         )   ss
County of      )
I,_______________________, do hereby certify that the required improvements
have been installed, or the required guarantee bond has been posted for the
completion of all required land improvements
               ______________________________________
               Superintendent of Water and/or Sewer Systems
   (I)   City Council certificate.
   Approved and accepted this ______ day of ____________, 20____.
                  CITY COUNCIL OF ______________________
                  BY _______________, Mayor
(1975 Code, § 34.29)
ENFORCEMENT AND RELEASE OF BOND
§ 153.105 CONSTRUCTION TIME CONSTRAINTS.
   All required land improvements shall be installed and completed within a
period of two years after the recording of the final plat. Failure of the
subdivider to complete all of the improvements within this two-year period
shall result in forfeiture of the guarantee collateral unless an extension of
time is requested by the subdivider and granted by the City Council. In the
event of failure to complete the improvements in the required period, as stated
above, the City Council may direct that no further building permits be issued
for property in such subdivision pending satisfaction of the City Council in
regard to the status of the required land improvements.
(1975 Code, § 34.32)
§ 153.106 INSPECTION.
   All required land improvements to be installed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be checked during the course of construction by, or at the
direction of the Superintendent of Public Works. The cost of any re-inspection
of any required land improvement found to be faulty or not in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications shall be paid by the subdivider to the
city. The testing of any concrete, asphalt, soil or other materials, and
workmanship shall be done at the direction of the city, and at the expense of
the subdivider.
(1975 Code, § 34.33)
§ 153.107 RELEASE OF BOND.
   The subdivider’s bond or guarantee collateral shall be released only upon
fulfillment of the following conditions:
   (A)   The completion of all required land improvements;
   (B)   The submission of four copies of acceptable “as built” drawings of all
land improvements;
   (C)   An affidavit to the effect that:
      (1)   All materials, labor and other costs have been paid, or
arrangements have been made for payment so as to hold the city free from any
obligations for payment of any costs of the land improvements; and
      (2)   That the subdivider accepts responsibility for the maintenance and
repair of all land improvements for one year after the date of the acceptance
resolution by the City Council.
   (D)   Final acceptance by resolution, by the City Council of land
improvements.
(1975 Code, § 34.34)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 34.35)
APPENDIX A: CHECKLISTS
   §
1   Checklist for preliminary plan
   §
2   Checklist for engineering plans
   §
3   Checklist for final plat
§ 1 CHECKLIST FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN.
___________________________   (Name of Subdivision)
___________________________   (Date of Submission)
___________________________   (Due date of recommendation (45) days)
NOTE: To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his engineer shall:
(1)   Insert the required information.
(2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his initials in
all spaces where applicable.
(3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers “not applicable” to
this particular subdivision by the abbreviation “N.A.”)
   ___ 1.   Six (6) copies of preliminary plan submitted.
   ___ 2.   Plans are on 24 x 36 sheets.
   ___ 3.   Plan scale is not less than 1” to 100’.
   ___ 4.   Minimum profile scale is 1” to 100’ horizontal and 1” to 10’
vertical.
   ___ 5.   A title sheet is included with each set of preliminary plans.
   ___ 6.   Name of proposed subdivision shown.
   ___ 7.   Location given by town, range, section, or other legal description.
   ___ 8.   Name and address of owner, trust, corporation, or subdivider having
control of project is shown.
   ___ 9.   Name and seal of registered engineer or surveyor who prepared
topographic survey is shown.
   ___ 10. Name and address of the designer of the plan is shown.
   ___ 11. North direction is shown.
   ___ 12. Date of preparation and date of revision, if any, is shown.
   ___ 13. A location map is included indicating:
      ___ a.   A scale of not less than 1” to 1000’.
      ___ b.   Boundary lines of adjoining land within an area bounded by the
nearest arterial streets or other natural boundaries.
      ___ c.   Use of surrounding land.
      ___ d.   Ownership of the surrounding land.
      ___ e.   Alignment of existing streets.
      ___ f.   Section and corporate lines.
   ___ 14.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision is clearly shown.
   ___ 15.   Total approximate acreage is shown.
   ___ 16.   Existing zoning classification is indicated.
   ___ 17.   The following existing items, if within the boundaries of the
subdivision, or located 100’ or less outside the boundaries are shown:
      ___ a.   Previously platted streets and other rights-of-way, with
improvements, if any, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   widths
         ___ 3.   names
      ___ b.   Railroad, rights-of-way, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   dimensions
      ___ c.   Utility rights-of-way, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   widths
         ___ 3.   type
            ___ a.   sewer
            ___ b.   water
            ___ c.   electric
            ___ d.   other
      ___ d.   Parks and other open spaces indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   area
      ___ e.   Easements, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   widths
         ___ 3.   purpose
      ___ f.   Permanent buildings and structures, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   setback lines
         ___ 3.   names of owners
      ___ g.   Section and corporate lines.
      ___ h.   Sanitary sewers, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   size
         ___ 3.   manholes
         ___ 4.   invert elevations at manholes
      ___ i.   Water mains, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   size
         ___ 3.   valves, indicating:
            ___ a.   valve manhole, or
            ___ b.   valve box
         ___ 4.   fire hydrants, and auxiliary valves.
      ___ j.   Culverts, indicating:
         ___ 1.   type
         ___ 2.   location
         ___ 3.   size
         ___ 4.   invert elevations
      ___ k.   Storm sewers, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   size
         ___ 3.   catch basins
         ___ 4.   invert elevations
      ___l.   Watercourses, indicating:
         ___ 1.   type
         ___ 2.   high water width and elevation
         ___ 3.   width of easement
         ___ 4.   location of easement
      ___ m.   Marshes, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   dimensions
         ___ 3.   soil bearing capacity
      ___ n.   Rock outcrops, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   dimensions
      ___ o.   Monuments and survey markers, indicating:
         ___ 1.   location
         ___ 2.   type
   ___ 18.   Topographic data is given in feet above mean sea level within the
tract and to a distance of 100’ beyond, indicating:
      ___ a.   Existing contours at vertical intervals of not more than 2’.
      ___ b.   Proposed contours at vertical intervals of not more than 2’.
      ___ c.   Bench marks, indicating:
            ___ 1.   location
            ___ 2.   description
            ___ 3.   elevation
   ___ 19.   Soil bearing data is given, if required by the superintendent of
public works, indicating:
      ___ a.   location of tests.
      ___ b.   Depth of tests.
      ___ c.   Soil bearing capacity
      ___ d.   Moisture content.
   ___ 20.   The following proposed items, if within the boundaries of the
subdivision or located 100’ or less outside the boundaries are shown:
      ___ a.   Layout of streets, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Collector streets, indicating:
            ___ a.   80’ right-of-way width.
            ___ b.   38’ roadway width, back to back of curbs.
         ___ 2.   Minor streets indicating:
            ___ a.   60’ right-of-way width.
            ___ b.   32’ roadway width, back to back of curbs.
         ___ 3.   Cul-de-sac streets, indicating:
            ___ a.   66’ right-of-way width.
            ___ b.   32’ roadway width, back to back of curbs.
            ___ c.   The length does not exceed 500’ unless there are less than
16 lots abutting the cul-de-sac street.
            ___ d.   Terminus is circular, or nearly so, and right-of-way is at
least 120’ in diameter.
            ___ e.   Terminus roadway width is 80* in diameter.
         ___ 4.   Marginal access street, indicating:
            ___ a.   40’ right-of-way width
            ___ b.   24’ roadway width back to back of curbs
         ___ 5.   Through street shown extended to boundaries of subdivision.
         ___ 6.   Storm water runoff pattern on paving.
      ___ b.   Names of streets.
         ___ 1.   Not duplicating the name of any street heretofore used in the
City or its environs, unless the street is an extension of an already existing
street, in which case, the name shall be used.
         ___ 2.   Streets are on the west side of the river.
         ___ 3.   Avenues are on the east side of the river.
      ___ c.   Street improvement plan showing location of all new street
improvements, including those to the center line of previously dedicated
rights-of-way abutting the subdivision, in accordance with present city
standards.
      ___ d.   Utility easements:
         ___ 1.   Located at the rear of each lot and other necessary
locations.
         ___ 2.   Not less than 10” in width on each lot.
         ___ 3.   Purpose is indicated.
         ___ 4.   Storm water runoff is indicated.
      ___ e.   Centerline profiles of all streets showing gradients not less
than 0.4 percent and not more than:
         ___ 1.   5% on collector streets.
         ___ 2.   7% on minor streets.
      ___ f.   Pedestrian ways, when required, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Location at approximately the center of blocks in excess of
900’ in length.
         ___ 2.   Width not less than 12’.
         ___ 3.   Shrub or tree hedge at side boundary lines.
      ___ g.   Block layout, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Blocks do not exceed 1200’ in length.
         ___ 2.   Additional access ways to parks, schools, etc., are shown in
accordance with the Plan Commission’s requirements.
         ___ 3.   Blocks fit readily into the overall plan of the subdivision,
with due consideration given to:
            ___ a.   topographical conditions
            ___ b.   lot planning
            ___ c.   traffic flow pattern
            ___ d.   public open space areas
         ___ 4.   Block numbers.
         ___ 5.   Blocks intended for commercial, industrial or institutional
use are so designated.
      ___ h.   Lot layout, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Lot dimensions
         ___ 2.   Lot areas, not less than those stipulated in the appropriated
district regulations of the zoning code. (Areas may be listed by schedule)
         ___ 3.   Building setback lines shown and properly dimensioned.
         ___ 4.   Proposed land use.
         ___ 5.   Lot numbers
         ___ 6.   Corner lots are sufficiently larger than interior lots to
allow maintenance of building setback lines on both street frontages and still
allow a buildable width equal to that of the smallest interior lot in the block
(minimum width 90’).
         ___ 7.   All lots abut a publicly dedicated street for a distance of
not less than the minimum width of the lot.
         ___ 8.   Lots are as nearly rectangular in shape as is practicable.
         ___ 9.   Lots are not less than 100’ in depth, nor 70’ in width.
      ___ 10.   Lot lines are substantially at right angles to the street lines
and radial to curved street lines.
      ___ 11.   Double frontage lots only where:
            ___ a.   lots back upon an arterial street and front on an access
street.
            ___ b.   topographic or other conditions make subdividing otherwise
unreasonable.
            ___ c.   lots can be made an additional 20’ deeper than average.
            ___ d.   a protective screen planting is indicated on one frontage.
         ___ 12.   Lots abutting or traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel-way, channel, or stream, indicate:
            ___ a.   additional width and depth to provide an acceptable
building site.
            ___ b.   width of easement is at least 15’ wider on each side of
water at high water level.
      ___ 13.   Due regard for natural features, such as:
            ___ a.   trees
            ___ b.   watercourses
            ___ c.   historic items
            ___d.   other similar conditions
      ___ i.   Areas intended to be dedicated for public use indicating:
         ___ 1.   Plan conforms to general development plan of the city
         ___ 2.   Purpose
         ___ 3.   Acreage
      ___ j.   Source of domestic water supply, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Connection to existing water mains
         ___ 2.   Location of site for community water plant,
      ___ k.   Provision for sewage disposal, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Connection to existing sanitary sewer mains.
         ___ 2.   Location of site for community sewage disposal plant.
      ___ l.   School sites, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Location
         ___ 2.   Dimensions
         ___ 3.   Acreage
      ___ m.   Topographic information, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Proposed changes in elevation of land show that any flooding
would be relieved.
         ___ 2.   Adequate installation of storm sewers would remove the
possibility of flooding.
      ___ n.   Sanitary sewer layout, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Location
         ___ 2.   Size
         ___ 3.   Invert elevations at manholes
         ___ 4.   Manhole locations
      ___o.   Water main layout, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Location
         ___ 2.   Size
         ___ 3.   Looped pattern where practicable
         ___ 4.   Fire hydrants, spaced apart not more than 400’
      ___ p.   Storm sewer layout, indicating:
         ___ 1.   Location
         ___ 2.   Catch basins at not more than 600’ intervals.
         ___ 3.   Storm water is not carried across or around any intersection.
         ___ 4.   Surface water drainage pattern for each individual lot and
block.
      ___q.   Street light layout, indicating: (not required)
         ___ 1.   Locations and typical street light detail, or
         ___ 2.   Statement by subdivider that street lights will be installed
in accordance with city standards.
   ___ 21.   An outline of proposed covenants accompanies the plans, indicating
the intention of the subdivider to have the covenants recorded with the final
plat.
      ___ a.   Protective against obstruction of drainage easements.
   ___ 22.   Typical street cross section showing base construction, surfacing,
concrete curb and sidewalk in accordance with the land improvements code.
   ___ 23.   Indication that sidewalks will be installed along all lot lines
coincidental with street rights-of-way.
   ___ 24.   Indication on drawing or by certificate that subdivider is aware
of his responsibility for installation of street signs and for seeding and tree
planting in all parkways.
COMPLETED BY: ______________________________ (NAME)
_______________________________________________________ (ADDRESS)
___________________ (DATE )
REVIEWED BY:    __________________________________________
               SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
___________________(DATE)
CONSIDERED BY PLAN COMMISSION ON ___________________ (DATE)
____________________________ (CHAIRMAN)
(1975 Code, § 34.36)
§ 2 CHECKLIST FOR ENGINEERING PLANS.
______________________________________   (Name of Subdivision)
______________________________________   (Date of Submission)
______________________________________   (Due Date of Recommendation [45] days)
NOTE: To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his engineer shall:
(1)   Insert the required information.
(2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his initials in
all spaces where applicable.
(3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers “not applicable” to
this particular subdivision by the abbreviation, “N.A.”)
   ___ 1.   Plans have been submitted within twelve (12) months of the date of
approval by the City Council of the preliminary plan.
   ___ 2.   Four (4) copies of the engineering plans have been submitted.
   ___ 3.   Plans are on 24” x 36” sheets.
   ___ 4.   Title sheet is included with each set of plans, and includes:
      ___ a.   Name of subdivision and unit number.
      ___ b.   Type of work covered.
      ___ c.   Location map showing relation of area to be improved to existing
streets.
      ___ d.   An index of sheets.
      ___ e.   A summary of quantities.
      ___ f.   Name, address, and seal of registered engineer preparing the
plans.
      ___ g.   Bate of preparation and revisions, if any, is shown.
   ___ 5.   Plan and profiles are on Federal Aid sheets, plate I or II.
      ___ a.   Horizontal scale is not less than one (1”) inch to fifty (50’)
feet.
      ___ b.   Vertical scale is no less than one (1”) inch to five (5’) feet.
   ___ 6.   Cross sections are plotted on Federal Aid sheets, plate III.
      ___ a.   Horizontal and vertical scales no less than one (1”) inch to ten
(10’) feet.
   ___ 7.   North direction is shown for each separate plan view.
   ___ 8.   An adequate number of bench marks are shown with elevations
referenced to mean sea level, to facilitate checking of elevations without more
than one setup of a surveyor’s level.
   ___ 9.   Delineation is shown of all easements necessary to serve all lots
with underground and overhead utilities, and to allow for perpetual maintenance
of these facilities.
   ___ 10.   An application for state sanitary water board permit for the
sanitary sewer extension accompanies the plans.
   ___ 11.   Sanitary sewer plans and specifications are complete and conform
to the standards and requirements of the codes applicable thereto and denote
all of the following:
      ___ a.   All properties in the subdivision are served and house service
connections are provided.
      ___ b.   The minimum size main is 8” I.D.
      ___ c.   The plan conforms to the overall city plan for any trunk sewers
traversing the subdivision.
      ___ d.   The distance between manholes does not exceed 400’.
      ___ e.   The invert elevation of each manhole is shown.
      ___ f .   The grade of each section of sewer is shown by percentage in
accordance with accepted engineering practice.
      ___ g.   Extra strength pipe and extra strength manhole wall construction
is specified and shown on the plans and in the estimates of quantities where
the depth of installation exceeds 12’.
      ___ h.   Profile of existing and proposed ground surfaces.
      ___ i.   Risers are shown for individual house service laterals where
depths of main exceeds 12’.
      ___ j.   Pipe joints are of permitted type.
      ___ k.   Minimum manhole cover weights are correct.
         ___ 1.   540 pounds in collector streets.
         ___ 2.   400 pounds in minor and cul-de-sac streets.
         ___ 3.   335 pounds in rear-lot easements.
      ___ l.   Specifications include provisions for checking on infiltration
or exfiltration
         ___ 1.   Standard manhole
         ___ 2.   Drop manhole
         ___ 3.   Standard manhole cover
         ___ 4.   Standard riser
         ___ 5.   Standard service installation
         ___ 6.   Concrete cradle.
   ___ 12.   An application for State Department of Public Health approval of
the water main installation accompanies the plans.
   ___ 13.   Water distribution plans and specifications are complete and
conform to the codes applicable thereto and include all of the following:
      ___ a.   All properties in the subdivision are served and provisions are
made for service connections within the property lines.
      ___ b.   The minimum size main is 6” I.D.
      ___ c.   The plan conforms to the city’s overall plan for any trunk lines
which might traverse the subdivision.
      ___ d.   Valve and hydrant spacing and location conform to the approved
preliminary plan.
      ___ e.   Materials and joint specifications comply with the city’s
standards.
      ___ f.   Specifications include provisions for testing and sterilization
of all new water distribution facilities.
         ___ 1.   Valve cover.
         ___ 2.   Standard cover.
         ___ 3.   Standard hydrant installation.
   ___ 14.   Street plans, including storm sewers, are complete and conform to
the codes applicable thereto and include all of the following:
      ___ a.   The location of streets and width of pavements conform to those
indicated on the approved preliminary plan.
      ___ b.   Plan shows curb, gutter and sidewalk locations, and includes the
following information:
         ___ 1.   Corner curb radius is not less than 16’.
         ___ 2.   Curve data for all horizontal curves.
         ___ 3.   Direction of flow along all curbs.
         ___ 4.   No surface water is carried across or around any street
intersection, nor for a distance greater than 600’.
      ___ c.   Cross sections are submitted as necessary to indicate
feasibility of proposed street elevations in relation to adjacent lot
elevations, and include sidewalk location.
      ___ d.   Profiles are submitted for all paving centerlines and storm
sewers and indicate:
         ___ 1.   Catch basin invert elevations.
         ___ 2.   Minimum pipe size is 12” I.D. except that a lead for a single
inlet may be 10” I.D.
         ___ 3.   The grade of each section of sewer is shown, by percentage in
accordance with accepted engineering practice.
         ___ 4.   Storm sewer elevations do not conflict with any other
underground utilities.
         ___ 5.   Storm sewer is connected with an adequate outfall.
         ___ 6.   Curve data is given for vertical road curves.
      ___ e.   The storm sewer system is designed to provide sufficient
capacity for the draining of upland areas contributing to the storm water
runoff on the street.
         ___ 1.   Storm sewer design computations are submitted with plans.
      ___ f.   A surface water drainage pattern is shown for each block.
      ___ g.   Material specifications comply with city standards and include:
         ___ 1.   Paving base materials
         ___ 2.   Paving surface materials
         ___ 3.   Concrete
         ___ 4.   Pipe materials
      ___ h.   Typical cross sections and details include the following:
         ___ 1.   Collector street
         ___ 2.   Minor or cul-de-sac street
         ___ 3.   Concrete curb and gutter
         ___ 4.   Concrete sidewalk
         ___ 5.   Standard manhole
         ___ 6.   Standard cover
         ___ 7.   Catch basin
   ___ 15.   Street light plans are complete and include the following: (Not
Required)
      ___ a.   Pole locations
      ___ b.   Spacing
      ___ c.   Average maintained footcandle illumination (calculated).
         ___ 1.   type of base and pole
         ___ 2.   bracket or arm
         ___ 3.   luminaire, indicating type of lamp and wattage
         ___ 4.   mounting height
   ___ 16.   Parkway improvement specifications are complete and include
provisions for:
      ___ a.   Removal of stumps, trees that cannot be saved, boulders, and all
other similar items.
      ___ b.   Grading, installation of topsoil, and seeding or sodding.
   ___ 17.   Street signs are shown to be installed at all street intersections
not previously marked.
COMPLETED BY: _______________________________ (NAME)
_________________________________________________________________ (ADDRESS)
_____________________ (DATE)
REVIEWED BY:   ______________________________________________
            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
_____________________ (DATE)
CONSIDERED BY PLAN COMMISSION ON __________________ (DATE)
_______________________________________ (CHAIRMAN)
(1975 Code, § 34.37)
§ 3 CHECKLIST FOR FINAL PLAT.
_____________________________ (Name of Subdivision)
_____________________________ (Date of Submission)
_____________________________ (Due date of recommendation [30] days)
NOTE: To properly execute this checklist, the subdivider or his engineer shall:
(1)   Insert the required information.
(2)   Denote compliance with applicable ordinances by placing his initials in
all spaces where applicable.
(3)   Denote those items which the subdivider considers “not applicable” to
this particular subdivision by the abbreviation, “N.A.”)
   ___ 1.   Plat has been submitted within six (6) months after the approval of
the engineering plans.
   ___ 2.   Plat has been submitted within three (3) years after the approval
of the preliminary plan unless an extension of time has been requested of and
granted by the City Council).
   ___ 3.   One original drawing of the final plat has been submitted.
   ___ 4.   One transparency print of the final plat has been submitted.
   ___ 5.   Four (4) copies of the final plat have been submitted.
   ___ 6.   Plat is drawn with waterproof India ink on heavy linen tracing
cloth or equal.
   ___ 7.   North direction is shown.
   ___ 8.   Scale is shown (minimum 1” equals 100’).
   ___ 9.   Section corners and section lines «re accurately tied into
subdivision by distances and angles.
   ___ 10.   Official survey monuments are shown as required.
   ___ 11.   All necessary easements are shown and dimensioned.
   ___ 12.   Building setback lines are shown and dimensioned in accordance
with the zoning code.
   ___ 13.   Lot areas are in accordance with the applicable zoning
regulations.
   ___ 14.   Street names are shown.
   ___ 15.   Areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use are shown and
described and the purpose is designated.
   ___ 16.   Protective covenants are lettered on the plat or are appropriately
referenced.
   ___ 17.   Required certificates are shown and signed.
      ___ a.   Surveyor’s certificates (including legal description).
      ___ b.   Owner’s certificate.
      ___ c.   Notary certificate.
      ___ d.   County Clerk certificate.
      ___ e.   Certificate as to special assessments.
      ___ f.   Certificate of County Superintendent of Highways.
      ___ g.   Certificate of public works and buildings.
   ___ 18.   Other required certificates are shown.
      ___ a.   Plan Commission certificate.
      ___ b.   Superintendent of Public Works Certificate.
      ___ c.   City Council certificate.
   ___ 19.   The following items have been submitted with the final plat:
      ___ a.   Detailed specifications for all required land improvements not
previously submitted and approved with the engineering plans.
      ___ b.   A copy of the State Sanitary Water Board permit for the sanitary
sewer installation.
      ___ c.   A copy of the State Department of Public Health approval of the
water main installation.
      ___ d.   An affidavit by the subdivider acknowledging responsibility for
the proper installation of all required land improvements.
      ___ e.   A certified estimate of cost of all required land improvements
prepared by a registered engineer.
      ___ f.   A description of the bond or guarantee of collateral intended to
be submitted after contingent approval is granted by the City Council.
COMPLETED BY: ______________________________________ (NAME)
__________________________________________________________________ (ADDRESS)
____________________ (DATE)
REVIEWED BY:    ___________________________________________
            SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
____________________ (DATE)
CONSIDERED BY PLAN COMMISSION ON __________________ (DATE)
____________________________________________ (CHAIRMAN)
(1975 Code, § 34.38)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Title
   
154.03   Jurisdiction
   
154.04   Interpretation and relation to other laws
   
154.05   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.06   Construction of terms
   
154.07   Definitions
Districts, Map
   
154.20   Districts
   
154.21   Zoning map district boundaries
   
154.22   Zoning upon annexation and pre-zoning
   
154.23   Minimum zone area
   
154.24   Affected property
   
154.25   Continuing existing uses
   
154.26   Repairs
   
154.27   Access and street frontage
   
154.28   Buildings on lot
   
154.29   Intrusions into yards
   
154.30   Exceptions to height limits
   
154.31   Accessory uses
   
154.32   Sewers and septic tank systems
District Regulations
   
154.45   Rural Agricultural (R-A) District
   
154.46   Single-Family Residential (R-1) District
   
154.47   General Residential (R-2) District
   
154.48   Mobile Home (M-H) District
   
154.49   General Commercial (C-1) District
   
154.50   Highway Commercial (C-2) District
   
154.51   Industrial (M) District
Other Regulations
   
154.65   Supplementary regulations for specific uses
   
154.66   Off-street parking and loading
   
154.67   Nonconformities
   
154.68   Special procedures and permits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance to establish zone districts and regulations governing the
development and use of land within the city, in order to preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety and welfare in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-
13-1 et seq.
(1975 Code, § 32-I.1)
§ 154.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Vienna, Illinois”.
(1975 Code, § 32-I.2)
§ 154.03 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the city.
(1975 Code, § 32-I.3)
§ 154.04 INTERPRETATION AND RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
city, and every requirement imposed herein shall be deemed minimal. Whenever
the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirement of any other
lawfully adopted and effective ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or
covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail. Regardless of any other
provision of this chapter, no land shall be used and no structure shall be
erected or maintained in violation of any duly constituted laws of the state or
of the United States of America.
(1975 Code, § 32-I.4)
§ 154.05 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no official,
City Council member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of duties under
this chapter (See “Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity
Act”, 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.). Any suit brought against any official, City
Council member, agent or employee of the city, as a result of any act required
or permitted in the discharge of duties under this chapter, shall be defended
by the City Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1975 Code, § 32-I.5)
§ 154.06 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   In constructing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter,
the following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall have the meaning respectively ascribed to them
in §
154.07, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms not defined in §
154.07 shall have their standard English dictionary meanings.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (C)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   (D)   The term “shall” is mandatory; the term “may” is discretionary.
   (E)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
   (F)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (G)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1975 Code, § 32-II.1)
§ 154.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING. As applied to lots, means having a common line or district line,
or so located in relation to each other that there would be a common lot line
or district line but for the existence of a street, alley or other public
right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7ee9406ef575256fd37352b64d35c8beaacbec3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1522.jpg]
 
   ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing
vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading area.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal structure or use served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person or organization assigned to administer the
ordinance by the City Council.
   AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse, and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access/egress from parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference), properly affected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, means having a common wall and/or common
roof.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way), or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of Vienna, Illinois.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.
      (1)   The vertical distance measured from the average grade at the front
wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of flat roof or to the
deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge
for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
      (2)   Chimneys, towers, cooling towers and similar projections shall not
be included in calculating BUILDING HEIGHT.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating
the minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right-of-way line.
   CITY. The City of Vienna, Illinois.
   CLINIC. An establishment where licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
   CLUB/LODGE. A nonprofit association of persons who are bonafide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
   CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   DAY CARE CENTER. See NURSERY SCHOOL.
   DETACHED. As applied to buildings, means surrounded by yards on the same lot
as the building.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefore.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory subject to this chapter wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots and uses under the terms of this chapter.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
off-street parking area.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hospitals, nursing homes,
hotels, motels or other accommodations for the transient public.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing two or
more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one dwelling unit and
intended for the occupancy of one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain limited
purposes.
   ENCLOSED. As applied to a building, means covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. To build, construct.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One person, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
legal adoption, or not more than three unrelated persons, maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA
includes basement floors; attic floor space; halls, closets, stairwells; space
devoted to mechanical equipment; and enclosed porches.
   FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
   HEREAFTER. Any time after the effective date of this chapter.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for gain
entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   HOSPITAL. An institution devoted, on an around-the-clock basis, to the
maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care of
members of the general public suffering from disease, injury or other abnormal
physical conditions. The term HOSPITAL as used in this chapter includes
sanitariums, but excludes institutions operating solely for the treatment of
insane persons, drug addicts or alcoholics, and convalescent/nursing homes.
   IMMOBILIZE. As applied to a mobile home, means to remove the wheels, tongue
and hitch and/or to place on a permanent foundation.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of way (generally
streets) meet.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises at which dogs, cats or other household
domestic animals are kept on a regular basis for the purpose of sale, adoption,
breeding or training, and for which a fee is charged.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of transfer of ownership or development. A LOT may or may not
coincide with a “lot of record”.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon street rights-of-way, but no alleys or other minor ways. Both
such lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7ee9406ef575256fd37352b64d35c8beaacbec3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1524.jpg]
 
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel street rights-of-way. Both lot lines shall be
deemed front lot lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7ee9406ef575256fd37352b64d35c8beaacbec3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1526.jpg]
 
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary abutting the street right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7ee9406ef575256fd37352b64d35c8beaacbec3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1528.jpg]
 
   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS. Refers to the lot area, width and depth requirements
of the applicable district.
   LOT WIDTH. The average horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to
the side lot lines.
   MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep the said structure in sound condition.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured structure originally designed to permit its
transport on wheels, for occupancy and use as a dwelling by persons, whether or
not it is actually so occupied or used at a given time or location.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A lot(s) not less than two acres in area in single
ownership/control, developed with facilities for accommodating occupied mobile
homes in accordance with the requirements of the city’s mobile home
regulations.
   MOBILE HOME STANDARDS. The part of the mobile home space beneath a mobile
home that includes a concrete slab or runners on which the home is placed.
   NONCONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure or use, means lawfully
existing on the effective date of this chapter, but not in compliance with
applicable provisions thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any thing, condition or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
   NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment for the part-time care and/or instruction
at any time of day of four or more unrelated children of pre-elementary school
age.
   NURSING HOME. A building used as medical care facility for persons who need
long term nursing care and medical services, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
   OFFICE. Any building or portion thereof in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
   PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF-STREET. Land that is improved in accordance with this
chapter and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of
charge or for compensation. An OFF-STREET PARKING AREA, depending on the
circumstances of its use, is either a principal use or an accessory use.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area at least 20 feet long and ten feet wide
within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district, provided it conforms with all the requirements applicable
to said district.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization or corporate body.
   PET BOARDING FACILITY. An animal facility used for the care and temporary
boarding (including daycare) of dogs and cats and household domestic animals in
return for consideration, not including an animal hospital which only boards
animals receiving medical treatment.
   PLOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
   PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
   RECONSTRUCT. As applied to nonconforming structures, means to rebuild after
partial or total destruction.
   RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
   REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
   RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or to another unit or government for streets and alleys.
   SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
   SETBACK. The distance between the front lot line and the building line, or
between a side or rear lot line and that side of the structure which faces such
lot line, or between the appropriate lot line and the nearest boundary of the
area of operation which is approximately parallel to such lot line.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE. See DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.
   SKIRTING. The covering affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
   SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to regulate the development/operation of a special use.
   STABLE. A structure, situated on the same lot as a dwelling, and designed or
used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but
not for hire.
   STREET.
      (1)   A public or private way for motor vehicle travel.
      (2)   The term STREET includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway,
throughway, road, pike, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and
similar designations, but excludes an alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STREET, PRIVATE. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to the city or other public entity.
   STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground.
      (2)   All buildings are STRUCTURES, but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and valid for not more than one year, which allows the erection or
occupation of a temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The physical relief features or surface configuration of an
area.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or structure thereon is
designed, occupied or used.
   USE VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
   UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant and the like.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks
or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   WHOLESALE. Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
   YARD. Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in
this chapter and this is located on the same lot as the principal building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot lines
and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines and
the rear yard line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side yard line and side lot line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of said yard.
   ZONING MAP. The map and any amendments thereto designating zoning districts,
and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(1975 Code, § 32-II.2) (Ord. 2001-02, passed 2-7-2001; Ord. 16-01, passed 4-6-
2016)
DISTRICTS, MAP
§ 154.20 DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   R-A Rural Agricultural District;
   (B)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (C)   R-2 General Residential District;
   (D)   MH Mobile Home Park District;
   (E)   C-1 General Commercial;
   (F)   C-2 Highway Commercial; and
   (G)   I Industrial.
(1975 Code, § 32-III.1)
§ 154.21 ZONING MAP DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are established on a map entitled
“Zone District Map, City of Vienna, Illinois” which accompanies and is a part
of this chapter. District boundary lines follow lot lines, centerlines of
streets and alleys, railroad rights-of-way, or other similar natural features.
Questions concerning the exact location of district boundaries shall be
determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals. In accordance with state law, if any
changes are made in the zoning districts or regulations during a calendar year,
the city shall publish the revised official zoning map no later than March 31
of the following year.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-2)
§ 154.22 ZONING UPON ANNEXATION AND PRE-ZONING.
   (A)   Any territory annexed to the city is upon such annexation,
automatically zoned R-A, Rural Agricultural, until otherwise zoned.
   (B)   Property owners seeking to have their property annexed to the city may
petition the City Council to pre-zone such territory.
   (C)   In assigning a zone district designation to the subject territory, any
zone classification or combination of classifications may be utilized so long
as said classifications are consistent with the city’s General Plan.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-3)
§ 154.23 MINIMUM ZONE AREA.
   In order to prevent “spot” zoning, the smallest total area of contiguous
parcels that can properly be given a district designation is as follows.
Table 1: Minimum Zone District Areas
District Minimum Zone District
Table 1: Minimum Zone District Areas
District                     Minimum Zone District
A. Rural-Agriculture         3 acres
B. Single-Family Residential 1 acre
C. General Residential       1 acre
D. Mobile Home Park          1 acre
E. General Commercial        1 acre
F. Highway Commercial        1 acre
G. Industrial                1 acre
 
(1975 Code, § 32-III-4)
§ 154.24 AFFECTED PROPERTY.
   Except as specially provided in this chapter, no building, structure or land
shall be used and no building, structure or part thereof shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered or repaired, except in
conformity with this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-5)
§ 154.25 CONTINUING EXISTING USES.
   Any use lawfully existing at the time of enactment of the ordinance, shall
be allowed to continue as a nonconforming use, subject to the provision of §
154.67.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-6)
§ 154.26 REPAIRS.
   Any part of any building or structure which is declared unsafe by the city
may be strengthened or restored to a safe condition.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-7)
§ 154.27 ACCESS AND STREET FRONTAGE.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts or has
permanent easement of access to a public or private street. Such lot abutment
or permanent easement of access shall not be less than 30 feet on a street.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.28 BUILDINGS ON LOT.
   Not more than one principal detached residential dwelling shall be located
on a lot, nor shall any principal detached residential dwelling be located on
the same lot with any other principal building.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-9)
§ 154.29 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following features of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without violating the minimum setback
requirements.
Table 2: Maximum Yard Intrusions
Feature Maximum Intrusion
        Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Table 2: Maximum Yard Intrusions
Feature                                  Maximum Intrusion
                                         Front Yard     Side Yard Rear Yard
Cornices, chimneys and architectural     2 feet         None      2 feet
features
Fire escapes                             4 feet         None      4 feet
Patios (at ground level)                 Not applicable No limit  No limit
Unenclosed porches (elevated 6” or more6 feet         6 feet    6 feet
Balconies                                4 feet         4 feet    4 feet
Roof overhangings                        4 feet         Four feet 4 feet
 
(1975 Code, § 32-III-10)
§ 154.30 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, church spires, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas and other necessary appurtenances
commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to exceed the
maximum height limitation of the district in which they are located if they
comply with all other pertinent city ordinances.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by intersecting streets lines and a line joining those street lines at
points 30 feet from the point of intersection, no natural or human-made
obstruction shall intrude into the air space that is between two and ten feet
above the level of the adjacent street.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-11)
§ 154.31 ACCESSORY USES.
   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning district
if such use:
   (A)   Meets the definition of “accessory use” found in §
154.07;
   (B)   Is accessory to a principal structure or use that is allowed in a
particular zoning district as a permitted or special use; and
   (C)   Is in compliance with the restrictions set forth as follows:
      (1)   Height: No accessory use shall be higher than
         (a)   Fifteen feet in any residential district; or
         (b)   Twenty-five feet in any other zoning district except the Rural
Agricultural District where, due to the special needs of farm operations, there
shall be no height limit on accessory structures.
      (2)   Setbacks: no accessory use shall be located in any part of a
required yard excepting that in residential zone districts, an accessory use
may be located as close as three feet to a side or rear lot line when said
structure is also located on the rear one-third of the subject lot.
      (3)   Yard coverage: in any residential district, accessory uses shall
not cover more than 30% of a required rear yard.
      (4)   Use as a dwelling: use of an accessory structure as a dwelling is
prohibited in the city.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-12)
§ 154.32 SEWERS AND SEPTIC TANK SYSTEMS.
   In all districts, property owners of all buildings and places where people
live, work or assemble shall provide for the sanitary disposal of all sewage in
accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Whenever the city sewage system is available within a distance of 200
feet or less measured from the property line closest to the sewage system, all
sewage shall be discharged into the city system. The requirement applies
regardless of the availability of a private sewage system which may already
exist or which may be more convenient.
   (B)   Whenever the city sewage is not located within the distance described
above, a private sewage system shall be installed and used. All private sewage
systems shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in conformity
with the following requirements:
      (1)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/
1 through 24, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Code No. 4.002, being 77 Ill. Adm.
Code 905, promulgated by the Director of the State Department of Public Health,
as amended from time to time; and
      (3)   Pertinent, current regulations issued by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-13)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.45 RURAL AGRICULTURAL (R-A) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Agricultural exemption. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
exercised so as to impose regulations with respect to land used for
agricultural purposes, or with respect to the erection, maintenance, repair,
alterations, remodeling or extension of buildings or structures used or
intended for agricultural purposes upon such land, except that such buildings
for agricultural purposes shall be required to conform to building setback
lines. In the event that the land ceases to be used solely for agricultural
purposes, then and only then, shall the provisions of this chapter apply.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agricultural uses including farms, ranches and horticultural
enterprises;
      (2)   Commercial nurseries, greenhouses and temporary produce stands;
      (3)   Single-family residences;
      (4)   Contractors storage yards and facilities related to servicing
agricultural enterprises including spraying, trimming, fertilizing, tree
removal, drainage and/or crop harvesting and storage;
      (5)   Governmental facilities;
      (6)   Schools;
      (7)   Offices; and
      (8)   Private or public recreational facilities including golf courses.
   (C)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Agricultural implement sales;
      (2)   Animal hospitals and veterinary offices;
      (3)   Blacksmith and welding operations;
      (4)   Cemeteries;
      (5)   Churches;
      (6)   Mobile homes in conformance with §
154.48(E)(1);
      (7)   Horse keeping and the keeping of animals for agricultural projects,
hobbies or home occupations;
      (8)   Food and dairy product processing; and
      (9)   Nursing homes.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Uses and structures which are incidental or accessory
to any of the uses permitted in this zone. See §§
154.07 and
154.31.
   (E)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: one acre.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 25 feet, except farm structures
exclusive of farm dwelling.
      (3)   Minimum yard setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet from any property line adjoining any public
street;
         (b)   Side: five feet. Lots over 70 feet in width, side yards combined
must equal at least 15% of the total width with no single side yard less than
five feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet.
   (F)   Special restrictions within Rural-Agricultural District.
      (1)   One dwelling per lot. Not more than one dwelling unit shall be
erected or placed on any lot in the Rural-Agricultural District.
      (2)   Non-agricultural animal keeping.
         (a)   Horse keeping.
            1.   No horse keeping is permitted on any lot existing prior to the
adoption of this chapter which is less than 20,000 square feet.
            2.   Two horses are permitted on lots exceeding 20,000 square feet
but do not exceed 30,000 square feet. One additional horse is permitted for
each additional 5,000 square feet of lot area.
            3.   For the purposes of this section, two ponies shall count as
one horse, except that each pony in excess of four shall be counted as one
horse.
            4.   A foal less than one year old, maintained in the company of
its mother, will not be counted in determining compliance with this section.
            5.   Horses up to twice the number normally allowed on a parcel of
land may be kept on a temporary basis of up to one week but not more frequently
than every 30 days.
            6.   Any area where horses are kept shall not be less than 50 feet
from any habitable dwelling on the same parcel, 200 from any habitable dwelling
(s) on adjacent parcels, and 200 feet from any church, school, hospital/clinic
or where foods are processed, stored, kept, manufactured or served to the
public.
            7.   The design of the horse keeping facility will be reviewed by
the City Council as part of the special permit process.
         (b)   Other animal keeping for hobbies, agricultural projects or home
occupations.
            1.   Any area where animals other than horses are kept for hobby
purposes, agricultural projects or home occupations shall not be located within
200 feet of any habitable dwelling(s) on adjacent parcels, any church, school,
hospital clinic or where foods are processed, stored, kept, manufactured or
served to the public.
            2.   The design of any animal keeping facility shall be reviewed by
the City Council as part of the special permit process.
(1975 Code, § 32-III-IV)
§ 154.46 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Conventionally built single-family residences;
      (2)   Public parks and playgrounds; and
      (3)   Agricultural uses.
   (B)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Governmental uses;
      (3)   Schools;
      (4)   Utility sub-stations with screening;
      (5)   Home occupations consistent with §
154.65(C);
      (6)   Animal keeping consistent with the special use requirements of the
R-A District; and
      (7)   A day care center for the care of preschool age children.
   (C)   Accessory uses. Uses and structures which are incidental or accessory
to any of the uses permitted in this zone. See §§
154.07 and
154.31.
   (D)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 7,000 square feet.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 25 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yard setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet from any property line adjoining any public
street;
         (b)   Side: five feet. Lots over 70 feet in width, side yards combined
must equal 15% of total width with no single side yard less than five feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet.
(1975 Code, § 32-V) (Ord. 78-3, passed 2-6-1978)
§ 154.47 GENERAL RESIDENTIAL (R-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Permitted uses in the Single-Family Residential (R-1) District; and
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings.
   (B)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Mobile homes in conformance with §
154.48(E)(1);
      (2)   Churches;
      (3)   Governmental uses;
      (4)   Utility sub-stations with screening;
      (5)   Schools;
      (6)   Day care centers;
      (7)   Home occupations consistent with §
154.65(C);
      (8)   Clinics;
      (9)   Nursing homes, sanitariums and shelter care homes provided that no
penal or correctional inmates are housed therein; and
      (10)   Offices of civic, religious or charitable institutions; financial
or insurance companies; physicians, dentists, architects, engineers, attorneys,
real estate or allied professions provided that:
         (a)   Applicant can demonstrate adequate off-street parking
facilities;
         (b)   Selling of merchandise will not occur on the premises; and
         (c)   Structures originally constructed to serve as residences remain
unaltered.
   (C)   Accessory uses. The permitted accessory uses are those permitted in
the R-1 District.
   (D)   Area, height, setbacks and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 5,500 square feet or 3,000 square feet per family
in a multiple-family structure.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 25 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards and setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet;
         (b)   Side: five feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 60 feet.
(1975 Code, § 32-VI)
§ 154.48 MOBILE HOME (M-H) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Mobile homes located on individual lots.
      (2)   Mobile homes in a mobile home park configuration consisting of a
single lot or group of lots not exceeding two acres cumulatively share mobile
home densities do not exceed eight units per acre.
      (3)   Principally permitted uses in the R-2 District.
   (B)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Mobile home parks where mobile home densities exceed eight units
per acre.
      (2)   Governmental uses.
      (3)   Home occupations consistent with §
154.65(C).
   (C)   Accessory uses. The permitted accessory uses are those permitted in
the R-2 District.
   (D)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet or 3,000 square feet per family
in multiple-family structure.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 25 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards and setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet;
         (b)   Side: five feet; and
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet.
   (E)   Mobile home regulations.
      (1)   Mobile homes on individual lots.
         (a)   Not more than one mobile home shall be placed on any individual
lot, nor shall any mobile home be placed on any individual lot wherein another
principal building exists.
         (b)   Anchors capable of withstanding a vertical tension force of
4,800 pounds shall be installed at the corners of every mobile home support
slab or as otherwise necessary for protection against high winds. Every mobile
home shall be tied down to such anchors.
         (c)   Every mobile home shall be skirted with a resistant material
vinyl, aluminum or other related material manufactured specifically for the
purpose of serving as mobile home skirting.
         (d)   Mobile homes shall comply with anchor and skirting requirements
within 45 days of set-up.
      (2)   Mobile home parks.
         (a)   Mobile home parks shall not be developed on a lot or any
combination of lots which are adjacent or about each other when the cumulative
land area exceeds two acres. A mobile home park minimally involves one acre.
         (b)   A coin-operated Laundromat which is solely intended to serve the
mobile home park may be permitted within the confines if applied for at the
time the special use permit is requested.
         (c)   Regulations stated in division (E)(1) above are also applicable
in mobile home parks.
(1975 Code, § 32-VII)
§ 154.49 GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-1) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Generally all retailing, wholesale and public and private
professional services provided within the confines of an office type
environment;
      (2)   Second floor residences so long as the first floor activities fit
all other applicable regulations set forth in this subchapter and that at least
one private parking stall is provided per residence;
      (3)   Clinics;
      (4)   Clubs and lodges;
      (5)   Commercial establishments;
      (6)   Offices;
      (7)   Service establishments;
      (8)   Governmental services;
      (9)   Accessory uses as permitted in §
154.31; and
      (10)   Churches.
   (B)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Automobile dismantling (junk yards);
      (2)   Utility sub-stations;
      (3)   Automobile banking facilities;
      (4)   Commercial establishments with drive-through accommodations;
      (5)   Taverns, bars or other establishments that serve alcoholic
beverages on the premises;
      (6)   Multiple-family dwelling;
      (7)   Combined retail or wholesale and manufacturing operators where the
manufacturing portion of the use is incidental to the principal use and
involves not more than five persons employed in the manufacturing activity;
      (8)   Drive-in theaters; and
      (9)   Coin-operated amusement centers or establishments where coin-
operated game machines occupy more than 15% of the floor area of the building.
   (C)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: none.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards and setbacks:
         (a)   Front: none when lot front abuts local street and 30 feet when
lot front abuts state highway;
         (b)   Side: None except when lot abuts residential district, then ten
feet is required; and
         (c)   Rear: none, except when lot abuts residential district, then ten
feet is required.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 30 feet.
(1975 Code, § 32-VIII)
§ 154.50 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL (C-2) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Restaurants;
      (2)   Motels; and
      (3)   Gasoline service stations.
   (B)   Uses requiring special permits. All permitted and special uses listed
in §
154.49.
   (C)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards and setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 100 feet from centerline of abutting street.
         (b)   Side: none, except when lot abuts residential district, then ten
feet is required.
         (c)   Rear: none, except when lot abuts residential district, then ten
feet is required.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet.
(1975 Code, § 32-IX)
§ 154.51 INDUSTRIAL (M) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Assembly, manufacturing or processing of any commodity from
semifinished materials provided explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live
animals are not involved;
      (2)   Governmental uses;
      (3)   Research and development facilities not involving explosives or
flammable gases or liquids;
      (4)   Service stations;
      (5)   Transportation facilities; and
      (6)   Warehousing or wholesaling of goods except explosives, flammable
gases or liquids, or live animals.
   (B)   Uses requiring special use permits.
      (1)   Assembly, manufacturing, processing, warehousing or wholesaling
involving explosives, flammable gases or liquids, or live animals.
      (2)   Automobile dismantling, but only in accordance with the following
conditions:
         (a)   No part of any automobile dismantling operation, which includes
any lot on which three or more inseparable vehicles are stored shall be located
closer than 500 feet to the boundary of any residential district; and
         (b)   All vehicles, parts and equipment shall be stored within a
completely enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall or solid
fence at least ten feet high or of a sufficient height greater than ten feet to
block the view from adjacent property.
      (3)   Research and development facilities involving explosives, or
flammable gases or liquids.
   (C)   Area, height, setback and yard regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Permitted height of main building: 60 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards and setbacks:
         (a)   Front: 10% of the lot width or depth or whichever is greater;
         (b)   Side: none, except ten feet when adjacent to any residential
districts; and
         (c)   Rear: none, except ten feet when adjacent to any residential
districts.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: none, except, as provided in §
154.27.
   (D)   Nuisance restrictions. No production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair, sale or storage of goods materials, or equipment shall
unreasonably interfere with the use, occupancy or enjoyment of neighboring
properties or the community as a whole. Unreasonable interferences include, but
are not limited to, excessive traffic congestion, loud or shrill noises,
excessive emission of smoke, emission of toxic gases, excessive glare and
noxious odors. All production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair
or storage activities shall be conducted entirely within enclosed buildings.
(1975 Code, § 32-X)
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 154.65 SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES.
   (A)   Applicability of section. This section establishes lot and structure
requirements, design standards and use limitations for specific, potentially
troublesome, structures and uses. These regulations apply to every zoning
district where the specified structure or use is permitted or allowed by
special use permit; but if more stringent regulations are applicable in any
particular district, such regulations shall prevail.
   (B)   Fences, walls.
      (1)   Barbed wire, electrical fences.
         (a)   In connection with agricultural uses, barbed wire and
electrically charged fences are permitted.
         (b)   In connection with nonagricultural uses, barbed wire and
electrically charged fences may be allowed by special use permit after a public
hearing.
      (2)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected within any
public right-of-way, except by written permission of the Administrator.
      (3)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in violation
of the Illinois Drainage Code (70 ILCS 605).
      (4)   Every fence, wall or other obstruction shall conform to the special
height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections (see § 154.30(B)).
   (C)   Home occupations.
      (1)   A HOME OCCUPATION means any business, profession or occupation
conducted for gain or support entirely within any dwelling or on any
residential premises.
      (2)   Within this municipality, every home occupation shall be considered
a special use.
      (3)   No home occupation shall be established or conducted except in
conformity with the following regulations.
         (a)   Unrelated employees. A home occupation shall employ no more than
one individual who is unrelated to the family residing on the premises.
         (b)   Floor space. The total area used of a home occupation conducted
in a dwelling shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area of said dwelling, or
300 square feet, whichever is less.
         (c)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district, a dwelling
shall not be altered to accommodate a home occupation in such a way as to
materially change the residential character of the building.
         (d)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor (unenclosed) storage on the premises of
equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
         (e)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
         (f)   Parking. See §
154.66.
         (g)   Signs. A home occupation shall display only one identification/
advertising sign. The area of said sign shall not exceed six square feet.
   (D)   Kennels.
      (1)   The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum area
of three acres.
      (2)   Every kennel shall be located at least 50 feet from a habitable
dwelling on the same lot, at least 200 feet from the nearest dwelling on an
adjacent lot, and at least 100 feet from any lot line.
      (3)   The design of the kennel will be approved by the City Council as
part of the special use permit process.
   (E)   Pet boarding facilities.
      (1)   A pet boarding facility shall be permitted in general commercial
(C-1) zoning districts only as an accessory use to a permitted primary pet-
oriented use.
      (2)   All pet boarding facilities shall:
         (a)   Be established only in conjunction with another pet-oriented
use, including a veterinary clinic, grooming parlor, pet oriented retail shop
or a pet daycare facility.
         (b)   Board all animals within a fully enclosed structure designed to
limit noise and odor.
         (c)   Provide boarding for no more than one animal per ten square feet
of indoor boarding area and not exceed ten boarded animals at a time.
         (d)   Have the design of the facility approved by the City Council as
part of the special use permit process.
      (3)   A per boarding facility may include an attached outdoor exercise
yard for animal exercise or animal recreation so long as such yard complies
with the following:
         (a)   Be located at least 200 feet from any residential zone category,
unless a conditional use permit is granted upon a demonstration that a lesser
separation will not adversely affect the surrounding properties.
         (b)   Be fully enclosed by a masonry wall, wooden or a vinyl fence at
least six feet in height.
         (c)   No animal shall be permitted in such yard between the hours of
9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless accompanied by a trainer or handler.
         (d)   No animal shall be kept in the yard for more than 12 hours per
day.
         (e)   Yard waste, including solid excrement shall be removed daily.
      (4)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
section shall be fined no more than $750 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
   (F)   Other animal keeping for hobby purposes outside the R-A District. The
design of the animal keeping facility will be approved by the City Council as
part of the special use permit process.
(1975 Code, § 32-XI) (Ord. 16-01, passed 4-6-2016)
§ 154.66 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Applicability of section.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with
this section for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Existing parking/loading facilities.
         (a)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the
same lot as the use served shall not be reduced, or further reduced, below the
requirements and standards for similar new structures or uses per this chapter.
         (b)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored, but
additional parking/loading facilities need not be provided.
         (c)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified
through the addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater seating
capacity and the like, additional parking and loading facilities commensurate
with such increases in use/intensity shall be provided.
         (d)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a
different use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required
herein for such new use.
   (B)   Parking lot standards.
      (1)   Spaces. Each required off-street parking space shall be at least
ten feet wide and 20 feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical
clearance. Every space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle
overhangs the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Interior aisles. Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently
wide to permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into
and out of the parking spaces. Aisles designated for two-way traffic shall be
at least 22 feet wide. One-way aisles designated for 60-degree parking shall be
at least 18 feet wide.
      (3)   Access ways.
         (a)   Parking lots shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from
a parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public
right-of-way.
         (b)   No access way to any parking lot shall be located within 30 feet
of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent hazards.
         (c)   Parking area access ways and public streets shall be aligned to
form, as closely as feasible, right angles.
         (d)   The access way to every parking lot containing 16 or more
parking spaces shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way drives, each
12 feet wide, are provided. The access way to any parking lot containing fewer
than 16 parking spaces shall be at least 18 feet wide.
      (4)   Surfacing. Parking lots shall be graded and improved with a
compacted stone base at least four inches thick. A permanent all-weather
surface is recommended. The City Council will permit the City Engineer to
recommend surface materials and make appropriate surface drainage
recommendations upon request.
   (C)   Location of off-street parking.
      (1)   For dwellings. Parking spaces accessory to dwellings shall be
located on the same lot as the dwelling. Such parking spaces shall not be
located in any front yard except in the driveway, but may be located in the
side or rear yards. Each parking space accessory to a multiple-family dwelling
shall be constructed so that no vehicle need to be moved in order to allow
another vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
      (2)   For commercial/industrial uses. In the Commercial or Industrial
Districts, off-street parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be
provided collectively; but only if the total number of spaces located together
is not less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use (see
division (E) below).
   (D)   Computation of required parking spaces. In computing the number of
parking spaces required by this chapter, the Administrator shall apply the
following rules.
      (1)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. EMPLOYEE PARKING means one parking space shall be required
per one and one-half employees, unless otherwise stated.
      (2)   In computing parking space requirements on the basis of building
floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
      (3)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 350 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
      (4)   If computation of the number of parking spaces required by this
chapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more shall
be counted as one space.
      (5)   No space or portion of thereof needed to satisfy the minimum
applicable requirement for number of off-street parking spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking spaces required for another structure or use.
   (E)   Design and location of off-street loading facilities. If provided, all
off-street facilities shall conform to the minimum standards indicated below.
      (1)   Size of space. Every off-street loading space shall be at least 12
feet wide and sufficiently long to accommodate the type of vehicle expected to
use the space. In no case shall a vehicle being loaded or unloaded overhang
into the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means
of vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12
feet wide.
      (3)   Surfacing. Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a
compacted stone base at least seven inches thick.
   (F)   Number of parking spaces required. Off-street parking spaces shall be
provided as indicated in the table below. For any use that is not listed in the
table, the same number of parking spaces shall be provided as is required for
the most similar listed use. The Administrator shall make the determination of
similarity.
Table 3: Parking Standards
Use Parking Spaces
Table 3: Parking Standards
Use                                     Parking Spaces
(a) Dwellings, lodgings
Hotels, motels, boarding houses, lodges 1 space per lodging unit, plus employee
                                        parking
Mobile homes                            2 spaces per mobile home
Multiple-family dwellings
1 bedroom or less                       1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
2 or more bedrooms                      2 spaces per dwelling unit
Single-family and two-family dwellings  2 spaces per dwelling unit
(b) Educational, institutional and
recreational
Churches                                1 space per 4 seats in the largest
                                        seating area
Hospitals                               1 space per 2 beds, plus employee
                                        parking
Libraries, museums                      1 space per 500 square feet of floor
                                        area
Nursing homes                           1 space per 5 beds
Schools
                                        1 space for every 20 students that the
Elementary and junior high              building is designed to accommodate,
                                        plus employee parking
(c) Commercial, office, service
All commercial, service or office uses, 1 space per 300 square feet of floor
unless specifically indicated otherwise area
below
Banks, savings and loans
Walk-in                                 1 space per 300 square feet of floor
                                        area, plus employee parking
Drive-in                                5 spaces per teller window
Beauty and barber shops                 2 spaces per chair, plus employee
                                        parking
Furniture and appliance stores          1 space per 600 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        1 space per 150 square feet of floor
Home occupations                        area devoted to the home occupation in
                                        addition to the parking requirements
                                        for the dwelling
                                        1 space per 200 square feet of floor
Offices, medical/dental                 area or 3 spaces per professional,
                                        whichever is greatest
                                        1 space per 5 seats plus 1 space per
Mortuaries                              funeral vehicle, but not less than 20
                                        spaces per chapel or state room
Restaurants, refreshment stands
                                        1 space per 4 seats or 1 space per 50
Sit-down                                square feet of floor area, whichever is
                                        greatest
Drive-in                                1 space per 25 square feet of building
                                        floor area
Service stations                        2 spaces per service stall, plus
                                        employee parking
                                        1 space per 4 seats or 1 space per 50
Taverns                                 square feet of floor area, whichever is
                                        greatest
Theaters
Indoor                                  1 space per 4 seats in the largest
                                        seating area
Drive-in                                On review by the Administrator
Vehicle sales (auto, boat, trailer and  1 space per 600 square feet of enclosed
the like)                               floor area, plus 1 space per 2,500
                                        square feet of open lot area
 
(1975 Code, § 32-XII)
§ 154.67 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Purpose of section. The requirements imposed by this chapter are
designed to guide the use of land by encouraging the development of structures
and uses that are compatible with the predominant character of each of the
various districts. Lots, structures and uses of land or structures that do not
conform to the requirements of the district in which they are located tend to
impede appropriate development. For example, nonconformities are frequently
responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking
facilities, the creation of nuisances and/or the lowering of property values.
The regulations of this section are intended to alleviate such existing/
potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of nonconformities.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size
(area, dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is located may,
nonetheless, be developed for any use permitted in that district if such vacant
lot:
         (a)   Was recorded in the County Recorder of Deeds Office prior to the
enactment of this chapter (or pertinent amendment thereto); and
         (b)   Is at least 30 feet wide.
      (2)   Two or more lots in common ownership: if two or more lots or
combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of
record and in common ownership on the effective date of this chapter, and if
one or more of those lots does not meet the minimum lot width, depth or area
requirements of the district in which it is located, the land involved shall be
considered an undivided parcel. No portion of any such parcel shall be
developed except in compliance with this chapter, nor shall any such parcel be
divided so as to create a lot that does not meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming structures. Any otherwise lawful structure which exists
on the effective date of this chapter but which could not be erected under the
terms of this chapter because of requirements/restrictions concerning lot size,
height, setbacks or other characteristics of the structure or its location on
the lot may lawfully remain, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Maintenance. A nonconforming structure may be maintained by
ordinary repairs.
      (2)   Enlargement, alterations. A nonconforming structure may be enlarged
and/or altered, provided that:
         (a)   Such enlargement and/or alteration is confined within the lot
lines of the property in question as such lot lines existed on the effective
date of this chapter; and
         (b)   Such enlargement and/or alteration does not increase or worsen
the nonconforming characteristics of the structure.
      (3)   Reconstruction.
         (a)   A nonconforming structure that is damaged or destroyed may be
rebuilt, provided that:
            1.   Reconstruction commences within one year from the date of
damage/destruction and is diligently pursued to completion; and
            2.   The structure, when reconstructed, will not be more
nonconforming than it had been.
         (b)   If reconstruction does not commence within one year or is not
diligently pursued to completion (as determined by the Administrator), the
damaged structure shall be considered abandoned, in which case reconstruction
shall be allowed only if the structure will be rebuilt in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter which are applicable to new structures.
      (4)   Relocation. A nonconforming structure shall not be moved to another
lot unless, after relocation. It will conform to all the regulations of the
district where it will be situated.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses. Any otherwise lawful use existing on the effective
date of this chapter that would not be permitted under the terms of this
chapter may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Expansion/intensification. A nonconforming use which does not
occupy a structure (such as a nursery) may be expanded/intensified, but only
within the confines of the lot lines as such lines existed on the effective
date of this chapter. A nonconforming use which occupies a structure may be
expanded or intensified, but only within that structure and/or within any
conforming addition to said structure. (For rules concerning expansion of
nonconforming structures, see division (C)(2) above).
      (2)   Reestablishment. A nonconforming use which is destroyed or damaged
may be reestablished; however, if the owner of said damaged/destroyed use
proposes to expand, relocate or change it, then the other pertinent divisions
of this section shall control. Moreover, if no significant steps have been
taken to reestablish the use within one year from the date the damage occurred,
then the use shall be considered abandoned and subject to the provisions of
division (D)(5) below.
      (3)   Relocation. A nonconforming use shall not be moved, in whole or in
part, unless, upon relocation, it will conform to all pertinent regulations of
the district in which it will be relocated.
      (4)   Change of use . A nonconforming use may continue, but shall not be
changed except to a use that is permitted under the applicable district
regulations.
      (5)   Discontinuance. When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a
period of 12 consecutive months, It shall not thereafter be resumed. Any
subsequent use shall conform to the uses permitted In the applicable zone
district.
   (E)   Nonconformities under permit authority. The regulations of this
chapter shall not affect the terms of any permit issued prior to the effective
date of this chapter or any pertinent amendment thereto provided that the work
authorized by such permit is completed within a ...[missing material]...
(1975 Code, § 32-XIII)
§ 154.68 SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals. The city’s Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby
established in accordance with state law (see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3).
      (1)   Membership, appointment, compensation. The Board of Appeals shall
consist of seven members. Each Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council. One of the members so
appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her appointment.
Each Board member shall receive for his or her services $25 per meeting. The
Council may amend the compensation of the members of the Zoning Board of
Appeals from time to time.
      (2)   Term of office, vacancies. Each Board member shall hold office for
five years from the date of his or her appointment, and until his or her
successor has been selected and qualified; provided, however, that the initial
appointees to the Board shall serve respectively for the following terms: one
for one year, one for two years, one for three years, one for four years, one
for five years, one for six years and one for seven years. With the advice and
consent of the City Council, the Mayor may remove any member on the Board of
Appeals for cause, after a public hearing. Vacancies on the Board shall be
filled for the unexpired terms of the member whose place has become vacant in
the same manner as provided for the appointment of new members.
      (3)   Meetings, quorum. All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson and at such time as the Board may
determine. All board meetings shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt
their own rules of meeting procedures consistent with this chapter and the
applicable state statutes. The Board may select such officers as it deems
necessary. The Chairperson, or in his or her absence an Acting Chairman, may
administer paths and compel the attendance of witnesses. Four members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of at least four
members shall be necessary to authorize any Board action.
      (4)   Records. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and
examinations. These minutes shall indicate the presence or absence of members,
the vote, including abstentions, of each member on each question, and any
official action taken. A copy of every rule, variance, order or decision of the
Board shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be of public record.
   (B)   Special use permits. This chapter divides the city into various
districts, and permits in each district as a matter of right only those uses
which are clearly compatible with one another. Certain other uses, because of
their special operational or physical characteristics, may not have a
detrimental impact on nearby permitted uses, depending upon their precise
location, manner of operation, and other factors. Such “special uses” require
careful case-by-case review and may be allowed only by permission of the City
Council.
      (1)   Application. Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit
to the Administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of
information enumerated below. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory
report on every request for a special use permit. He or she shall promptly
transmit the completed application and his or her advisory report to the Board
of Appeals. A filing fee is required and is presented on the schedule of fees
which may be amended from time to time by the City Council. Application forms
will be made available by the City Clerk. Items of information:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed
structure or use, if different from division (B)(1)(a) above;
         (c)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner
of operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
         (d)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship
to existing adjacent uses or structures;
         (e)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or
uses;
         (f)   Existing topography of the site (USGS ten-foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
         (g)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
         (h)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
         (i)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and
access ways;
         (j)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed
utilities, whether public or private; and/or
         (k)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
      (2)   Public hearing, notice. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public
hearing on every special use permit application within a reasonable time after
said application is submitted to them. The applicant for a special use permit
shall provide a list of names and addresses of the parties whose property abuts
the proposed special use. The Chairperson of the Board of Appeals shall have
the responsibility of scheduling the public hearings and sending out notices to
that effect. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date and place of hearing, and the nature of the proposed special use
shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing;
         (a)   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property abuts the proposed special use; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
      (3)   Advisory report, factors considered. Within a reasonable time after
the public hearing, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit their advisory
report to the Council. In deciding what its advice should be, the Board of
Appeals shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of
the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the physical environment;
         (b)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on the city’s overall tax base;
         (c)   The effect the proposed special use would have on public
utilities and on traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
         (d)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use
(such as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
      (4)   Action by Council. The Council shall act on every request for
special use permits at their regularly scheduled meeting following submission
of the Board of Appeals’ advisory report. Without further public hearing, the
Council may grant a special use permit by simple majority vote of all members
then holding office. In a separate statement accompanying the permit, the
Council shall state their findings of fact, and indicate their reasons for
approving (with or without conditions) or denying the request for a special use
permit.
      (5)   Duration. A special use permit may be issued for a period up to
eight years and may be extended by the same process for subsequent ten-year
periods.
   (C)   Temporary use permits. Requests for temporary use permits shall be
treated in substantially the same manner as requests for special use permits.
The Council shall not initially issue any temporary use permit for a period
longer than one year, but they may renew any such permit as it sees fit.
   (D)   Amendments.
      (1)   Amendments. The Council may amend this chapter in accordance with
state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-14) and the provisions of this section. Proposed
alterations of district boundaries or proposed changes in the status of uses
(permitted, special, prohibited) shall be deemed proposed amendments.
Amendments may be proposed by the Council, Administrator, the Board of Appeals
or any party in interest.
      (2)   Filing. Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with
the Administrator on a prescribed form. (Every amendment proposal shall also be
filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District as per 70 ILCS 405/22.02a)
The Administrator shall promptly transmit said proposal together with any
comments or recommendations he may wish to make, to the Board of Appeals who
will conduct a public hearing. A filing fee is required.
      (3)   Public hearing, notice. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a
public hearing on every amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said
proposal has been submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may
appear and testify, either in person or duly authorized agent or attorney.
Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of
the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days
before the hearing:
         (a)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city; and
         (b)   When the amendment involves a rezoning, not a text amendment; by
first class mail to all parties whose property abuts the property(ies) for
which rezoning is requested.
      (4)   Advisory report, findings of fact. Within a reasonable time after
the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall submit its advisory report to
the Council. The report shall state the Board of Appeals recommendations
regarding adoption of the proposed amendment, and their reasons therefor. If
the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district boundaries or
to change the status of any use, the Board of Appeals shall include in its
advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the following matters:
         (a)   Existing use(s) and zoning of the property in question;
         (b)   Existing use(s) and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
         (c)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already
permitted under existing regulations;
         (d)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;
and
         (e)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since the property
was initially zoned or last rezoned.
      (5)   Action by Council. The Council shall act on every proposed
amendment at their next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the
Board of Appeals’ Advisory Report. Without further public hearing the Council
may pass any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Board of Appeals
for further consideration by simple majority vote of all the members then
holding office.
      (6)   Exception. The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all the
members of the Council is required to pass an amendment to this chapter when
the proposed amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the
frontage immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners
of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered
(65 ILCS 5/11-13-14).
   (E)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the
Administrator in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any
provision of this chapter may appeal to the Board of Appeals. Every such appeal
shall be made and treated in accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-14) and
the provisions of this section.
      (1)   Filing, record transmittal. Every appeal shall be made within 45
days of the matter complained of by filing with the Administrator and the Board
of Appeals a written notice specifying the grounds for appeal. (Every appeal
shall also be filed with the Soil and Water District as per state law (70 ILCS
405/22.02a). Not more than five working days after the notice of appeal has
been filed, the Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Appeals all
records pertinent to the case. A filing fee is required.
      (2)   Stay of further proceedings. An appeal stays all further action on
the matter being appealed unless the Administrator certifies to the Board of
Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that for
reasons stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Board of
Appeals or the Circuit Court grants a restraining order for due cause, and so
notifies the Administrator.
      (3)   Public hearing, notice. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public
hearing on every appeal within a reasonable time after the filing of the
appeal. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time,
date and place of the hearing, and briefly describing the issue to be decided
shall be given not more than 30 nor less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property abuts the property affected by the appeal; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
      (4)   Advisory report, decision by Council. Within a reasonable time
after the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall submit an advisory report
to the Council. The Council shall make the final decision on the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of said report. The
Council, by an ordinance passed by simple majority vote of all members then
holding office, may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend
the decision or order appealed from to the extent and in the manner that they
deem appropriate.
   (F)   Variances. A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this
chapter that is applicable to a particular lot, structure or use. A so-called
“use variance” (which would allow a use that is neither permitted nor special
in the district in question) is not a variance; it is an amendment, and may be
granted only as provided for in division (D) above.
      (1)   Application. Every application for a variance shall be filed with
the Administrator on a prescribed form. (Every variance application shall also
be filed with the Soil and Water Conservation District as per state law (70
ILCS 405/22.02a). The Administrator shall promptly transmit said application,
together with any advice he or she might wish to offer, to the Board of
Appeals. The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Board to make an informed decision, and shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Brief description/explanation of the requested variance;
         (c)   Location of the structure/use for which the variance is sought;
         (d)   Relationship of said structure/use to existing structures/uses
on adjacent lots;
         (e)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
         (f)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require. A filing fee is required.
      (2)   Public hearing, notice. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public
hearing on each variance request within a reasonable time after the variance
application is submitted to them. At the hearing, any interested party may
appear and testify either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and nature of the
proposed variance shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15 days before
the hearing:
         (a)   By first class mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property abuts the property for which the variance is requested; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city.
      (3)   Standards for variance. The Board of Appeals shall not recommend
nor shall the Council grant any variance unless, based upon the evidence
presented to it, it determines that:
         (a)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter;
         (b)   Strict application of the district requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, and prevent a
reasonable return on the property;
         (c)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardships, and allow a
reasonable return on the property;
         (d)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are
not applicable to other property within the district, and therefore, that
variance would be more appropriately a remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
         (e)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the area where the premises in question are located.
      (4)   Advisory report, decision by Council. Within a reasonable time
after the public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall submit an advisory report
to the Council. The Council may grant a variance by simple majority vote of all
members then holding office, shall act on the requested variance at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the Board of Appeals’
Advisory Report. In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-14), the Council
shall specify the terms of relief granted (if any) in one statement and its
findings of fact in another statement. The findings of fact shall clearly
indicate the Council’s reasons for granting or denying any requested variance.
(1975 Code, § 32-XIV) (Ord. 18-07, passed 7-18-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   LAND USAGE
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
77-1          4-6-1977    Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
77-2          4-6-1977    Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
77-3          5-4-1977    Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
78-6          6-5-1978    Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          northwest quarter of Section 5
79-1          4-4-1979    Annexes 12 tracts of land
79-3          5-2-1979    Annexes all that part of the northwest quarter of the
                          northwest quarter of Section 3
80-3          5-7-1980    Annexes territory beginning at the southeast corner
                          of said quarter
90-5          12-19-1990  Annexes seven different tracts of land
Res. -        5-1-1991    Annexes seven pieces of land
93-2          4-7-1993    Annexes part of the northwest quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
93-8          12-1-1993   Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
94-4          9-7-1994    Annexes part of the northwest quarter of the
                          northwest quarter of Section 5
                          Annexes a part of the northeast quarter, Section 4,
94-5          11-16-1994  beginning at the southeast corner of the southeast
                          quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 4
96-02         3-6-1996    Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
                          Annexes a part of the southeast quarter of the
96-7          7-17-1996   southeast quarter of Section 32, commencing at the
                          northeast corner of Lot 30
                          Annexes land commencing at the northwest corner of
97-01         2-19-1997   the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of
                          Section 32
01-03         3-7-2001    Annexes a part of the southwest quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
                          Annexes a parcel of land being a part of the
01-07         7-18-2001   southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section
                          33
01-09         8-15-2001   Annexes part of the southeast quarter of the
                          southeast quarter of Section 32
04-11         11-3-2004   Annexes Lot 5 in the County Industrial Park,
                          classified as C-1
                          Annexes a parcel of land being a part of the
04-14         11-17-2004  southwest quarter of the northeast quarter and a part
                          of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of
                          Section 4
04-15         12-1-2004   Annexes Lot 31 in Woodcrest Hills
06-01         3-1-2006    Annexes land commencing at an iron rod set in the
                          west right-of-way line of U.S. route 45
06-05         7-5-2006    Annexes territory known as the Vienna Industrial Park
07-02         7-11-2007   Annexes territory and classifies it as C-1
2008-01       1-2-2008    Annexes territory
12-08         10-17-2012  Annexation agreement for real estate commonly known
                          as 355 Old Bloomfield Road
                         
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Grants to Southeastern Illinois Electric Cooperative,
79-2          4-4-1979    Inc., a not-for-profit corporation, electric energy
                          franchise
79-6          6-6-1979    Agreement with Central Illinois Public Service
                          Company for street lighting service
79-7          7-5-1979    Grants rights to General Telephone Company of
                          Illinois
97-02         3-19-1997   Renewing cable television franchise with Galaxy
                          Telecom, L.P.
                          Grants to Southeastern Illinois Electric Cooperative,
04-03         4-21-2004   Inc., the rights for a system for the distribution
                          and sale of electric energy
04-09         8-4-2004    Renewing the cable television franchise with Galaxy
                          Cable, Inc.
10-11         8-4-2010    Approves the sale of Galaxy Cablevision to Zito
                          Midwest, LLC
                          Grants to Ameren Illinois Company, d.b.a. Ameren
19-02         6-5-2019    Illinois, a franchise to construct, operate and
                          maintain an electric utility system
                         
 
TABLE III: LAND USAGE
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./  Date
Res.   Passed   Description
No.
78-1   10-3-    Lot 32 and 52 feet of even width off of the entire south side
       1977     of Lot 26 in Copeland’s Addition rezoned from R-1 to C-2
79-9   9-25-    Variance granted for land beginning at the northeast corner of
       1979     Lot 5 in Woodcrest Hills Addition
81-9   5-20-    Grants zoning variations of Lots 21, 22, 23 in Woodcrest Hills
       1981
81-10  5-20-    Grants zoning variations to Lot 46, Block 1, Simpson
       1981     Subdivision
81-11  6-3-1981 Grants zoning variations of a certain part of the northwest
                quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 4
81-11A 6-3-1981 Grants zoning variations of a certain part of the northeast
                quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 4
81-12  7-1-1981 Grants zoning variations of Lots 24, 25 and 29 in Woodcrest
                Hills Subdivision
01-04  4-19-    Addition of street to city street system, identified as FAP
       2001     885 (Old Illinois Route 146)
                Establishing the zoning classification or the northwest
                quarter of Section 9, Township 13 South, Range 3 East, of the
                third principal meridian to R-A; changing the zoning
                classification of part of the southwest quarter of the
                northwest quarter of Section 4, Township 13 South, Range 3
15-07  8-5-2015 East of the third principal meridian, from R-2 to C-1;
                establishing the zoning classification of the south half of
                the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 9,
                Township 13 South, Range 3 East of the third principal
                meridian as R-A; and establishing the zoning classification of
                the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 5,
                Township 13 South, Range 3 East as R-2
               
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
77-4          5-4-1977    Street previously known as Washington Street, running
                          east from Fourth Street to a dead-end, is vacated
79-4          5-2-1979    Vacates street in Copeland Addition, Section 5,
                          starting at the northwest corner of Lot 7
82-11         8-4-1982    Vacates utility easement
84-4          7-3-1984    Vacates Seventh Street Bridge, and a portion of
                          Seventh Street
                          Vacates streets, including all that portion of Second
86-2          2-19-1986   Street running south from Locust Street between Block
                          19 and 20
2001-01       1-17-2001   Vacates a portion of Galeener Street
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1975 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Reference Code Section
ILCS Reference               Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11               10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28               10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29               10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                  10.04
5 ILCS 120/1.05(a)           33.02
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.         33.02,
                             33.05
5 ILCS 140/3.5(a)            33.02
5 ILCS 270/1                 31.003
5 ILCS 315/3                 31.085
5 ILCS 430                   31.087
5 ILCS 430/5-5 et seq.       33.23,
                             33.25
5 ILCS 430/5-65              33.24
5 ILCS 430/15-10             33.23
10 ILCS                      31.001
10 ILCS 5/1-3                31.085
10 ILCS 5/9-1.4              31.085
10 ILCS 5/9-3                31.085
20 ILCS 430/0.01 et seq.     33.03,
                             33.04
25 ILCS 5/1-188              10.02
35 ILCS 105                  35.04
35 ILCS 115                  35.01
35 ILCS 120/3                35.02
                             35.31,
35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.        35.32,
                             35.33,
                             35.35
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.        114.02
50 ILCS 220/1—7            151.99
50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.        34.050
65 ILCS 5                    10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2              10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1              10.99,
                             152.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1            10.99
65 ILCS 5/3-2-1 et seq.      31.001
65 ILCS 5/3-4-1              30.01
65 ILCS 5/3-4-4              31.025
65 ILCS 5/3-4-6              30.03,
                             31.026
65 ILCS 5/3-4-14             30.09
65 ILCS 5/3-7-2              31.002,
                             31.028
65 ILCS 5/3-7-3              32.27
65 ILCS 5/3-9-2              31.057
65 ILCS 5/3-10-2             32.04
65 ILCS 5/3-10-4             32.06
65 ILCS 5/3-10-6             32.09
65 ILCS 5/3-10-7             31.056
65 ILCS 5/3-10-8             31.058
65 ILCS 5/3-10-15            32.08
65 ILCS 5/3-11-1             31.029
65 ILCS 5/3-11-2             31.034
65 ILCS 5/3-11-3             31.027,
                             31.038
65 ILCS 5/3-11-4             31.033
65 ILCS 5/3-11-6             31.027,
                             31.033
65 ILCS 5/3-11-7             31.031
65 ILCS 5/3-11-11            30.10
65 ILCS 5/3-11-12            30.08,
                             30.09
65 ILCS 5/3-11-13            30.04,
                             30.05
65 ILCS 5/3-11-14            31.039
65 ILCS 5/3-11-18            30.11
65 ILCS 5/3-11-21            31.072
65 ILCS 5/3-11-23            31.064
65 ILCS 5/3-11-24            31.062,
                             31.065
65 ILCS 5/3-12-2             31.029
65 ILCS 5/3-13-1 et seq.     31.007
65 ILCS 5/3-13-4             31.040
65 ILCS 5/3-13-15            30.02
65 ILCS 5/3-14-1             31.002
65 ILCS 5/3-14-3             31.002,
                             31.003
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10          32.10
65 ILCS 5/5-11-8-4           130.10
65 ILCS 5/8-1-8              31.068,
                             32.05
65 ILCS 5/8-1-9              32.05
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1             35.02
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5             35.01
65 ILCS 5/8-11-6             35.04
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17            114.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-1—5/11-1-7  34.059
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5             130.99
65 ILCS 5/11-1-6             34.999
65 ILCS 5/11-5-2             111.08
65 ILCS 5/11-8-4             130.10
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12           152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.    154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3            154.68
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14           154.68
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7            94.05
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7(d)         94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-8(d)         94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-12(d)        94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13(e)        94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15           94.05,
                             94.09
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15.1         94.07,
                             94.09
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2            152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8            152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31              151.06
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1            94.09,
                             151.04
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1.01         94.07
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2            152.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3            90.13
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4            33.40
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.  35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4- 4.2       35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4- 5(a)      35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4- 5(c)      35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4- 5(d)      35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4- 5(d)(9)   35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e)       35.51
65 ILCS 5/11-80-1—5/11-80-296.22
65 ILCS 5/11-80-17           96.08
65 ILCS 5/11-80-18           150.03
65 ILCS 5/11-80-19           150.01
65 ILCS 205/2                152.08
70 ILCS 405/22.02a           154.68
70 ILCS 605                  154.65
210 ILCS 120                 152.07
220 ILCS 5/9-221             114.02
220 ILCS 5/9-222             114.02
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1           114.02
225 ILCS 225/1—24          154.32
235 ILCS 5/1-2 et seq.       95.03
235 ILCS 5/4-2               31.036
410 ILCS 705/1-1 et seq.     116.01
415 ILCS 5                   53.147
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.         91.01
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207(d)          74.11
625 ILCS 5/6-101             70.09
625 ILCS 5/6-303             70.09
625 ILCS 5, Ch. 11           74.15
625 ILCS 5/11-204            70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-204.1          70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-303            73.04,
                             Ch. 77 Sch. III
625 ILCS 5/11-401            70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-402            70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-403            70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-501            70.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)      71.41
625 ILCS 5/12-201            71.41
720 ILCS 5/2-1—2-11        130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-13—2-16       130.01
720 ILCS 5/2-19              130.01
720 ILCS 5/20                130.01
720 ILCS 5/24-1              70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-1.1            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-1.2            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-1.25           70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-1.5            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-1.6            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-2.1            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-2.2            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3              70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.1            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.2            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.3            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.4            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.5            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3.6            70.09
720 ILCS 5/24-3A             70.09
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.       70.09
720 ILCS 570/201 et seq.     70.09
740 ILCS 55/221—222        94.01
740 ILCS 174/15(a)           33.23
740 ILCS 174/15(b)           33.23
745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq.    154.05
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.     33.21
775 ILCS 5/6-101             33.23
815 ILCS 333/1 et seq.       10.02   
                             
 
REFERENCES TO 1975 CODE
1975 Code References 2015 Code Section
1975 Code References 2015 Code Section
2.01                 90.01
2.02                 90.02
2.03                 90.03
2.05                 90.04
2.06                 90.05
2.07                 90.06
2.09                 90.07
2.10                 90.08
2.11                 90.09
2.12                 90.10
2.13                 90.11
2.14                 90.12
2.15                 90.13
2.16                 90.14
3.01                 30.01
3.02                 30.02
3.03                 30.03
3.04                 30.04
3.05                 30.05
3.06                 30.06
3.07                 30.07
3.08                 30.08
3.09                 30.09
3.10                 30.10
3.11                 30.11
3.12                 30.12
3.13                 31.001
3.14                 31.002
3.15                 31.003
3.16                 31.004
3.17                 31.005
3.18                 31.006
3.19                 31.007
3.20                 31.008
3.21                 31.009
3.22                 31.010
3.23                 31.011
3.24                 31.025
3.25                 31.026
3.26                 31.027
3.28                 31.028
3.29                 31.029
3.30                 31.030
3.31                 31.031
3.32                 31.032
3.33                 31.033
3.34                 31.034
3.36                 31.035
3.37                 31.036
3.38                 31.037
3.39                 31.038
3.40                 31.039
3.41                 31.040
3.43                 31.055
3.44                 31.056
3.45                 31.057
3.46                 31.058
3.47                 31.059
3.49                 31.060
3.50                 31.061
3.51                 31.062
3.52                 31.063
3.53                 31.064
3.55                 31.065
3.56                 31.066
3.57                 31.067
3.58                 31.068
3.59                 31.069
3.60                 31.070
3.61                 31.071
3.62                 31.072
3.63                 31.073
3.64                 32.01
3.65                 32.02
3.66                 32.03
3.67                 32.04
3.68                 32.05
3.70                 32.06
3.71                 32.07
3.72                 32.08
3.73                 32.09
3.74                 32.10
3.75                 32.25
3.77                 32.26
3.78                 32.27
3.79                 32.28
7.05                 151.01
7.06                 151.02
7.07                 151.03
7.08                 151.04
7.09                 151.05
7.10                 151.06
8.01                 110.01
8.02                 110.02
8.03                 110.03
8.04                 110.04
8.05                 110.05
8.06                 110.06
8.07                 110.07
8.08                 110.08
8.09                 110.09
8.10                 110.10
8.11                 110.11
8.12                 110.12
8.14                 110.13
8.15                 110.14
8.16                 110.15
8.18                 111.01
8.19                 111.02
8.20                 111.03
8.22                 111.04
8.23                 111.05
8.24                 111.06
8.25                 111.07
8.26                 111.08
8.27                 111.20
8.28                 111.21
8.29                 111.22
8.31                 111.23
8.32                 111.24
8.33                 111.25
8.34                 111.26
8.35                 111.27,
                     111.99
8.36                 111.28
8.43                 112.01
8.44                 112.02
8.45                 112.03
8.46                 112.04
8.56                 112.20
8.57                 112.21
13.01                151.20
13.02                151.21
13.03                151.22
13.04                151.23
13.06                151.24
13.07                151.25
13.08                151.99
16.01                93.01
16.02                93.02
16.03                93.03
16.04                93.04
16.06                93.05
16.07                93.06
16.08                93.99
17.01                52.01
17.02                52.02
17.03                52.03
17.12                52.15
17.13                52.16
17.14                52.17
17.15                52.18
17.16                52.19
17.17                52.20
17.19                52.21
17.20                52.22
17.21                52.23
17.22                52.24
17.23                52.25
17.24                52.26
17.25                52.27
17.26                52.28
17.27                52.29
17.28                52.30
17.29                52.31
17.29.1              52.32
17.30                52.33
17.31                52.34
17.32                52.35
17.33                52.36
20.01                151.55
20.02                151.56
20.03                151.57
20.04                151.58
20.05                151.99
24.01                70.01
24.02                70.02
24.03                70.03
24.04                70.04
24.09                70.05
24.10                70.06
24.11                70.07
24.16                70.20
24.17                70.21,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
24.18                70.22
24.19                70.23
24.20                70.24
24.25                71.01
24.26                71.02
24.27                71.03
24.28                71.04
24.29                71.05
24.30                71.06
24.31                71.07
24.32                71.08
24.33                71.09
24.34                71.10
24.35                71.11
24.36                71.12
24.37                71.13
24.38                71.14
24.39                71.15
24.40                71.16
24.41                71.17
24.42                71.18
24.43                71.19
24.44                71.20
24.45                71.21
24.46                71.22
24.47                71.23
24.48                71.24
24.49                71.25
24.50                71.26
24.51                71.27
24.52                71.28
24.53                71.29
24.54                71.30
24.55                71.31
24.56                71.32
24.57                71.33
24.58                71.34
24.59                71.35
24.60                71.36
24.61                71.37
24.62                71.38
24.63                71.39
24.64                71.40
24.71                72.01
24.72                72.02
24.73                72.03
24.74                72.04
24.75                72.05
24.76                72.06
24.77                72.07
24.81                73.01
24.82                73.02
24.83                73.03
24.84                73.04,
                     73.99
24.85                73.05
24.86                73.06
24.87                73.07
24.88                73.08
24.89                73.09
24.90                73.10
24.91                74.01
24.92                74.02
24.93                74.03
24.94                74.04
24.95                74.05
24.96                74.06
24.97                74.07
24.98                74.08
24.99                74.09
24.100               74.10
24.101               74.11
24.102               74.12
24.103               74.13
24.104               74.14
24.105               74.15
24.106               74.16
24.107               74.17
24.108               74.18
24.109               74.19
24.110               74.20
24.111               74.21
24.116               75.01
24.117               75.02
24.118               75.03
25.01                94.01
25.02                94.01
25.04                94.02
25.06                94.03
25.07                94.99
27.01                130.01
27.02                130.02
27.03                130.03
27.04                130.04
27.05                130.05
27.06                130.06
27.07                130.07
27.10                130.08
27.11                130.09
27.12                130.10
27.13                130.11
27.14                130.12
27.15                130.13
27.18                130.14
27.19                130.15
27.20                130.16
27.21                130.17
27.22                130.18
27.23                130.19
27.26                130.20
27.27                130.21
27.28                130.22
27.29                130.23
27.32                130.24
27.33                130.99
27.36                130.99
28.01                95.01
28.02                95.99
28.03                95.02
28.04                95.03
28.05                95.04
28.06                95.05
28.07                95.06
28.08                95.07
29.01                151.40
29.02                151.41
29.04                151.42
29.05                151.43
29.07                151.99
30.01                34.001
30.02                34.002
30.03                34.003
30.04                34.004
30.05                34.005
30.06                34.006
30.07                34.999
30.08                34.020
30.10                34.021
30.11                34.022
30.12                34.023
30.13                34.024
30.15                34.025
30.20                34.040
30.21                34.041
30.22                34.042
30.23                34.043
30.24                34.044
30.25                34.045
30.26                34.046
30.27                34.047
30.28                34.048
30.29                34.049
30.31                34.052
30.32                34.053
30.33                34.054
30.34                34.055
30.35                34.056
30.36                34.057
30.38                34.058
30.39                34.059
30.40                34.070
30.41                34.071
30.42                34.072
30.43                34.073
30.44                34.074
30.45                34.075
30.47                34.076
30.48                34.077
30.49                34.078
30.50                34.079
30.51                34.080
30.52                34.081
30.53                34.082
30.54                34.083
30.55                34.084
30.56                34.085
30.57                34.086
30.58                34.087
30.59                34.088
32-I.1               154.01
32-I.2               154.02
32-I.3               154.03
32-I.4               154.04
32-I.5               154.05
32-II.1              154.06
32-II.2              154.07
32-III.1             154.20
32-III-2             154.21
32-III-3             154.22
32-III-IV            154.45
32-III-4             154.23
32-III-5             154.24
32-III-6             154.25
32-III-7             154.26
32-III-8             154.27
32-III-9             154.28
32-III-10            154.29
32-III-11            154.30
32-III-12            154.31
32-III-13            154.32
32-V                 154.46
32-VI                154.47
32-VII               154.48
32-VIII              154.49
32-IX                154.50
32-X                 154.51
32-XI                154.65
32-XII               154.66
32-XIII              154.67
32-XIV               154.68
33.01                96.01
33.02                96.02
33.03                96.03
33.04                96.04
33.05                96.05
33.06                96.06
33.07                96.07
33.09                96.08
33.10                96.09
33.11                96.10
33.12                96.11
33.13                96.12
33.14                96.13
33.15                96.14
33.17                96.15
33.18                96.16
33.19                96.17
33.21                96.18
33.22                96.19
33.23                96.20
33.24                96.21
33.25                96.22
33.26                96.23
33.27                96.24
33.28                96.25
34.01                153.001
34.02                153.002
34.03                153.003
34.04                153.015
34.06                153.016
34.07                153.017
34.08                153.018
34.09                153.030
34.10                153.031
34.11                153.032
34.12                153.045
34.14                153.046
34.15                153.047
34.16                153.048
34.17                153.060
34.19                153.061
34.20                153.062
34.21                153.063
34.22                153.064
34.23                153.075
34.24                153.076
34.25                153.077
34.26                153.078
34.27                153.090
34.28                153.091
34.29                153.092
34.32                153.105
34.33                153.106
34.34                153.107
34.35                153.999
34.36                Ch. 153, App. A
34.37                Ch. 153, App. A
34.38                Ch. 153, App. A
34.39                153.004
36.01                35.01
36.02                35.02
36.03                35.03
36.04                35.04
38.01                53.001
38.02                53.002
38.03                53.003
38.04                53.004
38.05                53.015
38.06                53.016
38.07                53.017
38.09                53.018
38.11                53.019
38.12                53.020
38.14                53.021
38.15                53.022
38.16                53.023
38.20                53.026
38.23                53.055
38.25                53.056
38.26                53.057
38.27                53.058
38.28                53.059
38.29                53.070
38.30                53.071
38.32                53.072
38.33                53.073
38.35                53.074
38.36                53.075
38.37                53.076
38.38                53.077
38.39                53.078
38.40                53.079
38.41                53.090
38.42                53.091
38.43                53.092
38.44                53.093
38.45                53.094
38.46                53.095
38.47                53.096
38.48                53.097
38.49                53.098
38.50                53.099
38.52                53.110
38.53                53.111
38.54                53.112
38.55                53.113
38.56                53.114
38.57                53.115
38.58                53.116
38.60                53.117
38.61                53.118
38.62                53.119
38.63                53.130
38.65                53.131
38.66                53.132
38.67                53.133
38.68                53.999
38.69                53.999
38.70                53.999
39.01                51.01
39.02                51.02
39.03                51.03
39.04                51.04
39.05                51.05
39.06                51.06
39.07                51.07
39.09                51.08
39.10                51.09
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        5-1-1991    TSO, Table I
-        1-16-2008   52.37
13-04    11-6-2013   33.03
19-01    3-20-2019   95.08
21-04    7-21-2021   95.08
21-05    7-21-2021   95.09
22-06    1-19-2022   33.40—
                     33.45
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
349      - -         53.059
                     52.16,
                     52.17,
                     52.20,
280      2-15-1955   52.21,
                     52.23,
                     52.25,
                     52.26,
                     52.28
341      3-4-1964    34.087
350      6-23-1965   111.28
351      7-19-1965   151.22,
                     151.99
69-6     11-5-1969   151.99
69-10    11-5-1969   151.40,
                     151.41
71-3     11-3-1971   Ch. 77, Sch. I
71-2     11-8-1971   33.01
159      1-10-1972   71.21
73-1     6-29-1973   95.01
77-1     4-6-1977    TSO, Table I
77-2     4-6-1977    TSO, Table I
77-3     5-4-1977    TSO, Table I
77-4     5-4-1977    TSO, Table IV
77-6     6-6-1977    Ch. 76, Sch. I
77-11    11-7-1977   Ch. 76, Sch. II 
77-8     8-1-1977    Ch. 77, Sch. II
78-1     10-3-1977   TSO, Table III
78-4     2-6-1978    34.088
78-3     2-6-1978    154.46
78-5     2-6-1978    53.015
78-6     6-5-1978    TSO, Table I
79-1     4-4-1979    TSO, Table I
79-2     4-4-1979    TSO, Table II
79-3     5-2-1979    TSO, Table I
79-4     5-2-1979    TSO, Table IV
79-6     6-6-1979    TSO, Table II
79-bA    7-5-1979    96.11
79-7     7-5-1979    TSO, Table II
79-9     9-25-1979   TSO, Table III
79-11A   10-3-1979   30.04
79-12    11-21-1979  Ch. 77, Sch. III
79-13    11-21-1979  96.26,
                     96.99
                     52.29,
80-2     3-5-1980    52.34,
                     52.35,
                     52.36
80-3     5-7-1980    TSO, Table I
80-6     9-17-1980   52.27
80-7     11-19-1980  52.33
                     91.01—
81-4     3-4-1981    91.09,
                     91.99
81-5     3-18-1981   31.012
81-9     5-20-1981   TSO, Table III
81-10    5-20-1981   TSO, Table III
81-11    6-3-1981    TSO, Table III
81-11A   6-3-1981    TSO, Table III
81-12    7-1-1981    TSO, Table III
82-5     4-21-1982   31.005
82-11    8-4-1982    TSO, Table IV
83-2     7-6-1983    52.31,
                     52.33
83-4     7-6-1983    53.020
83-8     9-7-1983    111.25
83-9     10-5-1983   52.30
84-4     7-3-1984    TSO, Table IV
84-6     7-18-1984   53.145—
                     53.154
84-7     9-5-1984    96.27
85-9     6-19-1985   53.015
86-1     2-5-1986    73.01
86-2     2-19-1986   TSO, Table IV
86-5     9-17-1986   130.26,
                     130.99
90-5     12-19-1990  TSO, Table I
91-4     5-15-1991   95.03,
                     95.99
92-4     5-20-1992   95.06,
                     95.07
92-8     10-7-1992   50.01
93-2     4-7-1993    TSO, Table I
93-8     12-1-1993   TSO, Table I
93-7     12-15-1993  51.01,
                     51.04
94-4     9-7-1994    TSO, Table I
94-5     11-16-1994  TSO, Table I
95-5     12-6-1995   35.30—
                     35.36
96-01    2-7-1996    53.025
96-02    3-6-1996    TSO, Table I
96-7     7-17-1996   TSO, Table I
96-08    8-21-1996   32.03,
                     32.10
97-01    2-19-1997   TSO, Table I
97-02    3-19-1997   TSO, Table II
97-06    8-20-1997   34.049,
                     34.050
98-04    9-2-1998    70.21,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
                     114.01—
98-05    11-18-1998  114.07,
                     114.99
2000-02  6-21-2000   53.025
2001-01  1-17-2001   TSO, Table IV
2001-02  2-7-2001    154.07
01-03    3-7-2001    TSO, Table I
01-04    4-19-2001   TSO, Table III
01-07    7-18-2001   TSO, Table I
01-09    8-15-2001   TSO, Table I
2001-10  10-3-2001   53.025
02-01    3-6-2002    Ch. 77, Sch. I
2002-04  7-3-2002    91.10,
                     91.99
04-03    4-21-2004   TSO, Table II
                     152.01—
04-06    7-7-2004    152.12,
                     152.99
04-09    8-4-2004    TSO, Table II
                     91.01,
2004-10  10-20-2004  91.06,
                     91.09
04-11    11-3-2004   TSO, Table I
04-14    11-17-2004  TSO, Table I
04-15    12-1-2004   TSO, Table I
2005-01  6-1-2005    52.32,
                     53.015
                     31.085—
05-06    8-17-2005   31.087,
                     31.999
06-01    3-1-2006    TSO, Table I
06-04    6-7-2006    50.02
06-05    7-5-2006    TSO, Table I
07-02    7-11-2007   TSO, Table I
07-06    11-21-2007  35.15
2008-01  1-2-2008    TSO, Table I
08-04    5-7-2008    34.051,
                     34.089
08-11    10-15-2008  30.02,
                     31.040
09-02    6-17-2009   35.16
09-05    8-5-2009    70.08,
                     70.99
09-06    12-2-2009   53.023,
                     53.154
09-07    12-2-2009   53.022,
                     53.024
09-08    12-2-2009   53.023
10-01    1-20-2010   33.02
10-02    2-17-2010   91.09
                     115.01—
10-03    4-7-2010    115.31,
                     115.99
                     150.01—
10-04    4-7-2010    150.04,
                     150.99
10-11    8-4-2010    TSO, Table II
10-12    8-4-2010    95.03
10-16    12-1-2010   115.09,
                     115.10
                     113.01—
11-01    1-5-2011    113.04,
                     113.99
                     51.04,
                     52.32,
                     53.015,
                     53.020,
11-03    3-2-2011    53.026,
                     53.040—
                     53.043,
                     53.149,
                     53.154
12-01    5-2-2012    34.050
12-08    10-17-2012  TSO, Table I
12-09    12-19-2012  31.041
                     92.01—
13-01    2-28-2013   92.03,
                     92.99
13-06    11-6-2013   95.08
14-01    3-19-2014   52.18
14-02    6-4-2014    33.04
14-05    8-6-2014    31.013
14-06    10-15-2014  33.04
15-01    1-21-2015   34.087
15-02    5-20-2015   96.28
15-03    6-17-2015   33.04
15-07    8-5-2015    TSO Table III
15-08    9-2-2015    Adopting Ordinance
15-09    10-7-2015   71.41
15-10    12-16-2015  51.10
16-01    5-6-2016    154.07,
                     154.65
16-02    2-17-2016   53.023
16-03    2-17-2016   53.022
16-06    6-15-2016   33.04
16-07    6-17-2016   71.41
16-08    7-6-2016    115.14
16-09    10-5-2016   31.040
16-10    12-21-2016  34.087
17-01    2-1-2017    33.05
17-02    5-3-2017    130.27
17-03    5-7-2017    35.50,
                     35.51
17-04    6-21-2017   33.04
17-06    7-5-2017    70.09
18-01    1-3-2018    33.20—
                     33.25
18-03    5-16-2018   35.15
18-04    6-6-2018    33.04
18-07    7-18-2018   154.68
19-02    6-5-2019    TSO Table II
                     116.01—
19-06    11-20-2019  116.03,
                     116.99
                     97.01—
19-07    12-4-2019   97.03,
                     97.99
20-01    7-1-2020    35.15
20-04    9-2-2020    31.040
20-06    9-16-2020   53.023
20-07    9-16-2020   53.022
21-01    1-6-2021    91.07
22-01    1-5-2022    96.29,
                     96.99
22-02    1-19-2022   115.10
                     94.01—
22-03    2-2-2022    94.09,
                     94.99
22-05    9-7-2022    53.023
22-06    9-7-2022    53.023
23-01    2-15-2023   96.17
23-04    12-20-2023  52.18,
                     52.33
                     95.20—
24-04    9-4-2024    95.22,
                     95.99
                    
 
