WAPELLA, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance No. 2024-10-16C, passed 10-16-2024;
and
State legislation approved through 2024 Pamphlet #6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2022-6-15
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE OF WAPELLA
   ILLINOIS CODE OF ORDINANCES
   WHEREAS, the Village of Wapella has authority, pursuant to the Illinois
Municipal Code, to cause the codification of Ordinances of the Village; and
   WHEREAS, the Village Board of Trustees previously authorized American Legal
Publishing Corporation to prepare a general Code of Ordinances incorporating
Ordinances adopted by the Village of Wapella in order to produce a Code
containing said Ordinances for easy reference and public use; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has completed the Code of
Ordinances and produced copies of said book to the Village; and
   WHEREAS, at least three (3) copies of the Code of Ordinances book have been
available in the Clerk's office for public inspection for more than thirty (30)
days; and
   WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of Wapella to adopt the Wapella Code of Ordinances, prepared by
American Legal Publishing Corporation, as the official code book for the
Village of Wapella.
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees for the
Village of Wapella, DeWitt County, Illinois, as follows:
   SECTION 1. That the Village of Wapella, Illinois Code of Ordinances prepared
and published by American Legal Publishing Corporation, a copy of which is
incorporated herein by reference, be and the same is hereby adopted as the
official Code of Ordinances, for the Village of Wapella.
   SECTION 2. That the Village Clerk shall, upon passage of any Ordinance, on
and after the effective date of this Ordinance, include such Ordinance in the
Village of Wapella Code of Ordinances book, as directed by the Village Board of
Trustees, so that Village Ordinances are located in the Code of Ordinances book
for public access.
   SECTION 3. That the Village Clerk shall maintain in her office, at least
three (3) copies of the Village of Wapella Illinois Code of Ordinances book for
use by members of the public.
   SECTION 4. That the Village Clerk be and she is hereby authorized and
directed to publish this Ordinance in pamphlet form, as provided by law.
   SECTION 5. In the event a section clause, provision or part of this
Ordinance is determined to be invalid by a Court of competent jurisdiction, all
valid parts that are severable from invalid parts, shall remain in full force
and effect.
   SECTION 6. All Ordinances or parts of Ordinances in conflict herewith, are
repealed in whole or in part, provided however that nothing herein shall affect
any rights, action or causes of action, which have accrued to the Village prior
to the effective date of this Ordinance, and further provided and subject to
the provisions of Title 1, Chapter 10 of the Wapella Code of Ordinances 2019,
which identifies Ordinances unaffected by the codification of Village
Ordinances, and Ordinances saved, technical codes, and other reservations
provided therein.
   SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall take effect ten (10) days from and after the
date of its publication.
 
                                                        YES NO ABSENT PRESENT
Buraglio                                                             
Holland                                                              
Johnson                                                              
Miller                                                               
Dennis Klatt** (to the extent a presidential vote may be             
necessary)
 
   Passed and approved this 15th day of June, 2022.
                     Dennis Klatt /s/
                     Dennis Klatt, President
                     Village of Wapella
ATTEST:
Robin L. Morrow /s/
Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Public utility ordinances
   
10.19   Pending suits
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Wapella shall be designated as
the code of Wapella, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Wapella.
   COUNTY. DeWitt County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of DeWitt County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.  
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of such officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.  HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at any
time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the Village
of Wapella.
   POLICE FORCE. Includes such persons in the employ of a village as members of
the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be appointed and sworn as
POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT. The President of the Village of Wapella.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, city, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies
thereof, or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized
public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
REGISTERED MAIL.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of Wapella,
irrespective of its population or legal classification.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law, it
shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)    An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only, and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or
Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Village Board may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Village Board.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Village
Board or a certain village officer or employee to make additional regulations
for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all regulations of
a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the codification and
not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140 /1 et seq.
§ 10.18 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the passage of this section or
by virtue of §
10.13, excepting as this code may contain provision for such matters, in which
case this section shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances
in respect of such provisions only.
(1975 Code, § 34-108)
§ 10.19 PENDING SUITS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied, to any judgment announced after the new ordinance
takes effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed
as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance
of the village herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the village under any
section or ordinance existing at the time of the passage of this ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 34-109)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of this
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
33.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Board composition
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Special meetings
   
30.04   Rules for conducting meetings of the Board
   
30.05   Records
   
30.06   Board; powers and duties
   
30.07   Annual audit
   
30.08   Remote participation in meetings
   
30.09   Public comment
§ 30.01 BOARD COMPOSITION.
   The Board of the village should consist of the President and six Trustees,
and shall be the governing body of the village.
(1975 Code, § 2-101)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Board shall be held on the third Wednesday of each
month at the hour of 7:00 p.m. at the Village Hall. Provided, however, that if
any such regular meeting shall fall upon any holiday, recognized as such by
either the laws of the United States or the laws of the State of Illinois, then
the said regular meeting so falling on said holiday shall be held on the day,
not a Sunday or a holiday, after said holiday at the time and place aforesaid.
(1975 Code, § 2-102) (Ord. 2021-4-20, passed 4-20-2021)
§ 30.03 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be called from time to time by the
President or any three Trustees, upon giving no less than 48 hours’ notice to
all Board members.
(1975 Code, § 2-103) (Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 30.04 RULES FOR CONDUCTING MEETINGS OF THE BOARD.
   The following rules should govern the Board and its regulations.
   (A)   The Board shall convene promptly at the hour fixed for meetings and
during the session members of the board shall not receive phone calls, emails,
text messaging or similar electronic communication.
   (B)   The President may place an item on the agenda of a meeting. All such
requests for placing an item on the agenda shall as far as possible be reduced
to writing and be filed with the Clerk. The President may consider recommended
items for the agenda of a meeting from any Trustee, though he or she is not
bound to reduce these recommendations into written requests to the Clerk. A
member of the public shall have no right to place any item on the agenda of the
Board meeting. Public concerns must be addressed to the Department Chairperson,
whose duties include the subject of the citizen concern.
   (C)   All bills, invoices, claims and payroll items shall first be approved
by the Chairperson originating the item and the Chairperson of Accounts and
Finance before they are submitted to the Board for vote. The Board by separate
ordinance may provide for continuing authority to the Treasurer to pay certain
items which are reoccurring expenses provided that the monthly report to the
Board includes disclosure of all items paid under these continuing ordinances.
   (D)   The following shall be the order of business at Board meetings as a
general policy. The President shall have the authority to deviate from this
policy as he or she deems appropriate given time restraints and the importance
of matters to be discussed:
      (1)   Role call;
      (2)   Approval of the minutes;
      (3)   Department reports;
      (4)   Public address to the Board;
      (5)   Tabled items;
      (6)   New business, items on the agenda which require a vote;
      (7)   New business items for discussion of further consideration at
future meetings; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (E)   Four members of the corporate authorities then serving shall
constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of the majority of those present for
any meeting provided there is a quorum shall be necessary to adopted any
motion, resolution or ordinance unless a greater number is required by law.
   (F)   For each vote, the Clerk shall call the role of each member entitled
to vote and he or she shall state out loud whether they vote yes, no or
abstain. The Clerk shall record the vote by each member.
   (G)   The President shall preside over the Board at all meetings. In the
event the President is unable to attend, then the members present may designate
a President Pro Tem to preside over the meeting.
   (H)   The President shall not vote on any measure, motion, resolution or
ordinance except:
      (1)   Where the vote is a tie;
      (2)   Where half of the Trustees vote in favor of an item and there is
not a tie vote; and
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
then serving is required by law to pass an item.
   (I)   All resolutions, and motions that create any liability against the
village, provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or to sell
any village property, and all ordinances, are subject to the veto of the
President. The President shall reduce his or her veto to writing along with his
or her written explanation of the basis of the veto. The President may veto one
or more sums set forth in an ordinance and the remainder shall become
effective. If the President disapproves of an entire ordinance, resolution or
motion, then at the next regular or special meeting, which may not occur sooner
than five days after the passage of the ordinance, the veto may be reconsidered
by the Board of Trustees. If two-thirds of all trustees then holding office
vote in favor to pass the ordinance, resolution or motion contrary to the
President’s veto then it shall become effective.
   (J)   Every resolution and ordinance passed by the Board, which the
President approves, must be signed by the President. Every ordinance must be
recorded in the ordinance book.
   (K)   (1)   The following procedures shall be followed when an item is on
the agenda and submitted and to be considered by the Board for a vote:
         (a)   The President shall call for a motion to approve the item;
         (b)   The President shall call for a second for the item;
         (c)   If the item is moved and seconded then and only then should the
President call for discussion. The President shall allow the Board to discuss
an item until all opinions and thoughts have been expressed, but upon motion of
any Board member and second the President may call for a vote to terminate
discussion; and
         (d)   At the completion of the discussion, the President shall direct
the Clerk to conduct a role call vote. The Clerk shall announce the results of
the vote and whether or not the measure passed.
      (2)   Robert’s Rules of Orders shall guide the procedures used by the
Board during its meetings. The Board shall provide for a parliamentarian and in
the absence of one being designated by the Board then the Village Attorney
shall act as parliamentarian. The rules of procedure may be temporarily
altered, amended or suspended at any time by a vote of the Board including the
President.
   (L)   The President shall appoint such special committees as he or she deems
necessary or as may be directed by the Board.
   (M)   The Board shall vote on requests for expenditures by the department
heads on an individual basis if the expenditure is a non-reoccurring
expenditure. The Board may vote by the use of a consent agenda for routine
reoccurring expenses. The consent agenda will simply be a single item on the
agenda which will call for the approval or disapproval of all listed invoices
which have been or need to be paid. If any trustee or the President requests
that a particular invoice be removed from the consent agenda items then it will
be so removed. The remainder of the bills to be paid shall be voted on as a
single item. Any item removed from the consent agenda shall be considered
separately.
   (N)   Section 2.05 of the Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.05) provides that
any person may record a public meeting “by tape, film or other means”. The
section also provides that “[t]he authority holding the meeting shall prescribe
reasonable rules to govern the right to make such recordings.” Pursuant to this
Act, the village has adopted the following rules.
      (1)   Audio recording devices will be allowed to be placed on the tables
before the meeting begins. Once the meeting is called to order the devices must
remain undisturbed until the meeting is adjourned or recessed. Audio recording
devices will record only the speaker’s voice and whatever amplification or
public address system the Board chooses to use. Devices besides those solely
designed to record the proceedings will not be allowed.
      (2)   Video recording devices will be allowed from the back row of seats
only. All video recorders and cameras will use only the ambient lighting
provided. Auxiliary lighting and flash photograph will not be permitted.
Devices besides those solely designed to record the proceedings will not be
allowed. Statutes (735 ILCS 5/8-701) expressly allow witnesses who are giving
testimony to request that video cameras be turned off during their testimony.
If a witness requests his or her testimony not be visually recorded the
operator of the video camera will turn off his or her recording device for the
duration of the testimony.
(1975 Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 11-2, passed 1-18-2011; Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-
21-2022)
§ 30.05 RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep the records and minutes of the Board
proceedings.
(1975 Code, § 2-105)
§ 30.06 BOARD; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall exercise all legislative powers, functions and duties
conferred upon the village and its officers. It shall make orders for the doing
of work, or the construction of any improvements of streets, waterways, bridges
and buildings. It should levy all taxes, appropriate all funds, order audits,
allow all bills, accounts, payrolls and claims and order payment.
   (B)   The Board shall make or authorize the making of all contracts and no
contracts shall be binding upon the village unless made by ordinance or
resolution adopted by the Board. All department chairpersons and officers of
each department are agents of the Board. Their acts are subject to the review
and approval and ratification of the Board. Each chairperson shall report to
the Board at each regular meeting. The Board may by resolution assign to a
trustee, officer or employees’ duties in respect to the business of other
departments and such service shall be rendered without additional compensation.
(1975 Code, § 2-106)
§ 30.07 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   At the end of each fiscal year the Board shall order an audit of the books
and records of the village to be made by a competent accountant and shall
publish the results of this examination as provided by law. Each Trustee and
the President shall be furnished with a copy of this audit.
(1975 Code, § 2-107)
§ 30.08 REMOTE PARTICIPATION IN MEETINGS.
   (A)   Definition of meeting. The term MEETING as used in any existing
village resolutions, ordinance or rules shall be defined to mean, “Any
gathering, whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone calls,
electronic means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic chat
and instant messaging), or other means of contemporary interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public body held
for the purpose of discussing public business” or such other definition as
shall be contained within the Illinois state statutes.
   (B)   Remote Participation Policy. Village Trustees hereby adopt the Remote
Participation Policy that permits a member of the public body to attend and
participate in any meeting of a public body as defined in the Open Meetings Act
from a remote location via telephone, video or internet connection provided
that such attendance and participation is in compliance with the policy and any
applicable laws.
      (1)   Policy statement. It is the policy of the Village of Wapella that a
member of the Village Trustees (or any village committee, board or commission
associated with the village, which is subject to the provisions of the Open
Meetings Act) may attend and participate in any open or closed meeting of that
covered body from a remote location via telephone, video or internet
connection, provided that such attendance and participation is in compliance
with this policy and any other applicable laws. (When applying this policy to a
covered body other than the Village Trustees, the term “Village Trustees” as
used below shall mean that covered body).
      (2)   Prerequisites. A member of the Village Trustees shall be provided
the opportunity to attend an open and closed meeting or only one of such
meetings from a remote location if the member meets the following conditions
and a majority of a quorum of the Village Trustees votes to approve the remote
attendance:
         (a)   The member must notify the Village Clerk at least 24 hours
before the meeting unless advance notice is impractical;
         (b)   The member must meet one of three reasons described herein why
he or she is unable to physically attend the meeting, including either: (1)
that the member cannot attend because of personal illness or disability; (2)
the member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the business of the
village; or (3) the member cannot attend because of a family or other
emergency; and
         (c)   A quorum of the Village Trustees must be physically present at
the location of the meeting as posted in the meeting notice.
      (3)   Voting procedures. After roll call, a vote of the Board shall be
taken, considering the prerequisites set forth in division (B)(2) of this
section, on whether to allow an off-site board member to participate remotely.
All of the members physically present are permitted to vote on whether remote
participation will be allowed. A vote may be taken to permit remote
participation for a stated series of meetings if the same reason applies in
each case. Otherwise, a vote must be taken to allow each instance of remote
participation.
      (4)   Quorum and vote required. A quorum must be established by members
physically present at any meeting before it can be considered whether to allow
a member to participate in the meeting remotely. A vote of a majority of a
quorum shall be necessary to decide the issue. For the meeting to continue
there shall always need to be a quorum physically present.
      (5)   Minutes. The member participating remotely shall be considered an
off-site participant and counted as present by means of video or audio
conference, for that meeting if the member is allowed to participate. The
meeting minutes shall also reflect and state specifically whether each member
is physically present, present by video, or present by audio means.
      (6)   Rights of remote member. The member permitted to participate
remotely will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and
participate in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject
to all general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered
to. The remote member shall be heard, considered, and counted as to any vote
taken. Accordingly, the name of any remote member shall be called during any
vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded by the Clerk and placed in
the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member participating remotely may
leave a meeting and return as in the case of any member.
      (7)   Meetings. The term “meeting” as used herein refers to any
gathering, whether in person or by video or audio conference, telephone call,
electronic means (such as, without limitation, electronic mail, electronic
chat, and instant messaging), or other means of contemporaneous interactive
communication, of a majority of a quorum of the members of a public body held
for the purposes of discussing public business.
      (8)   Closed meetings. A quorum of Village Trustees members must be
physically present at any closed meeting. Members participating remotely shall
otherwise be entitled to participate in closed meetings by video or audio
conference.
      (9)   Costs. A member participating remotely via telephone shall be
reimbursed for the cost of the telephone call upon a valid receipt shown. Any
other costs associated with remote participation, including video conferencing
and other audio and video equipment, must be approved by Village Trustees.
      (10)   Remote meetings due to declared emergency. An open or closed
meeting may be conducted by audio or video conference, without the physical
presence of a quorum of the members, so long as the following conditions are
met:
         (a)   The Governor or the Director of the Illinois Department of
Public Health has issued a disaster declaration related to public health
concerns because of a disaster as defined in Section 4 of the Illinois
Emergency Management Agency Act, and all or part of the jurisdiction of the
public body is covered by the disaster area;
         (b)   The head of the public body as defined in subsection (e) of
Section 2 of the Freedom of Information Act determines that an in-person
meeting or a meeting conducted under this Act is not practical or prudent
because of a disaster;
         (c)   All members of the body participating in the meeting, wherever
their physical location, shall be verified and can hear one another and can
hear all discussion and testimony;
         (d)   For open meetings, members of the public present at the regular
meeting location of the body can hear all discussion and testimony and all
votes of the members of the body, unless attendance at the regular meeting
location is not feasible due to the disaster, including the issued disaster
declaration, in which case the public body must make alternative arrangements
and provide notice pursuant to this section of such alternative arrangements in
a manner to allow any interested member of the public access to
contemporaneously hear all discussion, testimony, and roll call votes, such as
by offering a telephone number or a web-based link;
         (e)   At least one member of the body, chief legal counsel, or chief
administrative officer is physically present at the regular meeting location,
unless unfeasible due to the disaster, including the issued disaster
declaration;
         (f)   All votes are conducted by roll call, so each member's vote on
each issue can be identified and recorded;
         (g)   Except in the event of a bona fide emergency, 48 hours' notice
shall be given of a meeting to be held pursuant to this section. Notice shall
be given to all members of the public body, shall be posted on the website of
the public body, and shall also be provided to any news media who has requested
notice of meetings pursuant to subsection (a) of Section 2.02 of the Freedom of
Information Act. If the public body declares a bona fide emergency:
            1.   Notice shall be given pursuant to subsection (a) of Section
2.02 of the Freedom of Information Act, and the presiding officer shall state
the nature of the emergency at the beginning of the meeting.
            2.   The public body must comply with the verbatim recording
requirements set forth in Section 2.06 of the Freedom of Information Act.
         (h)   Each member of the body participating in a meeting by audio or
video conference for a meeting held pursuant to this section is considered
present at the meeting for purposes of determining a quorum and participating
in all proceedings;
         (i)   Public bodies holding open meetings under this division (B)(10)
must also keep a verbatim record of all their meetings in the form of an audio
or video recording. Verbatim records made under this division (B)(10)(i) of
this section shall be made available to the public under, and are otherwise
subject to, the Open Meeting Act.
         (j)   The public body shall bear all costs associated with compliance
with this division (B)(10).
(Ord. 2010-2, passed 2-16-2010; Ord. 2020-4-28A, passed 4-28-2020; Ord. 2021-1-
19, passed 1-19-2021)
§ 30.09 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   Public comment shall be listed on each regularly scheduled Village
Board meeting and persons shall be allowed to address the Village Board as set
forth in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the Village Board that any person may
address the Village Board at its regular meetings under the public comment
agenda item. Public comment shall be limited to three minutes per speaker to
speak on any matter pertinent to issues or matters relating to the village. The
three-minute time limit shall apply unless the Village Board, by a majority
vote, sets a lower or higher time limit for comment on a particular subject
which shall apply to all speakers during that public comment section. After a
reasonable period of time has been devoted to public comment, the public
comment section may be closed upon a motion and second of the Village Board and
a majority vote in favor thereof.
   (C)   If questions are asked during a speaker’s allotted time, a village
official, if any, who has a response to the question, may attempt to respond to
the question. If a response is not immediately available, the village may, but
shall not be required to, attempt to respond to the question on or before the
next Village Board meeting. Responses will not be provided to questions dealing
with matters appropriate for executive session discussion only.
   (D)   If numerous persons wish to speak on a single topic, the Village Board
may recognize a number of individuals who wish to speak in favor of, against or
wish to make general comments regarding the issue. The village shall not be
required to allow every person who wishes to address the issue to do so, but as
many views as possible should be heard. Any person who is not able to speak
during a public comment period shall be allowed and encouraged to present his
or her views to the village in writing.
   (E)   All comments must be civil in nature. Any person who engages in
threatening or disorderly behavior when addressing the Village Board shall be
deemed out-of-order by the presiding officer and his or her time ceased to
address the Village Board at said meeting.
   (F)   Public comment shall be allowed in a similar manner at all committee
meetings or meetings of subsidiary bodies of the village.
(Ord. 11-4, passed 5-17-2011)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Salaries
   
31.002   Hourly employees; pay
   
31.003   Appointments
   
31.004   Terms of office; vacancies
   
31.005   Assignment of duties
   
31.006   Records
   
31.007   Moneys received
   
31.008   Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
31.009   Chairperson of the Water Department
   
31.010   Drainage Chairperson
   
31.011   Administration of oaths
   
31.012   Office of Collector
   
31.013   Village Attorney
   
31.014   Sexual harassment
   
31.015   Whistleblower reporting and anti-retaliation policy and procedure
Village Clerk
   
31.025   Appointment
   
31.026   Term; under control of Chairperson of Accounts and Finances
   
31.027   Bond; oath
   
31.028   Fees; property of village
   
31.029   Corporate seal
   
31.030   Attend Village Board; Clerk thereof; record
   
31.031   Record of ordinances
   
31.032   Notices; Clerk to issue
   
31.033   Licenses; Clerk to attest
   
31.034   Shall deliver ordinances and other documents upon request
   
31.035   Monthly statement
   
31.036   Register of checks; receipts
   
31.037   Bills; claims; where filed; report upon; record of; oath
   
31.038   Warrant for bill
   
31.039   Document retention
Village Treasurer
   
31.050   Election
   
31.051   Term of office
   
31.052   Bond; oath
   
31.053   Shall receive corporate money; accounts
   
31.054   Monthly account
   
31.055   Register and cancel warrants
   
31.056   Special assessment fund kept separate
   
31.057   Receipts
   
31.058   Keep corporate money separate; private use
   
31.059   Warrants; how signed; contents
   
31.060   Daily deposits
   
31.061   City depository; selection; interest; collection of; bond
   
31.062   Annual account; publication
   
31.063   Books; contents of; open to examination
   
31.064   Accounts of revenue, debts, bonds and the like
   
31.065   Bond register; report
   
31.066   Records of collections
   
31.067   Payment of certain bills
   
31.068   Collection of funds by Village Clerk or Treasurer
Village President
   
31.080   Duties
   
31.081   Appointment of officers
   
31.082   Designation of officers; duties
   
31.083   President Pro Tem
   
31.084   Oath
   
31.085   Signature
Chairperson of Accounts and Finances
   
31.100   General powers; subordinates
   
31.101   Bond
   
31.102   Supervision over books and accounts
   
31.103   Audit of accounts and reports
   
31.104   Fiscal year
   
31.105   Public service utilities
   
31.106   Shall be purchasing agent; custody of deeds, and the like
   
31.107   Printing and supplies; requisition for
   
31.108   Purchases; must be authorized when
   
31.109   Monthly reports by officers handling money; proceedings in case of
default
   
31.110   Appropriation; no warrant against when exhausted
   
31.111   Unexpended balances to General Fund
   
31.112   Improvements; record of; validity of contract for
   
31.113   Attend tax sales
   
31.114   Annual report; publication
   
31.115   Annual estimate
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 SALARIES.
   (A)   The following officers of the village shall receive compensation at
the following rates:
 
President:                    $125 per meeting until April 30, 2025. Thereafter
                              $137.50 per meeting.
                              $125 per meeting.
Trustees:                     Trustees for terms beginning May 1, 2025 or
                              thereafter $137.50 per meeting.
Clerk:                        $500 per meeting until April 30, 2025. Thereafter
                              as set by Board for appointed clerk.
Collector:                    $300 per month until April 30, 2025. Thereafter
                              as set by Board for appointed collector.
Treasurer:                    $750 per month until April 30, 2025. Thereafter
                              $850 per month.
Combined Zoning Board Member: $125 per meeting until April 30, 2025. Thereafter
                              $137.50 per meeting.
Liquor Commissioner:          $40 per month until April 30, 2025.
                              Thereafter $44 per month.
 
   (B)   As used herein, MEETING means any regular or special meeting.
   (C)   Officers will be paid for attending a meeting whether or not the
meeting is cancelled or postponed due to no quorum physically present.
   (D)   An officer may miss four meetings per year and still be paid for the
meeting although absent.
   (E)   An officer attending a meeting remotely will not be considered absent
from a meeting.
(1975 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. 2015-04-21, passed - -; Ord. 2020-9-28, passed 9-
28-2020; Ord. 2022-03-30, passed 3-20-2022; Ord. 2024-10-16C, passed 10-16-
2024)
§ 31.002 HOURLY EMPLOYEES; PAY.
   (A)   Starting pay. The Village President is hereby authorized to hire, in
consultation with the department chair, and to establish an hourly rate of pay
for new employees at an amount the Village President determines appropriate
based on the best interests of the village, taking into consideration village
needs and the skills and abilities of the new employee. The starting hourly
rate of pay for a new employee shall not exceed $20 per hour, without express
approval from the Village Board. The hourly rate of pay established by the
Village President shall remain in effect until such time as the Village Board
adjusts or modifies such rate of pay.
   (B)   Probationary period. All hourly employees shall serve a probationary
period of three months commencing upon the date of hire. During the
probationary period, an employee may be discharged from employment for any
lawful reason.
   (C)   Probationary review. Upon successful completion of the probationary
period, the Village Board may grant a wage increase to the employee as
determined by the Board.
   (D)   Annual review. Each employee’s work performance shall be reviewed
annually each April. The Village Board may, each May, in its sole discretion,
grant a wage increase to an employee provided the employee has a successful
annual review. The amount of any wage increase, if any, shall be determined by
the Village Board.
   (E)   Overtime. Employees shall be entitled to overtime pay at time and one-
half (one and one- half times the hourly rate) of their hourly rate for time
worked over 40 hours in a work week as required by law. Employees called back
or called in early shall be entitled to overtime pay at time and one-half (1.5
times the hourly rate) for such hours outside the regular work day.
   (F)   Premium pay. Employees will be entitled to double time (two times the
hourly rate) of their hourly rate for work on the following days, provided they
worked their regular scheduled shift the day before and the day after the
holiday:
      (1)   New Year's Day;
      (2)   Memorial Day;
      (3)   Fourth of July;
      (4)   Labor Day;
      (5)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (6)   The Day After Thanksgiving;
      (7)   Christmas Eve; and
      (8)   Christmas Day.
   (G)   Work week. Employees work week shall be seven days starting on Monday
and ending on the following Sunday.
   (H)   Paid leave.
      (1)   Village employees will be allowed paid leave based upon the
following schedule.New employees hired on or after January 1, 2024 are eligible
to take paid leave after 90 days of being employed by the village. Employees
will accrue vacation leave as follows:
         (a)   New employees will accrue paid time off at the rate of one hour
for every 40 hours worked up to a maximum accrual of 40 hours in a year.
         (b)   After two years of employment employees will accrue paid time
off at the rate of two hours for every 40 hours worked up to a maximum accrual
of 80 hours in a year.
         (c)   After five years of employment employees will accrue paid time
off at the rate of three hours for every 40 hours worked up to a maximum of 120
hours in a year.
      (2)   An employee who earns paid leave in accordance with this section
may carry over their accrued paid time off from year-to-year, except that no
employees may carry over more than one week, or 40 hours, of unused paid time
off. An employee’s anniversary date shall be the deadline by which employees
must use or carryover unused paid leave in accordance with this section. Paid
leave will be approved and scheduled by the employee's department head. Paid
leave time must be used in increments of no less than one-quarter day (two
hours).
      (3)   Normally, requests for use of paid leave must be made at least two
weeks in advance of when the leave is proposed to be taken. The village will
make every effort to accommodate an employee's leave request; however, requests
for time off may be denied if they cannot be accommodated. If there is a
conflict in scheduling paid leave between employees in an individual
department, the employee with the greater seniority shall be given priority;
otherwise, to the extent that time is available, paid leave requests will be
granted on a first come, first served basis. If an employee's employment is
terminated for any reason, that employee will receive pay at his or her regular
hourly rate of pay as of the date of termination for any unused paid leave
days, including days accrued but unused during the current year.
(Ord. 2016-11-22, passed 11-22-2016; Ord. 2018-3-20, passed 3-20-2018; Ord.
2022-12-21E, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-6-21B, passed 6-21-2023; Ord. 2023-8-
16, passed 8-16-2023)
§ 31.003 APPOINTMENTS.
   The President, with the consent of the Board, shall make appointments to
fill all appointive offices, and employees shall be selected by the President,
in the absence of provision to the contrary; provided that full time members of
the Police and Fire Departments shall be subject to their rules and
regulations; governing their appointments.
(1975 Code, § 10-102)
§ 31.004 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office for a term of one
year or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified unless it is
otherwise provided by law or ordinance. Employees selected shall serve so long
as their services are desired.
(1975 Code, § 10-102)
§ 31.005 ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The President shall have the power to assign to any appointive office any
duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer, and
shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or
duties of officers.
(1975 Code, § 10-103)
§ 31.006 RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officer of the village shall be open to inspection
by the President, or any member of the Board at all reasonable times, whether
or not such records are required to be kept by statute or ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 10-104)
§ 31.007 MONEYS RECEIVED.
   Every officer of the village shall at least once every day turn over all
moneys received by him or her in his or her official capacity to the Village
Treasurer with a statement which shows the source from which the same was
received.
(1975 Code, § 10-105)
§ 31.008 OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of §§ 5 through 15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5
ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act,
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section)
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts, prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms “officer” and “employee” shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities; however, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2004)
§ 31.009 CHAIRPERSON OF THE WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The President shall appoint a Trustee to act as a Chairperson of the Water
Department for the village, who shall have general control and supervision of
the potable water distribution system in the village. The Chairperson shall
supervise the Department and its employees. All expenditures for the Department
shall be approved by ordinance.
(Ord. 09-10e, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.010 DRAINAGE CHAIRPERSON.
   The President shall appoint a Trustee to act as Chairperson of the
Department of Drainage who shall be responsible for all culverts, ditches,
tiling and flooding issues for the village. The Chairperson shall supervise the
Department and its employees. All expenditures for the Department shall be
approved by ordinance.
(Ord. 09-10e, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.011 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   Any village officer, including any elected village official, has the
authority to administer oaths of office within the village.
(Ord. 2009-9a, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 31.012 OFFICE OF COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the office of Collector, permitted
by statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5), which shall be an appointed office, which
shall be held by the Village Clerk, as also permitted by statute (65 ILCS 5/
3.1-35-120).
   (B)   Compensation. The Collector will be compensated at the wage scale set
by the Board of Trustees, and this compensation will be separate and in
addition to compensation established for the office of Village Clerk, as
permitted by state statute (65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-25).
   (C)   Bond. The bond executed for Village Clerk shall also cover the
Collector if the same person holds the position.
   (D)   Duties. 
      (1)   Insofar as the duties of the Collector will involve handling of
moneys, and will coincide with duties shared by the Village Clerk, the same
requirements stated will apply.
      (2)   All moneys received will be turned over to the Village Treasurer
promptly upon receipt of the same, and with such moneys will give a statement
as to the source thereof.
   (E)   Accounts. The Collector shall keep accounts showing moneys received
and source and disposition thereof, and other such accounts as may be required
by statute or ordinance.
   (F)   Additional duties. In addition to the duties herein provided, the
Collector shall perform other such duties and functions as may be requires by
statue or ordinance.
   (G)   Discontinuation of office. The Board of Trustees may discontinue this
office and devolve the duties of this office upon a two-thirds majority vote,
to take effect at the end of the current fiscal year in which said vote was
taken, as per state statute.
(Ord. 2009-3a, passed 3-17-2009; Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 31.013 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Appointment. There is hereby created the office of Corporate Counsel.
The President, with the advice and consent of the Village Board, shall retain
an attorney to act as legal advisor to the village.
(1975 Code, § 9-101)
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party,
or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any
officer of the village on behalf of the village or in the capacity of such
person as an officer of the village.
(1975 Code, § 9-102)
   (C)   Advice. The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever
requested to do so by any village official. Upon request by the President or
Village Board, he or she shall reduce such opinion to writing.
(1975 Code, § 9-103)
   (D)   Drafting ordinances and contracts. It shall be the duty of the Village
Board to draft or supervise the phraseology of any contracts, leases or other
documents or instruments, to which the village may be a party; and to draft
ordinances and resolutions covering any subjects within the powers of the
municipality.
(1975 Code, § 9-104)
§ 31.014 SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Background. Harassment on the basis of a person’s sex, or perceived
sex, or sexual orientation, by a supervisor, coworker or other person is a
discriminatory practice winch violates Illinois law and Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964 and regulations passed by the United States Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission and Illinois Human Rights Act. Aside from being illegal,
sexual harassment undermines the integrity of individual work relationships and
damages the morale of the entire work force.
   (B)   Policy. It is the policy of the village that all patrons, officers,
employees and non-employees, are entitled to work in an environment free from
all forms of illegal discrimination including discrimination based upon a
person's sex or perceived sex or sexual orientation. Accordingly, any practice
or activity that constitutes sexual harassment is strictly forbidden within
village work places and shall, if substantiated in accordance with this policy,
result in disciplinary action. As used in this policy, a non-employee is a
person directly performing work for the Village of Wapella, pursuant to a
contract with the Village of Wapella, and not otherwise an employee of the
Village of Wapella. As used herein, a patron is a person using goods and
services provided by the Village of Wapella and directly interacting with a
village officer, employee or non-employee.
   (C)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   Definition. SEXUAL HARASSMENT is defined as an unwelcome sexual
advance, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of a person’s employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by a person is used
as a basis for employment decisions affecting that person;
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably
interfering with a person’s work performance; or
         (d)   Such conduct creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive work
environment.
         (e)   Such conduct is intimidating, hostile, or offensive to a patron
of the village.
      (2)   Sanctions. Sexual harassment is a serious violation of the work
rules of the village and, if proven, shall be grounds for the imposition of
discipline. Potential sanctions for the offense shall range from a minimum of a
five days suspension without pay to termination, depending upon the following:
         (a)   The individual facts of any given case; and
         (b)   The employment record of the person committing such harassment.
   (D)   Employee rights. Any person who believes they are the victim of
illegal sexual harassments may file a complaint with the village within a
reasonable period of time after the event (normally not more than 180 days).
Victims of illegal sexual harassment may also have the right to file a
complaint with the Illinois Department of Human Rights or the U.S. Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission or Department of Justice.
   (E)   Retaliation prohibited. No person filing a complaint under this policy
or who legitimately assists another in the prosecution of any such complaint
shall be subjected to retribution or retaliation of any kind for doing so.
   (F)   Filing complaints.
      (1)   Filing of complaints. All complaints of sexual harassment shall be
filed with either an immediate supervisor or in the alternative with the Mayor
or Village Attorney.
      (2)   Investigation.
         (a)   Complaints filed under this policy shall be promptly and
thoroughly investigated by an individual designated by the Mayor.
         (b)   Upon completion of the investigation, the person conducting the
investigation shall prepare a report addressing all allegations in the
complaint and objectively documenting all relevant factual findings of the
investigation. The investigatory report shall contain neither conclusions
concerning the complaint nor recommendations as to disposition.
         (c)   The investigative report shall be presented to the Mayor upon
completion and within 15 days after receipt of the complaint. This time
requirement may be extended by the Mayor, in writing, upon request of the
investigator and good cause shown for such an extension.
   (G)   Adjudication.
      (1)   All complaints of sexual harassment shall be adjudicated by the
Mayor or the Mayor’s designee in the event the Mayor is unable to discharge
this duty. Such adjudicative hearing shall be closed to the public.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the completed investigative report, the Mayor, or
designee, shall conduct an administrative hearing at which the report shall be
presented and considered. Hearings shall be conducted before a court reporter
empowered to take testimony under oath. The court reporter shall require all
witnesses to provide testimony under oath and shall prepare a verbatim
transcription or recording of the proceedings which shall serve as the official
record of the hearing.
      (3)   The accused employee shall be notified, in writing, at least ten
days before the hearing of the complaint and the underlying allegations. The
accused employee may request one postponement of the hearing upon receipt of
the notice in order to obtain legal counsel; however, the delay occasioned by
such request shall not exceed 30 days from the date of receipt of the notice by
the accused employee.
      (4)   The accused employee shall be entitled to attend the hearing and
testify in his or her own behalf, and shall be entitled to confront and cross-
examine the employee who filed the complaint. In the event that the complainant
elects not to attend the administrative hearing and upon objection from the
accused to the complainant’s absence, the complaint may be dismissed and the
accused deemed innocent of the allegations.
      (5)   The accused employee shall be entitled to call witnesses in his or
her own behalf and to introduce evidence which bears upon the issues presented
by the complaint and investigative report.
      (6)   At the conclusion of the hearing, or within five days thereafter,
the Mayor, or designee, shall make findings concerning the innocence or guilt
of the accused to the offense of sexual harassment.
      (7)   A finding of guilt must be supported by substantial, credible
evidence that:
         (a)   The facts alleged by the complaint to have occurred are true;
         (b)   Those facts constitute sexual harassment within the meaning of
this policy; and
         (c)   The accused is the person who committed the acts amounting to
sexual harassment.
   (H)   Responsibility.
      (1)   Supervisors. Each supervisor has a responsibility to maintain the
work place free of sexual harassment. This duty includes discussing this policy
with all employees and assuring them that they are not to endure insulting,
degrading or exploitative sexual treatment.
      (2)   Village. It is the responsibility of the village to:
         (a)   Provide information to managers and supervisors regarding this
policy specifically, and sexual harassment generally; the gravity of such
behavior; and the procedure to be employed in the event a complaint of sexual
harassment is made or conduct amounting to sexual harassment is observed; and
         (b)   Provide necessary training to managers and supervisors in order
to reduce the likelihood of sexual harassment in the work place.
   (I)   False accusations. Due to the serious and private nature of this
offense, false accusations of sexual harassment are, and will be treated as, a
disciplinary offense and will result in the same level of punishment as that
applied to one who engages in such behavior.
   (J)   Protections. Persons reporting sexual harassment may also be protected
from retaliation pursuant to the Illinois Whistleblower Act, the Illinois Human
Relations Act and the Illinois State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (K)   It is the policy of the Village of Wapella to provide an independent
review of allegations of sexual harassment made against an elected official of
the Village of Wapella. Any elected official, employee, non-employee or patron
may file a sexual harassment complaint with the attorney for the Village of
Wapella. Such complaint shall be promptly reviewed and investigated. All
proceedings shall be private. A written report shall be submitted to the Board
of Trustees including findings of fact and a determination whether or not the
complaint is founded. If the complaint is founded the Board of Trustees shall
determine the appropriate remedy. Pursuant to the protections set forth in this
section and Illinois law, no retaliation may be taken against any person who
files a complaint. Complainants may have other protections and remedies to file
complaints with the Illinois Human Rights Department, the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, the United States Department of Justice and
other federal or state agencies.
(Ord. 2017-19-12, passed 12-19-2017; Ord. 2020-02-18, passed 2-18-2020)
§ 31.015 WHISTLEBLOWER REPORTING AND ANTI-RETALIATION POLICY AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   General policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Wapella ("village") to act in accordance with Illinois Public Act
101-652 generally, and specifically Section 4.1 of the Public Officer
Prohibited Activities Act ("Act").
      (2)   It is the policy of the village to prohibit any official from
retaliating against any employee who: (a) reports an improper governmental
action, (b) cooperates in the investigation related to a report of an improper
governmental action, or (c) testifies in a proceeding or prosecution of an
improper governmental action. An improper governmental action is defined as
follows.
         (a)   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION includes any action by a unit of
local government employee, an appointed member of a board, commission, or
committee, or an elected official of the unit of local government that is
undertaken in violation of federal, state, or unit of local government law or
rule; is an abuse of authority; violates the public's trust or expectation of
his or her conduct; is of substantial and specific danger to the public's
health or safety; or is a gross waste of public funds.
         (b)   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION does not include a unit of local
government personnel actions, including, but not limited to employee
grievances, complaints, appointments, promotions, transfers, assignments,
reassignments, reinstatements, restorations, reemployment, performance
evaluations, reductions in pay, dismissals, suspensions, demotions, reprimands,
or violations of collective bargaining agreements, except to the extent the
actions amount to retaliation. Retaliation, in this context, means retaliatory
action that results from an employee's protected activity of reporting improper
governmental action, cooperating in the investigation, proceeding or
prosecution of a reported improper governmental action.
      (3)   Copies of this policy and procedure, along with a copy of Section
4.1 of Public Act 101-652 will be given to every employee upon hiring.
Additionally, these same documents will be furnished or made available to all
employees on an annual basis.
   (B)   Procedures for reporting improper governmental action or retaliation.
      (1)   If an employee believes that he/she has witnessed an improper
governmental action, as defined in the policy above, the employee must submit a
written report of the improper governmental action to the Auditing Official,
which Auditing Official has been designated in division (E) of this section.
      (2)   If an employee believes that he/she has been retaliated against for
reporting improper governmental action, or cooperating in the investigation, or
procedure involving an improper governmental action, the employee must report
such alleged retaliation to the Auditing Official within 60 days of the
retaliatory action taking place.
      (3)   The Auditing Official may transfer the complaint to another
auditing official, including the States Attorney, if he/she determines that it
is appropriate.
      (4)   If the Auditing Official is also the subject of the complaint, the
complainant may file the complaint with any States Attorney.
   (C)   Investigation of complaint of improper governmental action or
retaliation.
      (1)   The Auditing Official will keep the identity of the complainant
confidential to the extent allowed by law. The complainant may waive
confidentiality in writing on a form presented to the Auditing Official.
      (2)   The Auditing Official shall investigate the complaint promptly and
thoroughly and conclude whether or not the evidence gathered through such
investigation warrants merit of a finding that either an improper governmental
action, or retaliation for filing such a complaint or complying with such
investigation occurred or did not occur.
      (3)   The investigation by the Auditing Official may include:
         (a)   Interviews of the complainant and witnesses;
         (b)   Interviews of governmental officials who may have knowledge
about the complaint or may be the subject of the complaint;
         (c)   Inspection of documentation (in written, printed, or electronic
format) relevant to the complaint;
         (d)   Take any other appropriate measures to ensure that the complaint
has been thoroughly investigated.
         (e)   Make a determination whether the complaint has merit or whether
the complaint does not have merit.
   (D)   Auditing Official determination and remedial action if necessary.
      (1)   If the Auditing Official determines that the complaint has no
merit, he/she can dismiss the complaint.
      (2)   If the Auditing Official determines that the complaint has merit,
he/she may take remedial action on behalf of the complainant, including
reinstatement, reimbursement for lost wages or expenses, promotion, or other
remedial action that the Auditing Official deems appropriate. The Auditing
Official may also make his/her investigation findings available to the
complainant's attorney if the Auditing Official finds that restitution is not
sufficient.
      (3)   Any person who engages in prohibited retaliation under Section 4.1
of Public Act 101-652 may also be subject to fines, appropriate employment
action, civil or criminal prosecution, or any combination of these actions.
   (E)   Designation of Auditing Official. The village designates the Mayor to
serve as the Auditing Official of the village, with the duties and
responsibilities set forth in 50 ILCS 105/4.1 and this policy, and the City
Attorney to serve as the alternate Auditing Official in the event the Mayor is
unable or unavailable to serve. In the event no one is designated, or the
designated officials cannot act for any reason then the local State's Attorney
shall act as the Auditing Official pursuant to this policy.
(Ord. 2021-8-25, passed 8-25-2021)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.025 APPOINTMENT.
   Effective May 1, 2025, the Village Clerk shall no longer be elected, but
rather appointed by the Village President, with the concurrence of the Village
Board, in conformity with the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90).
(1975 Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2024-10-16B,
passed 10-16-2024)
§ 31.026 TERM; VACANCY; UNDER CONTROL OF CHAIRPERSON OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall hold his or her office for a term of four
years and until his or her successor is elected and has qualified. If a vacancy
occurs in the office of Village Clerk, it shall be filled by the President,
with the advice and consent of the Village Board, and the person so appointed
shall hold office until the next regular or special municipal election in the
village.
   (B)   His or her duties shall be such as are prescribed by law or ordinance,
and in addition thereto such other duties as may be imposed upon him or her
from time to time by the Village Board or the Chairperson of Accounts and
Finances.
   (C)   He or she shall be under the direction and supervision of said
Chairperson of Accounts and Finances.
(1975 Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 2019-10-1, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2021-03-16, passed
3-16-2021; Ord. 2022- 12-21E, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 31.027 BOND; OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall take
the oath prescribed for all village officers, and execute and deliver a bond
payable to the village in the penal sum of $5,000 with sureties to be approved
by the Village Board, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties
of his or her office, which bond shall be filed with the Village Treasurer.
(1975 Code, § 7-103)
§ 31.028 FEES; PROPERTY OF VILLAGE.
   All fees payable by law to the Village Clerk shall be the property of the
village.
(1975 Code, § 7-104)
§ 31.029 CORPORATE SEAL.
   The Village Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided under the
direction of the Village Board, and with the corporate seal shall attest all
instruments and documents required to be so attested.
(1975 Code, § 7-105)
§ 31.030 ATTEND VILLAGE BOARD; CLERK THEREOF; RECORD.
   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Village Board, and shall
be Clerk of said Board, and shall keep a full record of its proceedings in the
journal.
(1975 Code, § 7-106)
§ 31.031 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   The Village Clerk shall record, in a book to be kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Village Board, and at the foot of the record of each
ordinance so recorded shall make a memorandum of the date of the presentment,
passage, approval, recording, publication or posting of such ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 7-107)
§ 31.032 NOTICES; CLERK TO ISSUE.
   The Village Clerk shall issue such notices as may be directed by the Village
Board, and notify all persons whose attendance may be required before the
Village Board or any committee thereof, and also shall issue notices of special
meetings.
(1975 Code, § 7-108)
§ 31.033 LICENSES; CLERK TO ATTEST.
   The Village Clerk shall attest with the corporate seal all licenses granted
by the Village Board under the ordinances of the village.
(1975 Code, § 7-109)
§ 31.034 SHALL DELIVER ORDINANCES AND OTHER DOCUMENTS UPON REQUEST.
   The Village Clerk shall, without delay, deliver to the President or any
Chairperson:
   (A)   All resolutions and communications referring to such officers; and
   (B)   All ordinances and resolutions under his or her charge which may be
required to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the President or which shall
be requested by the President or any of the Chairpersons, together with all
papers for which the same were founded.
(1975 Code, § 7-110)
§ 31.035 MONTHLY STATEMENT.
   The Village Clerk shall pay over monthly to the Village Treasurer all moneys
received by him or her for the village on any account whatever, and shall
submit a monthly statement thereof in writing to the Village Board, when
required.
(1975 Code, § 7-111)
§ 31.036 REGISTER OF CHECKS; RECEIPTS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep in a suitable book an accurate list of all
checks drawn upon the Village Treasurer. Said books shall show the date, number
and amount of each, and the name of the person in whose favor drawn, and shall
take the receipt of every person for every warrant upon delivery thereof.
(1975 Code, § 7-112)
§ 31.037 BILLS; CLAIMS; WHERE FILED; REPORT UPON; RECORD OF; OATH
   (A)   All bills, claims, demands and accounts against the village shall be
filed in the office of the Village Clerk. He or she shall report to the Village
Board upon all bills, claims, demands and accounts before they are acted upon
or allowed, unless otherwise provided by law. He or she shall register all said
bills, claims, demands, accounts and the like, in a book suitable for the
purpose, and shall therein keep a record of the disposition of said bills,
claims, demands, accounts and the like.
   (B)   He or she may require a statement in writing, under oath as to any
fact, matter or thing concerning the justness of any such bills, claims,
accounts and demands presented against the village.
(1975 Code, § 7-113)
§ 31.038 WARRANT FOR BILL.
   The Village Clerk shall draw his or her checks which shall be signed by the
Mayor or the Village Clerk and counter-signed by the Village Treasurer in due
form, upon the Village Treasurer for all such bills, claims, accounts, demands,
payrolls and the like, allowed by the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 7-114) (Ord. 719-11b, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 31.039 DOCUMENT RETENTION.
   The Village Clerk is responsible for the safekeeping of all documents
whether paper or electronic belonging to the village. The Clerk shall retain
all documents for five years from the earlier of the date on the document or
the date of receipt Any document older than five years shall be destroyed. This
rule shall not apply to ordinances, resolutions, the village code, the zoning
code, to written contracts having terms lasting more than five years, to any
documents which may create a liability lasting more than five years or to any
other document designated for permanent storage by the President or the Village
Attorney.
(1975 Code, § 7-115) (Ord. 09-11d, passed 11-7-2009)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.050 ELECTION.
    There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer, who shall be
appointed annually by the President, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board, on the first meeting in May of each year or as soon thereafter as is
practicable.
(1975 Code, § 8-101) (Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 31.051 TERM OF OFFICE.
   He or she shall hold his or her office for the term of one year and until
his or her successor is appointed and has qualified. His or her duties shall be
such as are prescribed by law or ordinance, and in addition thereto such other
duties as may be imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Village
Board.
(1975 Code, § 8-102)
§ 31.052 BOND; OATH.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall take
the oath prescribed for all village officers, and shall execute and deliver a
bond payable to the village in the penal sum of $5,000 with sureties to be
approved by the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 8-103)
§ 31.053 SHALL RECEIVE CORPORATE MONEY; ACCOUNTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the corporation
and shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and the debits
and credits belonging thereto.
(1975 Code, § 8-104)
§ 31.054 MONTHLY ACCOUNT.
   The Village Treasurer shall render at the end of each month, and more often
if required, an account to the Chairperson of Accounts and Finances, showing
the state of the treasury at the date of such account and the balance of the
money in the treasury. He or she shall also accompany such account, with a
statement of all moneys received in the treasury and on what account, together
with all warrants redeemed and paid by him or her when requested.
(1975 Code, § 8-105)
§ 31.055 REGISTER AND CANCEL WARRANTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep an accurate register of all warrants
redeemed and paid by him or her, showing the number, date and amount of each,
the fund from which paid, and the name of the person to whom and where paid,
and he or she shall cancel all warrants as soon as redeemed by him or her.
(1975 Code, § 8-106)
§ 31.056 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND KEPT SEPARATE.
   All moneys received on any special assessment shall be held by said Village
Treasurer as a special fund, to be applied to the payment of the improvement
for which the assessment was made, and said money shall not be used for any
other purpose whatever, unless to reimburse the village for money expended for
such improvement out of its General Fund.
(1975 Code, § 8-107)
§ 31.057 RECEIPTS.
   The Village Treasurer shall give every person paying money into the treasury
a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment, and upon what account paid,
and he or she shall also file copies of such receipts with the Village Clerk at
the date of his or her monthly reports.
(1975 Code, § 8-108)
§ 31.058 KEEP CORPORATE MONEY SEPARATE; PRIVATE USE.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep all moneys belonging to the corporation in
his or her hands separate and distinct from his or her own moneys and he or she
hereby expressly is prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the
corporation money or warrants in his or her custody and keeping for his or her
own use and benefit, or that of any other person or persons whomsoever. Any
violation of this provision shall subject him or her to immediate removal from
his or her office by the Village Board, which is authorized to declare said
office vacant and in which case a successor shall be appointed who shall hold
his or her office for the remainder of the unexpired term of such officer so
removed.
(1975 Code, § 8-109) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.059 WARRANTS; HOW SIGNED; CONTENTS.
   All warrants drawn upon the Treasurer must be signed by the President of the
Village Board, the Village Clerk, and countersigned by the Treasurer, stating
the particular fund to which the same shall be chargeable and the person to
whom payable. No money shall be otherwise paid than upon such warrant so drawn,
excepting as otherwise provided by law.
(1975 Code, § 8-110)
§ 31.060 DAILY DEPOSITS.
   The said Village Treasurer shall make daily deposits of such sums of money
as shall be received by him or her from all sources of revenue whatsoever, to
his or her credit, as Treasurer of the village, in the bank designated as the
village depository as hereinafter prescribed.
(1975 Code, § 8-111)
§ 31.061 CITY DEPOSITORY; SELECTION; INTEREST; COLLECTION OF; BOND.
   (A)   The moneys of the village shall be deposited in a bank located in the
City of Clinton, to be selected by the Village Board.
   (B)   The said President, Chairperson of Accounts and Finances and the
Village Treasurer, in the selection of any such depository bank, shall take
into consideration the reputation and solvency thereof and the sufficiency of
the security offered by such bank.
   (C)   All interest paid by any such bank upon any balance shall be collected
by the Village Treasurer, and shall be reported by him or her in his or her
next statement showing such collection and shall be considered and treated as
part of the General Fund of the village, subject to use for any legitimate
municipal purpose.
(1975 Code, § 8-112)
§ 31.062 ANNUAL ACCOUNT; PUBLICATION.
   The said Village Treasurer shall annually, by September 1, make out and file
with the Village Clerk, a full and detailed account of all his or her receipts
and expenditures, and of all his or her transactions as such Treasurer, during
the preceding fiscal year, and shall show in such account the state of the
treasury at the close of the fiscal year.
(1975 Code, § 8-113)
§ 31.063 BOOKS; CONTENTS OF; OPEN TO EXAMINATION.
   He or she shall open and keep in a neat and methodical manner a complete set
of books, in which, among other things, shall be set forth the appropriations
of the fiscal year for each distinct object and branch of expenditures, and
also the receipts from each and every source of revenue, so far as he or she
can ascertain the same. Said books, and all contracts, bonds, debts, warrants,
vouchers, receipts and other papers kept in his or her office, shall be subject
to the examination of the President and Chairpersons at all reasonable hours.
(1975 Code, § 8-114)
§ 31.064 ACCOUNTS OF REVENUE, DEBTS, BONDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Said Village Treasurer shall keep a detailed account of the village’s
revenue, and of each separate fund, crediting the same with all its receipts or
appropriations and charging it with all warrants drawn thereon; and he or she
shall charge each warrant to the fund or appropriation against which it is
drawn.
   (B)   He or she shall also keep an accurate account of all debts due from or
owing to the village and shall keep a book in which he or she shall enter a
correct list of all bonds, notes or other obligations given by or payable to
said village, with the date thereof, the person to whom or by whom payable, and
such other particulars as may be necessary to the full understanding thereof.
(1975 Code, § 8-115)
§ 31.065 BOND REGISTER; REPORT.
   Said Village Treasurer shall keep in his or her office in a book expressly
for that purpose, to be known as the bond register, a full and correct list of
all outstanding bonds of said village, showing the number, amount, time of
maturity, rate of interest and place of payment of each bond; and for what and
to whom the same was issued; and when any village bonds are surrendered,
canceled or paid, said register shall show the fact, and in his or her annual
report to the Village Board, the said Treasurer shall describe particularly the
bonds sold, exchanged or redeemed during the fiscal year and give an itemized
statement of the expenses thereof.
(1975 Code, § 8-116)
§ 31.066 RECORDS OF COLLECTIONS.
   He or she shall keep a complete record of all money turned over to him or
her by any department, and he or she shall keep a complete record of all of the
said payments made by any department.
(1975 Code, § 8-117)
§ 31.067 PAYMENT OF CERTAIN BILLS.
   (A)   By virtue of the authority granted to the Treasurer by Ord. 09-11A,
the Treasurer is authorized to pay the following invoices upon receipt or
within the first due date set forth in the invoice as negotiated with the
vendor; without prior approval of the Board but only after approval of the
department head responsible for the invoice and the Chair of Accounts and
Finance:
      (1)   Any utility; and
      (2)   Any regular provider of services to the village.
   (B)   In his or her regular report to the Board of Trustees, the Treasurer
must include each bill paid in the consent agenda items for ratification of his
or her payment.
(1975 Code, § 8-118) (Ord. 09-11b, passed 11-18-2009)
§ 31.068 COLLECTION OF FUNDS BY VILLAGE CLERK OR TREASURER.
   Any charges, rates, license fees, fines or other moneys, as hereinafter
provided for by ordinance of the village, to be paid to the Village Clerk or
Treasurer may be paid in cash, by check, or credit card, or by other approved
medium of exchange. The village reserves the right to require payment by
immediately available funds or cash in its sole discretion. The village may
impose a reasonable convenience fee for payment by credit card as allowed by 50
ILCS 345/25. It is hereby expressly provided, however, that a payor by check
thereby expressly agrees to pay to the village a charge of $25 for each check
returned or dishonored by the payor's bank. Such charges are immediately due
and payable upon demand by the village therefor. Each statement for service
charges shall contain the following phrase: “An additional service charge of
$25.00 is assessed upon any check being returned or dishonored by payor's
bank.”
(Ord. 2019-7-2A, passed 7-2-2019)
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 31.080 DUTIES.
   (A)   The President shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and
shall preside over the meetings of the Board. He or she shall perform all
duties as required of him or her by all statutes and all ordinances. He or she
shall have general supervision and oversight of all departments and offices of
the village government This authority for general supervision does not include
the right to intercede with day to day operations of a department or to
supervise the employees of a department absent an emergency or the
unavailability of the department head. All employees of a particular department
shall report directly to the Department Chairperson and any concerns,
grievances or items of discussion by an employee must be first presented to the
Chairperson of the department. If the Chairperson desires to have the President
involved in the matter he or she may do so or the President may under his or
her general supervision authority speak to the Chairperson about the subject
matter. If the President has a concern about the performance of an employee of
a department he or she may not direct his or her concerns to the employee, but
must direct his or her concerns to the Chairperson.
   (B)   The President shall be the supervisor of the Village Attorney.
   (C)   The President shall be the ESDA liaison officer to the county
emergency services and disaster agency.
(1975 Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009; Ord. 2010-1, passed 1-26-
2010; Ord. 2019-10-1, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2021-03-16, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 31.081 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The President shall appoint with the advice and consent of the Village Board
all officers of the village whose election or appointment is not otherwise
provided for by law.
(1975 Code, § 3-102) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.082 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS; DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respected duties or the power of any
appointed officer of the village this dispute shall be settled by the President
after such consultation with the Village Attorney he or she deems necessary.
(1975 Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.083 PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   During any absence or disability of a President, the Village Board shall
elect one of its members to act as President Pro Tem. This person shall posses
the powers of President during the absence or disability.
(1975 Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.084 OATH.
   (A)   Before entering upon the duties of office, the President shall take
and subscribe the oath or affirmation described by the Constitution of the
state. This oath or affirmation shall be signed by the President and filed with
the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The President shall also sign and deliver a bond payable to the
village in the sum of $5,000 with sureties to be approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   The bond shall be filed with the Village Treasurer.
(1975 Code, § 3-105) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009)
§ 31.085 SIGNATURE.
   The President shall sign all contracts on behalf of the village. The
President shall sign all deeds for the sale of any real estate authorized by
the Board and is authorized to sign any other documents necessary to convey or
purchase real estate after approval by the Board in accordance with law.
(1975 Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 09-10d, passed 10-27-2009)
CHAIRPERSON OF ACCOUNTS AND FINANCES
§ 31.100 GENERAL POWERS; SUBORDINATES.
   (A)   The Chairperson of Accounts and Finances shall have general
supervision and control over all matters relating to the finances or revenues
of the village, and he or she shall have supervision over the activities of all
officers, boards and departments in so far as said activities directly affect
the city’s finances or revenues.
   (B)    The Village Clerk, Village Treasurer, Village Collector, Village FOIA
Officer, and their respective offices or departments, and all employees
therein, all bookkeepers and accountants are apportioned and assigned to the
Department of Accounts and Finances, and shall be under the direction and
supervision of the Chairperson thereof, together with such other employees as
are necessary in said department. Parking meters and employees in regard
thereto shall be under said Chairperson.
(1975 Code, § 4-101) (Ord. 2019-10-1, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2021-03-16, passed
3-16-2021)
§ 31.101 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall
execute a bond payable to the village in the penal sum of $10,000, with
sureties to be approved by the Associate Judge of the Circuit Court of the
county, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office. The said bond shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 4-102)
§ 31.102 SUPERVISION OVER BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   He or she shall prescribe the manner in which books of the several
departments, insofar as they concern the receipt and disbursement of the
village funds, are kept, in order to establish uniformity therein, and he or
she shall see that these accounts are regularly and correctly kept. He or she
shall have the authority to charge a late fee up to $10 per month for any
account due the village not paid within 30 days.
(1975 Code, § 4-103) (Ord. 11-3, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 31.103 AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS.
   He or she shall audit, or cause to be audited, at frequent intervals the
accounts of every officer or employee who does or may receive or disburse
money, and shall examine and audit the reports of Village Treasurer, and annual
reports of all other officers of the village handling village funds.
(1975 Code, § 4-104)
§ 31.104 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall commence on July 1 in each year.
(1975 Code, § 4-105)
§ 31.105 PUBLIC SERVICE UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Chairperson of Accounts and Finances shall procure from all
persons or corporations operating public service utilities in the city and
cause to be placed on file such reports as they by law or ordinance or
otherwise are required to make to the village or any of its officers, and he or
she shall procure copies of such reports as are made to the state or to any
public office or department, and shall cause the same to be placed on file, and
shall collect, or cause to be collected all license fees, franchise taxes,
rentals or other moneys which may be due or become due to the village.
   (B)   He or she shall report to the Board of Trustees any failures to make
reports or pay money due to the village, with such recommendations in relation
thereto as he or she may deem proper. He or she shall, whenever the village has
authority so to do, cause to be examined the accounts and records of any person
or corporation operating a public service utility in the village and shall
report to the Board any refusal to permit such examination.
(1975 Code, § 4-106)
§ 31.106 SHALL BE PURCHASING AGENT; CUSTODY OF DEEDS, AND THE LIKE.
   The Chairperson of Accounts and Finances shall be the fiscal agent of the
village, and he or she shall be the purchasing agent, and as such shall have
charge and custody of all deeds, bonds, contracts, mortgages, notes, warrants,
vouchers, books and papers belonging to the village, except such as by law or
ordinance are directed to be deposited elsewhere.
(1975 Code, § 4-107)
§ 31.107 PRINTING AND SUPPLIES; REQUISITION FOR.
   The Chairperson of Accounts and Finances shall have charge of and
supervision over all printing by or for the village unless otherwise provided
by law. He or she shall have charge of and supervision over the purchase, care
and distribution of all supplies for all departments, unless otherwise provided
by law or ordinance, and all articles or things shall be ordered or purchased
only on a requisition on the Chairperson of Accounts and Finances signed by the
Chairperson for whose department the said article is to be purchased.
(1975 Code, § 4-108)
§ 31.108 PURCHASES; MUST BE AUTHORIZED WHEN.
   All purchases of goods of the value of $500 or more shall be approved by a
majority of the Chairpersons before such purchase is made or any contract
entered into therefor.
(1975 Code, § 4-109)
§ 31.109 MONTHLY REPORTS BY OFFICERS HANDLING MONEY; PROCEEDINGS IN CASE OF
DEFAULT.
   He or she shall require all officers charged in any manner with the receipt,
collection or disbursement of the village revenues to submit monthly reports in
writing, showing in detail all such receipts, collections and disbursements,
and to file the same in his or her office; and if any such officer shall
neglect to make such report or to adjust his or her accounts whenever so
required by said Chairperson, and to pay over to the proper officer any money
in his or her possession belonging to the village, it shall be the duty of the
said Chairperson to cause a written notice to be served on such officer and his
or her sureties demanding a settlement of his or her accounts with the village
forthwith; and in case of the neglect or refusal of such officer to make such
settlement and pay over such moneys for a period of ten days after the service
of said notice, the said Chairperson shall report such officer to the Mayor for
his or her action in the matter; and proceedings shall be instituted at once
against such delinquent officer and his or her sureties for the recovery of any
money due said village.
(1975 Code, § 4-110)
§ 31.110 APPROPRIATION; NO WARRANT AGAINST WHEN EXHAUSTED.
   Whenever any fund or appropriation is exhausted, the said Chairperson shall
without delay notify the Board of Trustees thereof.
(1975 Code, § 4-111)
§ 31.111 UNEXPENDED BALANCES TO GENERAL FUND.
   It shall be the duty of said Village Board to transfer and place to the
credit of the General Fund all unexpended balances of appropriation of former
years remaining at the time that the annual appropriation ordinance of each
year goes into effect; provided, that no such transfer shall be made or
disposition ordered of any trust fund, or any fund arising from special
assessment or special taxation; nor in case where contracts have been made or
liabilities incurred on account of any such appropriation and remain
uncompleted or unpaid at the time the appropriation ordinance goes into effect;
nor of any fund created for any purpose or the payment of any liability
exclusively provided for by taxation.
(1975 Code, § 4-112)
§ 31.112 IMPROVEMENTS; RECORD OF; VALIDITY OF CONTRACT FOR.
   Said Chairperson shall keep in the Village Clerk’s office a correct list of
all local or public improvements ordered by the Village Board and let under
contract by the village; and all contracts and specifications therefor, made by
authority of the Village Board, or by any officer or corporation pursuant
thereto in relation to such improvements, shall be filed in the said office,
and no such contract shall be valid unless countersigned by the President.
(1975 Code, § 4-113)
§ 31.113 ATTEND TAX SALES.
   The said Chairperson shall be authorized and it is hereby made his or her
duty, to attend all sales of real estate in said village made under proceedings
in the Circuit Court of the county to enforce the collection of any special tax
or special assessment levied and assessed by ordinance of the Village Board for
any public improvement, and to bid at such sales on behalf of the village.
(1975 Code, § 4-114)
§ 31.114 ANNUAL REPORT; PUBLICATION.
   Said Chairperson, within five months after May 1 in each year, shall make
out an annual report for publication, giving a statement of all the receipts
and revenues and expenditures of said city during the preceding year. Said
report shall also detail the condition of all unexpended appropriations, the
balance of money then remaining in the treasury, and all other matters
necessary to exhibit the true financial condition of the village, which report,
when examined and approved by the Village Board, shall be published by said
Trustees without delay.
(1975 Code, § 4-115)
§ 31.115 ANNUAL ESTIMATE.
   (A)   In addition to his or her other duties, the said Chairperson, on or
before May 15 in each year and before the annual appropriations are made by the
Village Board, shall submit to the said Village Board a statement of his or her
estimates, as nearly as may be, of the moneys necessary to defray the expenses
of the village during the current fiscal year. He or she shall in said
statement classify the different objects and branches of expenditures, giving
the amount required for each, as nearly as may be, and for the purpose of
making such statement, he or she is authorized to require of all city officers
statements of the condition and expenses of their respective offices or
departments, with any proposed improvements and probable expenses thereof, and
of all contracts made and uncompleted, and the amount of any and all unexpended
appropriations of the preceding fiscal year.
   (B)   He or she shall also in such statement show the aggregate income of
the preceding fiscal year from all sources, and amount of liabilities
outstanding upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts payable
during the year; when due and when payable; and he or she shall give therein
such other information to the Village Board as he or she may deem necessary to
the end, and that said Village Board may fully understand the money exigencies
and demands upon the village for the current year.
(1975 Code, § 4-116)
CHAPTER 32: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Prevailing Wage Act
   
32.02   Use of petty cash
   
32.03   National Incident Management System
   
32.04   Expense reimbursement policy
   
32.05   Municipal services denied
   
32.06   Destruction of certain records
   
32.07   Plan for operation and maintenance of water system
Licenses and Permits
   
32.15   Applications
   
32.16   Person subject to license
   
32.17   Forms
   
32.18   Signatures
   
32.19   Investigations
   
32.20   Fees
   
32.21   Termination of licenses
   
32.22   Building and premises
   
32.23   Change of location
   
32.24   Frontage consents
   
32.25   Nuisances
   
32.26   Inspections
   
32.27   Revocation
   
32.28   Posting license
   
32.29   Vehicle tag
   
32.30   Raffles and poker runs
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Gambling, see §§
130.01 through
130.04
   Sexual harassment policy, see §
31.014
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 PREVAILING WAGE ACT.
   In accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Prevailing Wage Act and
specifically 820 ILCS 130/4, it is ordained by the Board of Trustees and the
President of the village that all contracts for public work shall be pay for
labor of each craft at the prevailing wage as then determined by State
Department of Labor. This section applies to all general and subcontractors who
employer laborers who are fulfilling contracts for public works let by the
village. This section shall be continuing and shall remain in effect for all
fiscal years until repealed.
(Ord. 11-1, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 32.02 USE OF PETTY CASH.
   (A)   Recitals. The recitals in the ordinance codified herein are
incorporated as substantive portions hereof as though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Establishment of petty cash box. The Village Board hereby adopts the
following policy regarding the use of petty cash which shall provide as
follows.
   (C)   Petty cash policy.
      (1)   This policy sets forth the procedures for the handling and use of
petty cash moneys of the village. One petty cash box shall be located at the
Village Hall and shall be secured by the Village Clerk. Unless otherwise
designated, the Village Clerk shall be responsible for seeing that the total
number of receipts and cash equal the amounts detailed herein, for keeping
records of same, and for otherwise handling the petty cash box. The petty cash
box shall be audited, both by a quarterly schedule and surprise, by the
Chairperson of Accounts and Finances.
      (2)   Any village official who needs petty cash must fill out a Petty
Cash Request Form and submit it to the Village Clerk who shall maintain a file
of said requests. No one is allowed to take money from petty cash without a
Petty Cash Request Form, which must be signed and approved by either the
Village President or the Chairperson of Accounts and Finances. Petty cash shall
further not be used to reimburse any village official unless a Petty Cash
Request Form has been duly executed and approved and a receipt is provided with
the Form. When petty cash is used to purchase an item or service, a receipt
must be obtained and given to the Village Clerk.
      (3)   The petty cash box shall contain a maximum of only $100 and a
report of expenditures from petty cash shall be prepared by the Village Clerk
and presented to the Village Board on a quarterly basis.
(Ord. 719-11a, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 32.03 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   It shall be the public policy of the village to adopt the NIMS concept of
emergency planning and unified command. It shall further be the policy of this
village to train the public official responsible for emergency management.
(Res. passed 9-20-2005)
§ 32.04 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The village will reimburse employee and officer travel, meal
and lodging expenses incurred in connection with approved travel, meal and
lodging expenses incurred on behalf of the village. Employees and officers are
expected to exercise the same care in incurring expenses for official business
as a prudent person would in spending personal funds.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE REIMBURSEMENT. The maximum amount that may be
reimbursed for travel, meal and lodging expenses, which is set at $2,500 per
travel event.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village involving reimbursement to travelers or direct
payment to private agencies providing transportation or related services.
   (C)   Authorized types of official business. Travel, meal and lodging
expenses will be reimbursed for employees and officers of the village only for
purposes of official business conducted on behalf of the village. These include
but are not limited to off-site or out-of-town meetings related to official
business and approved seminars, conferences and other educational events
related to the employee’s or officer’s official duties. If you are unsure
whether an expense is reimbursable, please contact the Mayor.
   (D)   Categories of expenses.
      (1)   Airfare. Travelers are expected to obtain the lowest available
airfare that reasonably meets business travel needs. Travelers are encouraged
to book flights at least 30 days in advance to avoid premium airfare pricing.
Only coach or economy tickets will be paid or reimbursed. The traveler will pay
for the difference between higher priced tickets and coach or economy tickets
with his or her personal funds.
      (2)   Personal automobiles. Mileage reimbursement will be based on
mileage from the work location office to the off-site location of the official
business, not from the employee’s or officer’s residence. When attending a
training event or other off-site official business directly from an employee’s
or officer’s residence, no reimbursement will be made if the distance is less
than the mileage of a normal commute to the workplace. If the distance is
higher than the employee’s or officer’s normal commute, reimbursement will be
paid based on the differential of the commute less the mileage of a normal
commute to the workplace. An employee or officer will be reimbursed at the
prevailing IRS mileage rate. The traveler will only be reimbursed up to the
price of a coach airfare ticket if they drive to a location for which airfare
would have been less expensive.
      (3)   Automobile rentals. Travelers will be reimbursed for the cost of
renting an automobile including gasoline expense only as provided in this
section. Travelers using rental cars to conduct official business are required
to purchase insurance through the rental agency. Car rental insurance will
cover the vehicle during personal use, e.g., using the vehicle after the
conference has ended. Compact or mid- size cars are required for two or fewer
employees or officers traveling together and a full-size vehicle may be used
for three or more travelers. The traveler must refuel the vehicle before
returning it to the rental company.
      (4)   Public transportation. In the case of local training or official
business where an employee or officer chooses to use public transportation,
reimbursement for use of public transportation is based on mileage from the
agency office to the training site (not from the traveler’s residence),
regardless of the transportation method chosen. When attending training or
business directly from an employee’s or officer’s residence, no reimbursement
will be made if the distance is less than the mileage of a normal commute to
the workplace. If the distance is higher than the traveler’s normal commute,
reimbursement will paid at the differential of the commute less the mileage of
a normal commute to the workplace.
      (5)   Other transportation. The traveler should utilize hotel shuttle
service or other shuttle services, if available. If none are offered, the use
of the most economic transportation is encouraged.
      (6)   Hotel/motel accommodations. The traveler will be reimbursed for a
standard single-room at locations convenient to the business activity. In the
event of a change in plans or a cancellation, the traveler must cancel the
hotel/motel reservation so as not to incur cancellation charges. Cancellation
charges will not be reimbursed by the village unless approved by a vote of the
Board of Trustees of the village.
      (7)   Meals. Meal reimbursement is limited to the current U.S. General
Services Administration (GSA) regulations in place at the time the expense is
occurred. Prior approval by the Board of Trustees of the village and submission
of receipts are required for per diem allowances. Meals provided by the
conference or seminar should be deducted from the per diem allowance. Partial
reimbursement may be made for departure and return days based on time. Meals
during in-state travel that is not an overnight stay will be reimbursed for
actual cost not to exceed the GSA regulations.
      (8)   Vacation in conjunction with business travel. In cases where
vacation time is added to a business trip, any cost variance in airfare, car
rental, lodging and/or any other expenses must be clearly identified on the
Travel, Meal and Lodging Expense Report Form and paid by the traveler.
      (9)   Accompanied travel. When a traveler is accompanied by others not on
official business, any lodging, transportation, meals or other expenses above
those incurred for the authorized traveler will not be reimbursed by the
village.
      (10)   Parking. Parking fees at a hotel/motel, conference center or other
site will be reimbursed only with a receipt.
      (11)   Entertainment expenses. No employee or officer of the village
shall be reimbursed for any entertainment expense, unless ancillary to the
purpose of the program, event or other official business.
   (E)   Approval of expenses.
      (1)   Expenses for members of the Village Board of Trustees. All travel,
meal and lodging expenses incurred by any member of the Board of Trustees of
the village must be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the Board
of Trustees.
      (2)   Expenses for officials or employees other than members of the Board
of Trustees. Travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by any official or
employee not covered by division (E)(1) above (member of the Board of Trustees)
that is in excess of the maximum allowable reimbursement, as defined in
division (B) above, must be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of
the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Advanced expenses. Travel, meal and lodging expenses advanced as a
per diem to any employee or official of the village must be approved by roll
call vote at an open meeting of the Board of Trustees prior to payment.
Documentation of expenses must be provided in accordance with divisions (C),
(D) and (F) of this policy, and any excess from the per diem must be repaid.
      (4)   Other expenses. All other expenses that do not fall within
divisions (E)(1), (E)(2) o (E)(3) above are subject to the Mayor’s approval.
   (F)   Documentation of expenses. 
      (1)   Before an expense for travel, meals or lodging may be approved
under division (E) above, the following minimum documentation must first be
submitted, in writing, to the Mayor on a Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense
Form:
         (a)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals or lodging if expenses
have not yet been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals or
lodging if the expenses have already been incurred;
         (b)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal or lodging expense;
         (c)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal or lodging expense; and
         (d)   The date or dates and nature of the official business for which
the travel, meal or lodging expense was or will be expended.
      (2)   All documents and information submitted in connection with this
policy are public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act.
   (G)   Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Report Form. The village hereby
adopts as its official standardized form for the submission of travel, meal,
and lodging expenses the Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Report form attached
to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein.
Village of Wapella
Travel, Meal and Lodging Expense
Reimbursement Form
Name of Official or Employee:
___________________________________________________________
Title/Position of Official or Employees:
___________________________________________________
Name and Date of the Activity/Event:
_____________________________________________________
Check Number (if applicable):
____________________________________________________________
Credit Card Receipt Number (if applicable):
________________________________________________
Description of the purpose of the expense:
______________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________
Reimbursement Expense (estimated costs for pre-approval, or actual costs to be
reimbursed, with receipts, if applicable):
Mileage: ____________________________________________
Meals:
______________________________________________________________________________
Parking: ______________________________________________
Hotel/Lodging: ______________________________________________
Car rental: ______________________________________________
Airfare: ______________________________________________
Other Transportation (bus, train, taxi, car share, shuttle, etc.):
__________________________________
Total Reimbursement Expense for the Travel Event: ___________________________
Employee’s/Officer’s Signature: ______________________________________________
Date: _______________________________
Mayor’s Authorization: ______________________________________________
Date: _______________________________
ATTACH ALL RECEIPTS
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.05 MUNICIPAL SERVICES DENIED.
   (A)   No person will be entitled to any privilege, license, permit, right or
property zoning or subdivision entitlement or relief or the delivery of any
municipal services such as water service or sewer service until all fines, fees
and any other amounts of any kind then owed the village by such person are paid
in full and until such person is in complete compliance with any and all
provisions of the village code of ordinances, all other village rules,
regulations, ordinances and resolutions and all applicable state and federal
laws, rules, regulations and orders.
   (B)   The village shall provide notice to any person to be denied any
village privilege, license, permit, right or property zoning or subdivision
entitlement or relief, water service or sanitary sewer services prior to the
denial of said privileges, rights or services.
   (C)   Any person to be denied any privilege, license, permit, right or
property zoning or subdivision entitlement or relief, water service or sanitary
sewer service by the village shall, upon notice from the village, be entitled
to a hearing before the Board of Trustees in order to dispute the determination
by the village that such person has not paid in full any fine, fee or any other
amounts of any kind then owed the village by such person or is not otherwise in
complete compliance with any and all provisions of the village code of
ordinances, all other rules, regulations, ordinances and resolutions and all
applicable state and federal laws, rules, regulations and orders.
   (D)   Following a hearing before the Board of Trustees upon the request of
any person to be denied privileges or services under the terms of this section,
the Board of Trustees shall make a determination as to whether or not such
person is entitled to relief from the provisions of this section, the terms of
such relief and any other conditions affecting relief under this section.
   (E)   If the Board of Trustees determines that such person is not entitled
to relief from the provisions of this section, then the Board of Trustees shall
provide ten days notice to such person prior to terminating any services
provided to such person.
(Ord. 4-17-2018, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 32.06 DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN RECORDS.
   All requests for records filed with the village pursuant to the Illinois
Freedom of Information Act, and all responses to said requests, shall be
maintained by the Village Clerk for a period of two years, and may thereafter
be destroyed provided the village obtains approval for the destruction of such
records as required, pursuant to the Illinois Local Records Act.
(Ord. 2018-29-5, passed 5-29-2018)
§ 32.07 PLAN FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF WATER SYSTEM.
   The village approves a plan for operation and maintenance of its water
system relative to the following:
   (A)   The village has owned and operated a water treatment and distribution
system for many decades. Substantially, all village residents are connected to
the village water system.
   (B)   The village currently employs a licensed operator for the water
system. The village will continue to employ or contract with a person properly
licensed to operate the water system. The village will provide training
opportunities to the water operator in order for the operator to maintain
lawfully required certifications and licenses. Such training may be available
by the state or other governmental agencies or private entities. The village
will promptly engage a licensed water system operator should the current
operator be unable to perform operator duties.
   (C)   The job description of the water system operator is as follows:
      (1)   The water system operator reports directly to the Mayor and the
Board Committee assigned to supervise the water system; and
      (2)   The duties of the water system operator include, but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Supervise meter reading;
         (b)   Supervise water loss detection;
         (c)   Supervise installation of new services and connections of the
water system;
         (d)   Supervise operation of the water treatment plant and water
quality control;
         (e)   Supervise and recommend repairs and maintenance of the water
system; and
         (f)   Regularly report concerns to the Mayor, Board Committee and any
appropriate outside agency.
   (D)   The Village Board will oversee and authorize maintenance of the water
system based on recommendations of the water system operator and inspections
conducted by engineering firms engaged by the Board. Such major maintenance and
repairs may include:
      (1)   Tank painting, maintenance and repairs;
      (2)   System distribution repairs;
      (3)   Building painting and major repairs;
      (4)   Emergency distribution line repairs; and
      (5)   Other maintenance and repairs determined necessary by the Village
Board.
   (E)   The village currently maintains an accounting and billing system for
the water funds. The village will continue to maintain financial records for
the water system in accordance with generally acceptable accounting practices.
      (1)   A description of the village accounting system is available at
village hall or from the Village Treasurer.
      (2)   The Village Clerk, in cooperation with the Village Treasurer, is
responsible for all water system accounting and billing. Bills shall be
generated on a monthly basis pursuant to
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances and under the direction of the Mayor and
appropriate Board Supervising Committee.
      (3)   The Board shall approve agreements for an auditor to audit
municipal water funds. A copy is available at village hall.
      (4)   The Mayor will appoint the Village Treasurer (bookkeeper) subject
to concurrence by the Village Board.
      (5)   All village officers and employees handling village funds shall be
bonded.
      (6)   Pursuant to
Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances and notice provided on customer bills,
each water customer shall have a right to a hearing prior to disconnection of
water service to such customer.
(Ord. 6-19-2018A, passed 6-19-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Waterworks, see
Chapter 51
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 32.15 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be
made in writing to the Village Clerk in the absence of provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid, and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the city officials in the issuing of
the permit or license applied for.
(1975 Code, § 19-101)
§ 32.16 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation, shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or herself or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation, or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the city.
(1975 Code, § 19-102)
§ 32.17 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 19-103)
§ 32.18 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the President of
the Village Board and the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to the
contrary.
(1975 Code, § 19-104)
§ 32.19 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit where ordinances of
the village necessitate an investigation or inspection before the issuance of
such permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The Health Officer shall
make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to such licenses in connection
of the care and handling of goods and the prevention of nuisances and the
spread of disease, for the protection of health; and the building inspector
shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the
construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations except
where otherwise provided, by the President of the Village Board or by some
other officer designated.
(1975 Code, § 19-105)
§ 32.20 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application thereof is
made to the Village Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of part of the current license year the license fee
shall be pro-rated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction
thereof during which the business has been or will be conducted. Except as
otherwise provided, all license fees shall become a part of the corporate fund.
(1975 Code, § 19-106)
§ 32.21 TERMINATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of April, where no
provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the village a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an
annual, three weeks prior to the date of such expiration; provided, that a
failure to send out such notice, or the failure of the licensee to receive it
shall not excuse the licensee from a failure to obtain a new license, or a
renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a
license.
(1975 Code, § 19-107)
§ 32.22 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no
permit shall be issued for anything or act, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the village.
   (B)   No such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any
business or performance of any act which would involve a violation of the
zoning ordinance of the village.
(1975 Code, § 19-108)
§ 32.23 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted
act, may be changed, provided ten days notice thereof is given to the Village
Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided that the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of the ordinances are
complied with.
(1975 Code, § 19-109)
§ 32.24 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required as
a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consents must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition, such petition shall be filed with the
Village Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
falsely represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by ordinance.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning ordinance provision of the village; and
no such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure
or building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act
prohibited by any zoning ordinance of the village.
(1975 Code, § 19-110)
§ 32.25 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
(1975 Code, § 19-111)
§ 32.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any
ordinance provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of
the licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
village who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any ordinance provision or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality
whose business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer
or employee of the village requesting the same material or commodity for such
analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the President
of the Village Board shall revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any
licensed business in the village who refuses to permit any such officer or
employee who is authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make
the inspection, or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duty in making such inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for
such cause unless written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge
of the premises, in the name of the village, stating that such inspection or
sample is desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the
sample.
(1975 Code, § 19-112) Penalty see §
32.99
§ 32.27 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit for a limited time may be revoked by the President of
the Village Board at any time during the life of such license or permit for any
violation by the licensee or permittee of the ordinance provisions relating to
the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the
premises occupied, such revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed.
(1975 Code, § 19-113)
§ 32.28 POSTING LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times.
(1975 Code, § 19-114)
§ 32.29 VEHICLE TAG.
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis of a license fee, the
Village Clerk shall furnish such licensee with a tag or sticker which shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle while it is in use.
(1975 Code, § 19-115)
§ 32.30 RAFFLES AND POKER RUNS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct or participate in a raffle or poker run unless
the organization holding or sponsoring the event has obtained a license from
the village and is otherwise in compliance with all of the provisions of the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq., as amended from
time to time). As used herein, RAFFLE and POKER RUN shall have the same
definitions as provided in the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
   (B)   Licenses under this section for raffles or poker runs may be issued
only to bona fide, religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal,
educational or veterans organizations that operate without profit to their
members and which have been in existence continuously for a period of five
years immediately before making application for a license or to a non-profit
fundraising organization that is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardship as a result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster. The Mayor may waive the five-year requirement if the
organization is a local organizational that is affiliated with and chartered by
a national or state organizational that meets the five-year requirement. For
purposes of this section, the terms NON-PROFIT, CHARITABLE, EDUCATIONAL,
RELIGIOUS, FRATERNAL, VETERANS, LABOR and BUSINESS shall have the same
definition as provided in the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, as amended
from time to time.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to obtain a raffle or chances
or poker runs license shall submit an application providing the following
information and payment of a $25 fee for each license requested. A separate
license may be issued for each event or for a specific period of time not to
expire as of the last day of April each year.
      (1)   The application for license must specify the area or areas within
the village in which the raffle chances will be sold or issued or a poker run
will be conducted. The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued or a poker run will be conducted, the time of determination of winning
chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined.
      (2)   A license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not-for-profit character of the prospective licensee organization signed by
the presiding officer and the secretary of that organization.
   (D)   The following are ineligible for any license under this section:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good, moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsections
(1), (2) or (3) above has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest or in
which such a person is active or employed;
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections (1), (2)
or (3) above is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
or
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections (1), (2)
or (3) above is to participate in the management or operation of a raffles as
defined in this section.
   (E)   The conducting of raffles and poker runs is subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle or poker run must be
exclusively devoted to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to
conduct that game.
      (2)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (3)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle or poker run.
      (4)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this section. A premises where a poker run is held is not required to
obtain a license if the name and location of the premises is listed as a
predetermined location on the license issued for the poker run and the premises
does not charge for use of the premises.
      (5)   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license for a raffle.
      (6)   A person under the age of 18 years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances or poker runs only with the permission of a
parent or guardian. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the area
where winning chances in a raffle or winning hands or scores in a poker run are
being determined, only when accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   (F)   All operation of and the conduct of raffles and poker runs shall be
under the supervision of a single manager designated by the organization. The
manager shall give a fidelity bond in an amount determined by the Mayor in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his or her honesty in the
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bonds shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the licensing authority, not less than 30 days
prior to its cancellation. The Mayor may waive this bond requirement provided
that such waiver is consented to by a unanimous vote of the members of the
licensed organization.
   (G)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances or a poker
run event shall keep records in accordance with the requirements of the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, as amended from time to time (230 ILCS 15/
6). Each organization licensed to conduct raffles or poker runs shall report
promptly, after the conclusion of each raffle or poker run to its membership
and to the village, all of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from
raffles or poker runs and the distribution of net proceeds, itemized as
required by the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act. As used in this section,
NET PROCEEDS means the gross receipts from the conduct of raffles less
reasonable sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle or poker run.
Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years and the
organization shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles or poker runs for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2016-9-20, passed 9-20-2016) Penalty, see §
32.99  
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person conducting a raffle or poker run, in violation of §
32.30 of this chapter or in violation of provisions of the Illinois Raffles and
Poker Runs Act, shall upon conviction, be fined an amount up to $750 for each
violation. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense, punishable, by a fine up to $750 per day. The Mayor may, upon notice
and hearing to the licensee, revoke or suspend any license for any violation of
this section or the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act.
(1975 Code, § 19-116) (Ord. 2016-9-20, passed 9-20-2016)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Departments Generally
   
33.01   Distribution of powers
   
33.02   Powers and duties
   
33.03   President shall assign
   
33.04   Operation of a Department
   
33.05   Expenditure of funds
   
33.06   Adoption of State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
33.07   Ethics Officer
   
33.08   Reserved
   
33.09   Future amendments to State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Public Health and Safety
   
33.20   General powers; subordinates
   
33.21   Bond
   
33.22   Annual estimate
Department of Waterworks and Department of Drainage
   
33.35   Department of Waterworks
   
33.36   Department of Drainage
Zoning Commission
   
33.50   Recitals
   
33.51   Establishment; appointment
Cross-reference:
   Board of Trustees, see
Chapter 30
   Employees and officials, see
Chapter 31
   Tax and finance, see
Chapter 34
DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY
§ 33.01 DISTRIBUTION OF POWERS.
   The executive and administrative powers of the village shall be distributed
into six departments as follows:
   (A)   Department of Public Health and Public Safety;
   (B)   Department of Account and Finances;
   (C)   Department of Water;
   (D)   Department of Streets;
   (E)   Department of Zoning; and
   (F)   Department of Drainage.
(1975 Code, § 1-101)
§ 33.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall determine by ordinance the power and duties by each
department except as set forth in this code or by statute. The Board shall have
the power to assign any officer or employee to more than one department.
(1975 Code, § 1-102)
§ 33.03 PRESIDENT SHALL ASSIGN.
   The President shall assign the trustees to chair the various departments.
(1975 Code, § 1-103)
§ 33.04 OPERATION OF A DEPARTMENT.
   The chairperson of each department shall operate the department consistent
with the rules, regulations, ordinances, and this village code. The chairperson
of each department shall be the immediate supervisor of all employees of his or
her department. The chairperson shall also have the authority to discharge any
person for a violation of the personnel policy of the village; any violated any
law of the state; this village code; or any written regulations of the village.
The hiring of employees and the discharge of employees other than set forth
herein shall be done by the majority of the Board upon the recommendation of
the chairperson of the department. The chairperson of each department shall be
under the general supervision of the President as set forth in §§
31.080 through
31.085.
(1975 Code, § 1-104)
§ 33.05 EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   Each department head is permitted to spend on any one item up to $500 in the
routine operation of its department. This is intended to be a per project basis
and the department head shall not divide up a project into small chunks to
avoid the $500 rule. A department head may spend an additional $500 if the
purchase of an item or the hiring of a service exceeds the original $500 limit
only upon the written approval of the President. Each department head is
authorized in an emergency situation to expend up to $5,000 without Board
approval. In each emergency situation where the sum to be spent is likely to
exceed $1,000 the department head shall call a special meeting of the Board so
that input for a decision can be made by the Board at large. Whether in an
emergency or non-emergency situation Board members are required to make every
effort to obtain at least two different price quotes for any item they desire
to purchase which exceeds $500.
(1975 Code, § 1-105)
§ 33.06 ADOPTION OF STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430 et seq. is
hereby adopted as required by § 70-5 of the Act (5 ILCS 430/70-5).
   (B)   The solicitation or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed official or
any employee of the village.
(1975 Code, § 1-106) (Ord. 99-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-
21-2022)
§ 33.07 ETHICS OFFICER.
   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by § 70-5 of the
Act (5 ILCS 430/70- 5), the President is appointed to serve as the Ethics
Officer of the village. The Ethics Officer shall provide guidance to the
officers and employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and
compliance with the provisions of this section and state ethics laws. In the
case of a conflict of interest or other circumstances which prevent the
President from acting as Ethics Officer, the Village Attorney shall take his or
her place in providing guidance on matters implicating this section or state
ethics laws.
(1975 Code, § 1-107) (Ord. 99-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-
21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19-B, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 33.08 RESERVED.
§ 33.09 FUTURE AMENDMENTS TO STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   Any amendment to the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/1-
1, et seq.) that becomes effective after the passage of this section shall be
incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation and acceptance of gifts; however, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the village.
(1975 Code, § 1-109) (Ord. 99-, passed 6-15-1999; Ord. 2022-12-21E, passed 12-
21-2022)
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 33.20 GENERAL POWERS; SUBORDINATES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Health and Safety shall have control over and
supervision of the Board of Health, Chairperson of Health and their respective
offices and all property and apparatus used therein; the street corner waste
paper receptacles, billboards, the removal of garbage, scavengers and all
matters of sanitation; all city parks, and all other parks, playgrounds and
pleasure grounds within or belonging to the village, and all animals, birds,
reptiles, livestock, plants, trees and shrubbery contained therein, together
with all officers and employees, including custodians, matrons and park police
officers, employed in and about said parks and pleasure grounds or kept or used
in connection therewith.
   (B)   The Village Board shall have charge of and supervision over the
improvement, maintenance, lighting and care of said parks, pleasure grounds and
cemeteries, and of the buildings therein or thereon.
   (C)   The Village Board shall have charge of and supervision over all
village property not otherwise assigned by law or ordinance.
   (D)   All of these departments and subjects are hereby assigned to the
Department of Public Health and Safety.
   (E)   The Village Board shall have such assistance from the Village Engineer
as may be necessary in surveying and laying out improvements and receive
assistance from other officers and departments of the village.
   (F)   The Village Board shall have charge of all purchases of the department
or the offices or departments assigned thereto, and shall exercise supervision
over the construction and repair of buildings assigned to said department, and
may, on application, receive assistance therein from other officers and
departments of the village.
(1975 Code, § 5-101)
§ 33.21 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of his or her office, he or she shall
execute a bond payable to the village in the penal sum of $1,000, with sureties
to be approved by the Associate Judge of the Circuit Court of the county,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
The said bond shall be filed in the office of the County Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 5-102)
§ 33.22 ANNUAL ESTIMATE.
   The Chairperson of Public Health and Safety shall prepare and submit to the
Chairperson of Accounts and Finances, before May 1 of each year, an estimate of
the whole cost of maintaining his or her department, including all sub-
departments and activities under his or her control and supervision, during the
succeeding fiscal year, which estimate shall be in detail, and shall be laid by
the Chairperson of Accounts and Finances before the Village Board at the same
time that the annual estimate of the Chairperson of Accounts and Finances is
laid before the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 5-103)
DEPARTMENT OF WATERWORKS AND DEPARTMENT OF DRAINAGE
§ 33.35 DEPARTMENT OF WATER WORKS.
   (A)    The President shall appoint a Trustee to act as a Chairperson of the
Water Department for the village who shall have general control and supervision
of the potable water distribution system in the village.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall supervise the Department and its employees. All
expenditures for the Department shall be approved by ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 6-101) (Ord. 2019-10-1, passed 10-1-2019; Ord. 2021-03-16, passed
3-16-2021)
§ 33.36 DEPARTMENT OF DRAINAGE.
   The President shall appoint a Trustee to act as Chairperson of the
Department of Drainage who shall be responsible for all culverts, ditches,
tiling and flooding issues for the village. The Chairperson shall supervise the
Department and its employees. All expenditures for the Department shall be
approved by ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 6-102)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 33.50 RECITALS.
   The foregoing recitals are incorporated as substantive portions hereof as
though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2011-1115, passed 11-15-2011)
§ 33.51 ESTABLISHMENT; APPOINTMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority established by 65 ILCS 5/11-13-2, the Village
Board hereby establishes a Zoning Commission. The Village President shall have
the authority to appoint seven members to serve on the Zoning Commission,
subject to confirmation by the corporate authorities. The Zoning Commission
members shall serve until final recommendations on the zoning code amendments
have been finally acted upon by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2011-1115, passed 11-15-2011)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Investment policy
   
34.02   Utility tax revenue to General Fund
Municipal Utility Tax
   
34.15   Tax imposed
   
34.16   Exceptions
   
34.17   Additional taxes
   
34.18   Collection
   
34.19   Reports to municipality
   
34.20   Credit for over-payment
   
34.21   Definitions and collection
   
34.22   Books and records
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
34.25   Tax imposed
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   All financial assets of the village shall be held in an account or
certificates of deposit at a financial institution which is guaranteed by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and within the limits wherein accounts or
certificates of deposit are actually insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation.
   (B)   It is permissible under this policy that the accounts be brokered
through an individual agent as long as the accounts or certificates of deposit
are actually guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
(Ord. passed 12-21-1999)
§ 34.02 UTILITY TAX REVENUE TO GENERAL FUND.
   Res. 10-2 is hereby rescinded, and the Village Treasurer is hereby directed
to deposit all utility tax revenue received by the village pursuant to utility
taxes imposed by the village into the Village General Fund.
(Res. 10-15, passed 12-15-2015)
MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX
§ 34.15 TAX IMPOSED.
   The following taxes previously imposed by the village are hereby re-imposed
and continued within the village subject to the terms and conditions set forth
in this subchapter.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
municipality at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.5534 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.3629 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.3266 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.3175 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.3084 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.2903 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.2868 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.2812 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.2767 cents per kilowatt-hour; and
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: 0.2721 cents per kilowatt-hour.
   (B)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at a rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which
the business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers
Occupation Tax Act authorized by § 8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this
subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the municipality, whether privately
or municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
municipality; provided, however any and all accounts of a unit of local
government, including, but not limited to, the village, shall be exempt from
the taxes imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.17 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.18 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the purchaser
by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this subchapter and
any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall constitute a
debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity.
Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity
for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the municipality upon
request. If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
municipality in the manner prescribed by the municipality. Persons delivering
electricity who file returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of
filing such return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.19 REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before the last day of month, each taxpayer shall make a return
to the Village Treasurer for the preceding month, stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.20 CREDIT FOR OVER-PAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear than an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake
of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subchapter shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS AND COLLECTION.
   Unless a contrary definition or collection method is provided or evident,
the words and terms used in this subchapter shall have the meanings provided in
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2 and all taxes imposed hereunder shall be collected as provided
in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 34.22 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   The village may, in the manner authorized by law, audit and otherwise
examine the books and records of any taxpayer in order to determine compliance
with this subchapter and assume the collection of the tax imposed. It is the
duty of every taxpayer to keep accurate and complete books and records.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 34.25 TAX IMPOSED.
   Pursuant to the Simplified Municipal Communications Tax Act, 35 ILCS 636/5-
1, et seq. there is hereby imposed a municipal telecommunications tax on all
persons engaged in the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer;
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
(Ord. 2003-10, passed 9-16-2003)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
34.15 through
34.22 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $750. In addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to
the foregoing, if for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty of 10%
of the amount of tax due shall be added and collected plus interest at a rate
allowed by law for funds due to the village.
(Ord. 2015-12-15, passed 12-15-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATERWORKS
      
52.   SEPTIC TANKS
      
53.   CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Containers and receptacles
   
50.03   License mandatory to collect garbage
   
50.04   Conditions to be met for license application
   
50.05   Applications
   
50.06   Revocation of license
   
50.07   License fee
   
50.08   Beds on vehicles
   
50.09   Prevention of spilling, scattering or leakage
   
50.10   Universal garbage removal
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The waste product of combustion or any material, and the words “other
refuse” to mean sweepings, papers, tin cans, dirt or other accumulations not
giving off noxious odors.
   CUSTOMER. Any tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling, tenement house,
lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house or other person, persons, firm
or corporation who hires a hauler as defined herein for the purpose of
regularly collecting garbage.
   GARBAGE. Includes “kitchen and household garbage” and “ashes and other
refuse matter” as herein defined.
   HAULER. A person licensed under this chapter to haul kitchen and household
garbage, ashes, garbage or other refuse, as herein defined.
   KITCHEN AND HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Any, all and every accumulation of vegetable
matter, liquid or solid, that is received from kitchens and households, and
also, any and every decayed matter such as vegetables and fruits.
   VEHICLE. Automobile, truck or any vessel, vehicle, or wagon used to
transport garbage or refuse as herein defined.
(1975 Code, § 30-101)
§ 50.02 CONTAINERS AND RECEPTACLES
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or occupant of every
dwelling, tenement house, lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house or
other person, persons, firm or corporation, on whose premises kitchen and
household garbage collects, to provide, at all times to keep within such
building, or on the premises, garbage containers sufficient to hold all kitchen
and household garbage which may accumulate on the premises between collections,
such containers to be water-tight, and with a tight-fitting cover, and equipped
with suitable handles, which containers shall be placed at all times so as to
be readily accessible for removal and emptying, and where they shall not be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation, unless authorized and licensed for
that purpose, as hereinafter specified, shall interfere with such containers or
the contents thereof. All other refuse and ashes or cinders shall be placed in
a separate covered receptacle, said receptacle to be small enough that one
person can easily handle it. Said receptacles may not be located in any alley
or street, but must be readily accessible for collection and removal, but in
any event they shall not be placed in a situation that they would become a
public nuisance.
   (C)   All such garbage, ashes or cinders, and other refuse, shall be removed
once each week.
(1975 Code, § 30-102) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 LICENSE MANDATORY TO COLLECT GARBAGE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of collecting
garbage or be permitted to haul, convey or transport over and upon the streets
of the village any garbage or other refuse as defined, or other material giving
off noxious odors unless he or she shall be licensed therefor.
(1975 Code, § 30-103) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 CONDITIONS TO BE MET FOR LICENSE APPLICATION.
   No applicant shall be granted a license unless he or she shall have provided
himself or herself with the proper and necessary machinery or other appliances
for properly taking care of and disposing of said garbage in conformity with
the health regulations of the state, the county and this village, nor unless
such applicant owns each vehicle to be used in garbage collection, nor if the
applicant has been guilty of any willful violation of any health or sanitary
provisions of the village or is in default on any contract with the village.
(1975 Code, § 30-104) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications for license hereunder shall be made in writing to the
Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 30-105)
§ 50.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   If, during the period covered by the license granted, hauler shall permit
his or her equipment to fall into disrepair or shall fail to keep the same in a
sanitary condition when not in use, or shall fail to obey any of the provisions
of this chapter, the license shall be revoked after a hearing by the Village
Board.
(1975 Code, § 30-106)
§ 50.07 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be $100 for each vehicle used, provided that if more
than three months of the calendar year shall have expired at the time of the
application, the fee shall be pro-rated on the basis of quarters for the
balance of the calendar year. All licenses shall expire on December 31 in each
year. The license fee may be paid quarterly in advance on January 1, April 1,
July 1 and October 1 of each year. The license shall include a permit to
operate one truck. A licensee may obtain a permit or permits for $100 per
permit and each licensee must obtain a permit for each truck used in his or her
said business as a hauler of garbage within the village.
(1975 Code, § 30-107)
§ 50.08 BEDS ON VEHICLES.
   The beds of all vehicles used in garbage collection shall be tight enough so
that none of the garbage contained therein shall sift through, drop or spill
from said vehicles and covers shall be provided for the beds of all such
vehicles which shall be kept closed when in use.
(1975 Code, § 30-108) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 PREVENTION OF SPILLING, SCATTERING OR LEAKAGE.
   All ashes and non-noxious matter must be hauled in vehicles of such
construction as not to permit the sifting or spilling or scattering by the wind
or leakage of any matters hauled or transported.
(1975 Code, § 30-109) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 UNIVERSAL GARBAGE REMOVAL.
    The Board has instituted universal garbage removal for all residents of the
village, whereby the village will pay the cost of trash removal service and
bill each household in the village the then current charge per month for said
service. Every property or premises within the village, which is receiving
water services, will be charged the then current monthly trash removal fee, as
stated in the then current contract between the village and the waste hauler.
The trash removal fee will be billed as part of the water bill, and all
portions of
Chapter 51, the Waterworks Ordinance which apply to the enforcement and
collection of the water bill, shall also apply to the enforcement and
collection of the trash removal fee. Specifically, the village is hereby
authorized to shut off the water to a particular property if either the water
bill or the trash removal bill is not paid. In addition, all portions of §§
51.03,
51.04,
51.05,
51.06 and
51.07 shall be applicable to the enforcement and collection of trash removal
fees in the same way as water fees. All prior trash removal charges imposed by
the village are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(1975 Code, § 32-135) (Ord. 32-135, passed 4-15-1997; Ord. 2021-10-20, passed
10-20-2021; Ord. 2022- 12-21A, passed 12-21-2022) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.09 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
Each day upon which a violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate
offense. The provisions of this section shall in no way prevent revocation of
license as herein provided.
(1975 Code, § 30-110)
CHAPTER 51: WATERWORKS
Section
   
51.01   Rates; special charges
   
51.02   Rates outside village
   
51.03   Premises charged
   
51.04   Bills; when payable; delayed payment charge
   
51.05   Non-payment of bill
   
51.06   Liability for charges
   
51.07   Water service; application; turn-on fee; deposit
   
51.08   Notice of discontinue service
   
51.09   Service connections; charges
   
51.10   Construction
   
51.11   Installation
   
51.12   Repair
   
51.13   Excavations
   
51.14   Shut-off boxes
   
51.15   Meters required
   
51.16   Installation
   
51.17   Reading meters
   
51.18   Testing meters
   
51.19   Plumbing
   
51.20   Water, resale; unauthorized use
   
51.21   Tampering
   
51.22   Non-payment
   
51.23   Lien
   
51.24   Foreclosure of lien
   
51.25   New meters
   
51.26   Multiple-family units
   
51.27   Cross-connections and by-pass valves
   
51.28   Automatic water softeners, dishwashers and washing machines
   
51.29   Deposit of revenues
   
51.30   Service failures; non-liability
   
51.31   Access; use inspection
   
51.32   Service interruption
   
51.33   Double premises; water service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Plan for operation and maintenance of water system, see §
32.07
§ 51.01 RATES; SPECIAL CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The following rates and charges for the use and services of the
waterworks of the village to persons residing within the village are hereby
established, based on the amount of water received by each premises and
calculated on a monthly basis:
 
Residential Premises/Customers - Minimum Rate; Water Service
First 2,000 gallons $12.60
Over 2,000 gallons  $4.28 per 1,000 gallons
 
Commercial Premises/Customers - Minimum Rate; Water Service
First 2,000 gallons $27.90
Over 2,000 gallons  $10.32 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   As used herein, COMMERCIAL means any nonresidential use.
   (B)   (1)   Right to make special charges. The Village Board reserves the
right to make special charges for water service supplied to properties not
covered by the above rates or which, in the judgment of said Village Board
should be charged special rates. The rates established hereby shall go into
effect as of the effective date of this section.
      (2)   Surcharge established. There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvements surcharge which shall be assessed on all
users of the waterworks system.
      (3)   Rate of surcharge imposed. Each user of the waterworks system shall
be assessed the sum of $5 for each month of service provided by the waterworks
system. Said charge shall be in addition to any and all other charges imposed
for waters service.
      (4)   User defined. For the purpose of this section, USER shall be
defined as any residence, each unit of a multi-unit commercial or residential
building, and each user within another entity using the village water treatment
or distribution system.
      (5)   Effective date or surcharge. The capital improvements surcharge
shall be effective, and shall be included, for all bills rendered on or after
August 20, 2015.
      (6)   Itemization of surcharge. The capital improvements surcharge shall
be included on all bills for waterworks service rendered by the village and
shall be separately itemized on such billing.
      (7)   Creation of account. In addition to any and all accounts maintained
by the Village Treasurer for the waterworks system, there is hereby established
a capital improvements surcharge account (the “account”) on the books and
records of the village. All proceeds of the capital improvements surcharge
collected by the Village Treasurer shall be credited to said account
      (8)   Partial payment of bills. In the event that a bill including the
capital improvements surcharge is paid in part by a user, the Village Treasurer
shall first credit the funds received to the account then credit the remainder
to the waterworks system.
      (9)   Use of surcharge funds. Funds credited to the account shall be used
only for the construction, improvements, extension and rehabilitation of the
waterworks system. In connection therewith, the village may pay with funds
credited to the account the principal of and interest on any bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness the proceeds of which are to be sued for any or all of
such purposes. The Board of Trustees may authorize the use of funds credited to
the account for engineering, legal and planning services necessary to determine
the design, cost or need of construction, improvements, extension and
rehabilitation of the waterworks system. The Board of Trustees may authorize
the use of funds credited to the account for payment of the cost of repairs to
the waterworks system when it determines that such repairs are necessary to
maintain the proper functioning of the waterworks system or any component
thereof.
   (C)    The rates and charges established hereby shall apply to bills issued
after October 30, 2018.
   (D)   (1)   Beginning January 1, 2023 and the first day of January
thereafter, the rates established for water purchased from the Wapella
waterworks system shall be increased by 6% over the then existing rates, unless
the Board of Trustees, on or before January 1st, by duly enacted ordinance,
suspends, modifies or rescinds such annual automatic increase.
      (2)   The City Clerk/Collector is hereby authorized to implement the new
charges for water purchased from the Wapella waterworks system and empowered
and directed to effectuate such rate increases when and as they become due.
      (3)   The Village Clerk be and he or she is hereby authorized to adjust
the rates for water service, provided in division (A) of this section annually,
as of January 1st of each year, based on the increase authorized, pursuant to
this division (D).
(1975 Code, § 32-101) (Ord. 2015-08-18, passed 8-18-2015; Ord. 2018-08-18,
passed 10-30-2018; Ord. 2018-10-30, passed 10-30-2018; Ord. 2022-11-16B, passed
11-16-2022; Ord. 2022-12-21A, passed 12-21- 2022)
§ 51.02 RATES OUTSIDE VILLAGE.
   All patrons and customers of the waterworks receiving water through meters
located outside of said village, or persons residing outside the village limits
shall pay one and one-half times rate inside village. Said patrons shall be
subject to the same rules and regulations herein provided, with reference to
said service, unless otherwise herein expressly provided.
(1975 Code, § 32-102)
§ 51.03 PREMISES CHARGED.
   Charges for service shall be made and collected against each lot, parcel of
land or premises to which water is supplied by the village waterworks system.
(1975 Code, § 32-103)
§ 51.04 BILLS; WHEN PAYABLE; DELAYED PAYMENT CHARGE.
    Bills for the rates and charges herein established shall be made out by the
month and shall be sent out monthly. The bills shall be due and payable on the
first day of the month following the reading of the water meters. All bills
shall be payable where designated by the Board from time to time. If any
charges for the services of the system shall be not paid by the 20th of the
month following the reading of the water meters, a delayed payment change of
10% of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith.
(1975 Code, § 32-104) (Ord. 2022-12-21A, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 51.05 NON-PAYMENT OF BILL.
   After notice and an opportunity for a hearing, if any bill for waterworks
services shall remain unpaid after 60 days following the rendition of the bill
therefore, the water supply for the lot parcel of land or premises effected may
be terminated and shall not be turned on again except on payment in full of the
water bill, any delinquent charges therefor and an additional payment of $25.
(1975 Code, § 32-105) (Ord. 2016-2-16, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 51.06 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of any lot, parcel of land or premises using or receiving any of
the services of the water system of the village, the occupant of such premises
and the user of the services shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of charges for such use and services to such lot, parcel of land or
premise, and all services are rendered to the premises by the said village only
on the condition that such owner, occupant and user shall be jointly and
severally liable therefor to such village.
(1975 Code, § 32-106)
§ 51.07 WATER SERVICE; APPLICATION; TURN-ON FEE; DEPOSIT.
   No water from the waterworks system of the village shall be turned on for
service (or transferred to a new customer) into any premises by any person but
the Superintendent of the waterworks system or some person authorized by him or
her to perform this service. Application to have water turned on (or
transferred to a new customer) shall be made in writing to the Superintendent
of the system, and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all of the provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use
and service of the waterworks system of the village by the applicant and such
additional information required by the Superintendent of the system, including
but not limited to, name, address, phone number, email address and former
addresses. A fee of $20 shall be paid for turning on water (or transferring an
existing water service to a new customer). A deposit of $50 shall be made with
each application, this sum to be retained by the village to ensure payment of
all bills. When service to the applicant is discontinued permanently, this
deposit less any amount still due the village for water service, shall be
refunded without interest; provided, that where any applicant for water service
is the owner of record and occupant of the premises to be served no such
deposit shall be required.
(1975 Code, § 32-107) (Ord. 2018-30-1, passed 1-30-2018; Ord. 6-19-2018B,
passed 6-19-2018)
§ 51.08 NOTICE OF DISCONTINUE SERVICE.
   Water shall be deemed to have been supplied by the waterworks system during
any month unless the water user shall have given written notice to the Water
Department prior to the first day of the month that service should be
discontinued on or prior to the first day of such month. Upon the receipt of
such notice, water service shall be discontinued in accordance therewith, and
shall not be resumed until a request for the resumption of water shall be made.
(1975 Code, § 32-108)
§ 51.09 SERVICE CONNECTIONS; CHARGES.
   All meter service connections shall be made by the village personnel under
the supervision of such Commissioner, and no connections shall be covered until
the work has been inspected to the satisfaction of such Commissioner. Whenever
any premises shall hereafter be connected with the waterworks system, all
expenses of such connection shall be paid by owner.
(1975 Code, § 32-109)
§ 51.10 CONSTRUCTION.
   All water services used or laid on village property or in village streets
shall be of K copper construction. At no time will plastic or galvanized pipe
be used, regardless of who is laying said pipe.
(1975 Code, § 32-110)
§ 51.11 INSTALLATION.
   All service pipes and laterals from the waterworks system of the village to
the premises served shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the
property to be served or the applicant for the service. All such water services
shall have curb cock on terrace with a stop box flush with ground.
(1975 Code, § 32-111)
§ 51.12 REPAIR.
   All repairs for service pipes and laterals and plumbing systems of buildings
shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises served. The
village may, in case of an emergency, repair any service pipes and laterals and
if this is done the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the village by
the owner of the premises served.
(1975 Code, § 32-112)
§ 51.13 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes and laterals or repairing the same
shall be made in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to making
excavations in streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place any
service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or
sewer lateral.
(1975 Code, § 32-113)
§ 51.14 SHUT-OFF BOXES.
   (A)   Shut-off boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practicable.
   (B)   Such boxes shall be so located that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from frost.
(1975 Code, § 32-114)
§ 51.15 METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All premises using the village water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter furnished by the owner; provided, that such water service
may be supplied by the village at a flat rate of charge until such meter may be
installed.
   (B)   Before any premises are occupied, a water meter shall be installed
therein as herein required or application made for such water service at the
flat rate of charge until the meter can be installed or no water shall be
furnished such premises.
(1975 Code, § 32-115)
§ 51.16 INSTALLATION.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy of access.
(1975 Code, § 32-116)
§ 51.17 READING METERS.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall read or cause to be read every
water meter used in the village at such times as are necessary that the bills
may be sent out at the proper time.
(1975 Code, § 32-117)
§ 51.18 TESTING METERS.
   (A)   Any water meter shall be taken out and tested upon complaint of the
consumer, upon payment of a fee of $10.
   (B)   If upon test, the meter is not within 3% of being accurate, it shall
be repaired or replaced.
(1975 Code, § 32-118)
§ 51.19 PLUMBING.
   No water shall be turned on for service in any premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the village, provided that
water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 32-119)
§ 51.20 WATER, RESALE; UNAUTHORIZED USE.
   No water supplied by the waterworks system of the village shall be resold by
any user. No water user may supply water to other families or allow them to
take it, (except for use on the premises and for the purpose specified in such
user’s approved application) nor after water is introduced into any building or
upon any premises shall any person make or employ any other person to make any
tap, or connection with work upon the premises for alterations, repairs,
extensions or attachments without written permit therefor. Resale or
unauthorized use of water shall be grounds for discontinuance of water service
to the user, or the premises, or both.
(1975 Code, § 32-120)
§ 51.21 TAMPERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Village Board to
tamper with, alter or injure any part of the village waterworks or supply
system, or any meter.
(1975 Code, § 32-121) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 NON-PAYMENT.
   After notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the water supply may be shut
off from any premises for which the water bill remains unpaid for a period of
60 days after the bill is rendered. When shut off, water shall not be turned on
except upon payment in full of the water bill, any delinquent charges and an
additional payment of $25.
(1975 Code, § 32-122) (Ord. 2016-2-16, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 51.23 LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for water shall be lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid 30 days after it has
been rendered, the Clerk may file with the Recorder of the county, a statement
of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the
premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for water served
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the
premises, and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises, if his or her address is known to the Clerk, whenever
such bills remain unpaid for a period of 30 days after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien claims or to mail such
notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in the
following section.
(1975 Code, § 32-123)
§ 51.24 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid water charges shall be sold for
non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale be applied to pay the
charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory
liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in the name of the village.
   (B)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matters, against any property for which water bill has remained
unpaid 30 days after it has been rendered.
(1975 Code, § 32-124)
§ 51.25 NEW METERS.
   Any house or building constructed within the village or constructed outside
of the village and using village water, must have installed a meter that will
service each individual user located upon any newly constructed property.
(1975 Code, § 32-125)
§ 51.26 MULTIPLE-FAMILY UNITS.
   In multiple-family units, there shall be one meter per family.
(1975 Code, § 32-126)
§ 51.27 CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BY-PASS VALVES.
   No cross-connections or by-pass valves will be permitted to connect to any
water line that flows to or from the water system owned and operated by the
village. This shall include all well and cistern pressure systems that have
cross over valves to the village system. If pressure systems are to be used,
there must be a broken union at all times between cross-over valves.
(1975 Code, § 32-127)
§ 51.28 AUTOMATIC WATER SOFTENERS, DISHWASHERS AND WASHING MACHINES.
   All automatic water softeners, dishwashers and washing machines must be
connected to a drain with open discharge and properly trapped and vented.
(1975 Code, § 32-128)
§ 51.29 DEPOSIT OF REVENUES.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the waterworks
system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in a separate
fund and in a separate bank account designated as the “Waterworks Fund” of the
village, established by the water ordinance. Said village, which authorized the
above mentioned revenue bonds, and said Village Treasurer shall administer such
fund in every respect in the manner provided by said ordinance and by law.
(1975 Code, § 32-129)
§ 51.30 SERVICE FAILURES; NON-LIABILITY.
   All waterworks service supplied by the system shall be upon the express
condition that the village shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made
against it for damages or injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main,
branches, service pipes, apparatus or appurtenances connected with said system
or any part of portion thereof, or for any interruption of the supply by reason
of the breakage of machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions
or renewals.
(1975 Code, § 32-130)
§ 51.31 ACCESS; USE INSPECTION.
   The village and its employees shall have ready access at all reasonable
times to the premises, places or buildings where water service is supplied for
the purpose of inspecting, examining and testing the consumption, use and flow
of water or the operation of the system, and it shall be unlawful for any
person or corporation to interfere with, prevent or obstruct said village or
its duly authorized agent, in its duties hereunder. Every user of the system
shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in this section.
(1975 Code, § 32-131)
§ 51.32 SERVICE INTERRUPTION.
   The village reserves the right to shut off water at any time in the mains
for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections with or extensions
to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of the village in case
of fire, and for restricting the use of water in case of deficiency in supply,
including the suspension of the use of water for sprinkling lawns or gardens.
No claim shall be made against the village by reason of the breaking of any
service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from shutting off of water for
repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections, or
repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of the water supply, or
by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from concentrated or
restricted use of water as above.
(1975 Code, § 32-132)
§ 51.33 DOUBLE PREMISES; WATER SERVICE.
   No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any two
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk opposite the
same, nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining
premises. Duplex flats, double houses and apartment houses shall be considered
as one “premises”. A “premises” shall be construed to cover all buildings and
divisions under one common roof, owned by one party who will be charged for all
services to such premises.
(1975 Code, § 32-133)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 32-134)
CHAPTER 52: SEPTIC TANKS
Section
   
52.01   Sewage disposal facilities required
   
52.02   Septic tanks; capacity
   
52.03   Location; construction of tank
   
52.04   Feeder sewer laterals; construction of
   
52.05   Backfill
   
52.06   Inspections
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every building or structure in the village used for residence,
business, trade, industry or meeting purposes, where sewer service is
available, shall be equipped with properly constructed and installed adequate
sewage disposal facilities.
   (B)   The plumbing in all such places shall conform to the ordinances of the
village and laws of the state relative thereto.
(1975 Code, § 18-101) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 SEPTIC TANKS; CAPACITY.
   Any such premises not connected with a sanitary sewer system shall be
equipped with an adequate septic tank having a capacity of not less than 500
gallons for each seven persons living or working in such place; and an
additional 75 gallons for each person in excess of seven; provided, that the
tank in any premises used for meeting purposes shall have a capacity of not
less than 1,500 gallons.
(1975 Code, § 18-102) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 LOCATION; CONSTRUCTION OF TANK.
    Each such tank shall be located at least five feet from any building, and
shall be constructed of concrete, or other state approved materials. Baffle
shall be located from six inches to nine inches away from the inlet and outlet
and must extend 12 inches beneath the sewer level in the tank. Each tank must
be equipped with a manhole or similar suitably covered opening to permit
inspection or cleaning.
(1975 Code, § 18-103) (Ord. 2022-7-20, passed 7-20-2022)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 FEEDER SEWER LATERALS; CONSTRUCTION OF.
   The feeder sewer from the tank to the laterals of the disposal field shall
be constructed of vitrified bell-and-spigot tile with cemented joints and shall
be laid with a grade of one foot per 100 feet; disposal field tile shall be
located at least 75 feet distant from any well and ten feet from the tank, and
30 feet from any building used for human habitation. No lateral shall be closer
than 12 feet from the lot line. There shall be at least 200 feet of disposal
field tile, consisting of four-inch drain tile laid with open joints. Disposal
tiles shall be laid to a depth of not more than two feet on a slope not to
exceed six inches per 100 feet.
(1975 Code, § 18-104) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 BACKFILL.
   Backfill in the trench under the tile shall be six inches of coarse gravel
or crushed stone. Earth backfill shall be well tamped.
(1975 Code, § 18-105) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 INSPECTIONS.
   No septic tank or any pipes leading to or from the same shall be covered
unless and until such tank and pipes have been inspected and found to be in
compliance with the ordinance provisions of the village and with the state laws
pertaining thereto.
(1975 Code, § 18-106) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, or using or occupying
any premises in the village as habitations or for business, trade, industry or
meeting purposes unless such premises are equipped with sewage disposal
facilities consisting of either a connection with a sanitary sewer system or
proper septic tank, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each
offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 18-107)
CHAPTER 53: CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
53.01   Purpose and scope
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Annual registration required
   
53.04   Permit required; applications and fees
   
53.05   Action on permit applications
   
53.06   Effect of permit
   
53.07   Revised permit drawings
   
53.08   Insurance
   
53.09   Indemnification
   
53.10   Security
   
53.11   Permit suspension and revocation
   
53.12   Change of ownership or owner’s identity or legal status
   
53.13   General construction standards
   
53.14   Traffic control
   
53.15   Location of facilities
   
53.16   Construction methods and materials
   
53.17   Vegetation control
   
53.18   Removal, relocation, or modification of utility facilities
   
53.19   Clean-up and restoration
   
53.20   Maintenance and emergency maintenance
   
53.21   Variances
   
53.22   Enforcement
 
   
53.99   Penalties
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights-of-way and the village as a whole.
   (B)   Intent. In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including without limitation:
      (1)   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      (2)   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
      (4)   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      (5)   Protect against increased stormwater run-off due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      (6)   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      (7)   Preserve open space, particularly the tree-lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      (8)   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
      (9)   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   (C)   Facilities subject to this chapter. This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
   (D)   Franchises, licenses, or similar agreements. The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights-of-way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of franchises, licenses, or similar agreements.
      (1)   Utilities other than telecommunications providers. In the event
that a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise,
license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      (2)   Telecommunications providers. In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   (F)   Conflicts with other chapters. This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   (G)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   (H)   Sound engineering judgment. The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights-of-way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
the words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Ill. Adm. Code § 530.30, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   APPLICANT. A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   BACKFILL. The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a
trench or pit.
   BORE or BORING. To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the
insertion of a pipe or electrical conductor.
   CABLE OPERATOR. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5).
   CABLE SERVICE. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6).
   CABLE SYSTEM. That term as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7).
   CARRIER PIPE. The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be
transported.
   CASING. A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
   CLEAR ZONE. The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a non-recoverable slope, and a clear run-out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO Roadside Design
Guide.
   COATING. Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
   CODE. The Municipal Code of the Village of Wapella.
   CONDUCTOR. Wire carrying electrical current.
   CONDUIT. A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
   CONSTRUCTION or CONSTRUCT. The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
   COVER. The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
   CROSSING FACILITY. A facility that crosses one or more right-of-way lines of
a right-of-way.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Village Director of Public Works or his or her
designee, or committee chair in charge of streets and public ways.
   DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY. For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right-of-way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right-of-way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
   EMERGENCY. Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety
of the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
   ENCASEMENT. Provision of a protective casing.
   ENGINEER. The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
   EQUIPMENT. Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used
to facilitate construction of facilities.
   EXCAVATION. The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying
bare by digging.
   EXTRA HEAVY PIPE. Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
   FACILITY. All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but
not limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas,
vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits,
grates, covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over,
above, along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way under this chapter.
For purposes of this chapter, the term FACILITY shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
   FREESTANDING FACILITY. A facility that is not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
   FRONTAGE ROAD. Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent
to the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
   HIGHWAY CODE. The Illinois Highway Code, 605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   HIGHWAY. A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic
including rural or urban roads or streets. HIGHWAY includes all highway land
and improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges,
drainage structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
   HOLDER. A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or
provide cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois Cable and
Video Competition Law, 220 ILCS 5/21-401.
   IDOT. Illinois Department of Transportation.
   ICC. Illinois Commerce Commission.
   JACKING. Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means
with or without boring.
   JETTING. Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to
create a cavity ahead of the pipe.
   JOINT USE. The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two or
more utilities.
   J.U.L.I.E. The Joint Utility Locating Information for Excavators utility
notification program.
   MAJOR INTERSECTION. The intersection of two or more major arterial highways.
   OCCUPANCY. The presence of facilities on, over or under right-of-way.
   PARALLEL FACILITY. A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to
the centerline of a right-of-way.
   PARKWAY. Any portion of the right-of-way not improved by street or sidewalk.
   PAVEMENT CUT. The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or
for the construction of a facility.
   PERMITTEE. That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   PRACTICABLE. That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than
that which is simply convenient.
   PRESSURE. The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
   PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES. Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal-slurry.
   PROMPT. That which is done within a period of time specified by the village.
If no time period is specified, the period shall be 30 days.
   PUBLIC ENTITY. A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
   RESTORATION. The repair of a right-of-way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY shall not include any
real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right-of-way.
   ROADWAY. That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SECURITY FUND. That amount of security required pursuant to this chapter.
   SHOULDER. A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
   SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT. A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-
to-end communications. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications
Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. Sections 521 and following), as now or hereafter
amended, or cable or other programming services subject to an open video system
fee payable to the village through an open video system as defined in the Rules
of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and following),
as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER. Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right-of-way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER. Every person engaged in making sales of
telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
   TRENCH. A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
   UTILITY. The individual or entity owning or operating any facility as
defined in this chapter.
   VENT. A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
   VIDEO SERVICE. That term as defined in section 21-201 (v) of the Illinois
Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007, 220 ILCS 5/21-201(v).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Wapella.
   WATER LINES. Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
   WET BORING. Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.03 ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Every utility that occupies right-of-way within the village shall register
on January 1 of each year with the Director of Public Works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-
way and a 24-hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of
insurance as required in this chapter, in the form of a certificate of
insurance.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct (as defined in this
chapter) any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within
any village right-of-way which (1) changes the location of the facility, (2)
adds a new facility, (3) disrupts the right-of-way (as defined in this
chapter), or (4) materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by
the facility on, over, above, along, under, across or within the right-of-way,
without first filing an application with the Village Engineer or Director of
Public Works and obtaining a permit from the village therefor, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers' premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   (B)   Permit application. All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   (C)   Minimum general application requirements. The application shall be
made by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at
a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      (2)   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility,
its telephone, telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      (3)   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      (4)   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      (5)   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         (a)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the Illinois Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         (b)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in §
53.08;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in §
53.10;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see §
53.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service, or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District [other local or state entities with jurisdiction], have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed. Section unless the village finds that
additional information or assurances are needed;
      (6)   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      (7)   Evidence of insurance as required in § 53.08;
      (8)   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in § 53.10;
      (9)   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see § 53.21); and
      (10)   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   (D)   Supplemental application requirements for specific types of utilities.
In addition to the requirements of division (C) of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      (1)   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      (2)   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      (3)   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
      (4)   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
Division of Water Pollution Control and the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District [other local or state entities with jurisdiction], have been
satisfied; or
      (5)   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
   (E)   Applicant's duty to update information. Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within 30 days after the
change necessitating the amendment.
   (F)   Application fees. Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of $50. No application fee is required to
be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the municipal electricity
infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the Electricity Infrastructure
Maintenance Fee Act.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Village review of permit applications. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer or Director of Public Works within a reasonable time after filing. If
the application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer or Director of Public
Works shall reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor.
If the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer or
Director of Public Works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable.
In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Additional village review of applications of telecommunications
retailers.
      (1)   Pursuant to Section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 ILCS 65/4,
a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village that it intends to
commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for the provision of
telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of plans,
specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the purpose
and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the telecommunications
retailer to the village not less than ten days prior to the commencement of
work requiring no excavation and not less than 30 days prior to the
commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village Engineer or Director of
Public Works shall specify the portion of the right-of-way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      (2)   In the event that the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works
fails to provide such specification of location to the telecommunications
retailer within either (i) ten days after service of notice to the village by
the telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation
for new construction or (ii) 25 days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      (3)   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to §
53.04 the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the village an
application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Additional village review of applications of holders of state
authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007. Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state-issued authorization under the Cable
and Video Competition Law of 2007 shall be deemed granted 45 days after
submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village, provided
the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.06 EFFECT OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Authority granted; no property right or other interest created. A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights-of-way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Duration. No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   (C)   Pre-construction meeting required. No construction shall begin
pursuant to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the
permittee and all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any
work under the permit at a pre-construction meeting. The pre-construction
meeting shall be held at a date, time and place designated by the village with
such village representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The
meeting shall be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit and
reviewing special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur,
including, without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities
in the area and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other
utilities, use of rights-of-way by the public during construction, and access
and egress by adjacent property owners.
   (D)   Compliance with all laws required. The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS.
   In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the cillage within 90 days after
the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with §
53.21. If the village denies the request for a variance, then the permittee
shall either remove the facility from the right-of-way or modify the facility
so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Required coverages and limits. Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right-of-way or
constructing any facility in the right-of-way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section:
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X," "C," and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         (a)   Five million dollars for bodily injury or death to each person;
         (b)   Five million dollars for property damage resulting from any one
accident; and
         (c)   Five million dollars for all other types of liability;
      (2)   Automobile liability for owned, non-owned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of $1,000,000 for personal injury and property damage for
each accident;
      (3)   Worker's compensation with statutory limits; and
      (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per employee and per accident.
      (5)   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this section.
   (B)   Excess or umbrella policies. The coverages required by this section
may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess
or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following-form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   (C)   Copies required. The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
   (D)   Maintenance and renewal of required coverages. The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
      "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled
nor the intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt
by the Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested,
of a written notice addressed to the Village Mayor of such intent to cancel or
not to renew."
Within ten days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no event
later than ten days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain and
furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   (E)   Self-insurance. A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by division (A) of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under division (A) of this section, or the requirements of divisions
(B), (C) and (D) of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall
provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability
to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
division (A) of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the Worker’s Compensation Act.
   (F)   Effect of insurance and self-insurance on utility's liability. The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   (G)   Insurance companies. All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the State of Illinois.
[All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.]
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 INDEMNIFICATION.
   By occupying or constructing facilities in the right-of-way, a utility shall
be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected
and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights-of-way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.10 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. The permittee shall establish a Security Fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this section. The Security Fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole
cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit.
The Security Fund shall serve as security for:
      (1)   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
      (2)   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter;
      (3)   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   (B)   Form. The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this division shall, at a minimum:
      (1)   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      (2)   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it;
      (3)   Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
State of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   (C)   Amount. The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works, and
may also include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates
are likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration.
Where the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be
performed in phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase
consisting of construction of facilities in one location or a related group of
locations, and where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior
to substantial completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the
Village Engineer or Director of Public Works may, in the exercise of sound
discretion, allow the permittee to post a single amount of security which shall
be applicable to each phase of the construction under the permit. The amount of
the Security Fund for phased construction shall be equal to the greatest amount
that would have been required under the provisions of this division (C) for any
single phase.
   (D)   Withdrawals. The village, upon 14 days' advance written notice clearly
stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights under
this division, may withdraw an amount from the Security Fund, provided that the
permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount within the 14 day
notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      (1)   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      (2)   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      (3)   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or non-performance by the permittee; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the Security Fund.
   (E)   Replenishment. Within 14 days after receipt of written notice from the
village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security Fund, the
permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in division
(C) of this section.
   (F)   Interest. The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum balance required
in division (C) of this section.
   (G)   Closing and return of Security Fund. Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   (H)   Rights not limited. The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.11 PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Village right to revoke permit. The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      (2)   Non-compliance with this chapter;
      (3)   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      (4)   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   (B)   Notice of revocation or suspension. The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   (C)   Permittee alternatives upon receipt of notice of revocation or
suspension. 
      (1)   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
         (a)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
         (b)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five working days after receipt of the written
notice of revocation; or
         (c)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way and restore the rights-
of-way to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
      (2)   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this division.
   (D)   Stop work order. In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within division (A) of
this section.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the permittee to comply. If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of division (C) of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: (1) correct the deficiencies;
(2) upon not less than 20 days notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or (3) after not less than 30 days notice to the
permittee of failure to cure the non-compliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the
village for all costs of removal.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.12 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS.
   (A)   Notification of change. A utility shall notify the village no less
than 30 days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the right-
of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility or
the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   (B)   Amended permit. A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right-
of-way.
   (C)   Insurance and bonding. All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards and principles. All construction in the right-of-way shall
be consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations,
and commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction
principles, sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles
and standards set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from
time to time:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction;
      (2)   Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions;
      (3)   Highway Design Manual;
      (4)   Highway Standards Manual;
      (5)   Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items;
      (6)   Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (92 Ill. Adm.
Code § 545);
      (7)   Flagger's Handbook; and
      (8)   Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations.
   (B)   Interpretation of municipal standards and principles. If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works shall determine, in
the exercise of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such
decision shall be final. If requested, the Village Engineer or Director of
Public Works shall state which standard or principle will apply to the
construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the future.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.14 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's Illinois Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices and this Code.
   (B)   Warning signs, protective devices, and flaggers. The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   (C)   Interference with traffic. All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Notice when access is blocked. At least 48 hours prior to beginning
work that will partially or completely block access to any residence, business
or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or institution
of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work; provided, however,
that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to §
53.20, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable under the
circumstances.
   (E)   Compliance. The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this division.
      (1)   No interference with village facilities. No utility facilities
shall be placed in any location if the Village Engineer or Director of Public
Works determines that the proposed location will require the relocation or
displacement of any of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility
facilities.
      (2)   Minimum interference and impact. The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      (3)   No interference with travel. No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right-of-way.
      (4)   No limitations on visibility. No utility facility shall be placed
in any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Size of utility facilities. The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   (B)   Parallel facilities located within highways.
      (1)   Overhead parallel facilities. An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right-of-way
line and as nearly parallel to the right-of-way line as reasonable pole
alignment will permit;
         (b)   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable
from the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         (c)   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         (d)   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         (e)   Any ground-mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (0.3
m) of the right-of-way line or as near as possible to the right-of-way line.
      (2)   Underground parallel facilities. An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right-of-way lines of a highway only if:
         (a)   The facility is located as near the right-of-way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way line;
         (b)   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         (c)   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right-of-way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (1.5 m) from the right-of-way line and any above-grounded
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line
or as near as practicable.
   (C)   Facilities crossing highways.
      (1)   No future disruption. The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      (2)   Cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities. Crossing
facilities shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage
facilities.
      (3)   Ninety degree crossing required. Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a 90 degree angle to the centerline as practicable.
      (4)   Overhead power or communication facility. An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" (83
Ill. Adm. Code 305);
         (b)   Poles are located within one foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way
line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         (c)   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      (5)   Underground power or communication facility. An underground power
or communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         (a)   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance-free service life; and
         (b)   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      (6)   Markers. The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations. (49 C.F.R. § 192.707
(1989)).
   (D)   Facilities to be located within particular rights-of-way. The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights-of-way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   (E)   Freestanding facilities.
      (1)   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right-of-way.
      (2)   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view.
   (F)   Facilities installed above ground. Above ground facilities may be
installed only if:
      (1)   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      (2)   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      (3)   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single-pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   (G)   Facility attachments to bridges or roadway structures.
      (1)   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      (2)   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         (a)   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         (b)   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         (c)   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         (d)   The proposed method of attachment;
         (e)   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         (f)   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         (g)   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         (h)   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   (H)   Appearance standards.
      (1)   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      (2)   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.16 CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS.
   (A)   Standards and requirements for particular types of construction
methods.
      (1)   Boring or jacking.
         (a)   Pits and shoring. Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer or Director of Public Works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for
boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than 48 hours in advance of boring
or jacking operations and backfilled within 48 hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         (b)   Wet boring or jetting. Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         (c)   Borings with diameters greater than six inches. Borings over six
inches (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and following
pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside diameter of
the following pipe by more than one inch (25 mm).
         (d)   Borings with diameters six inches or less. Borings of six inches
or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with auger,
or auger and following pipe method.
         (e)   Tree preservation. Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      (2)   Trenching. Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights-of-way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of Section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction."
         (a)   Length. The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe-line testing. Only
one-half of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless special
permission is obtained from the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Open trench and excavated material. Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by Chapter 6 of the Illinois
Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the road way, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off-road location.
         (c)   Drip line of trees. The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      (3)   Backfilling.
         (a)   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation
of facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction." When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         (b)   For a period of three years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the Engineer or Director of Public Works, the utility, at its
expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the
installed facility, place and properly compact new backfill material, and
restore new pavement, sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as
determined by the Engineer or Director of Public Works.
      (4)   Pavement cuts. Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this division (A)(4)
is permitted under §
53.21, the following requirements shall apply:
         (a)   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Engineer or Director of Public Works.
         (b)   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         (c)   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         (d)   For all rights-of-way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven years, or resurfaced in the last three
years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to be an
emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before the
time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
J.U.L.I.E. locate.
      (5)   Encasement.
         (a)   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         (b)   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (0.3 m) of the right-of-way line. No above-ground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         (c)   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         (d)   In the case of gas pipelines of 60 psig or less, encasement may
be eliminated.
         (e)   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines
with installations of more than 60 psig, encasement may be eliminated only if:
(1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
(2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided;
         (f)   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      (6)   Minimum cover of underground facilities. Cover shall be provided
and maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for
minimum cover for the type of facility:
 
TYPE OF FACILITY                      MINIMUM COVER
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 village)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   (B)   Standards and requirements for particular types of facilities.
      (1)   Electric power or communication lines.
         (a)   Code compliance. Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Ill. Adm. Code Part 305 (formerly General
Order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled "Rules for Construction
of Electric Power and Communications Lines," and the National Electrical Safety
Code.
         (b)   Overhead facilities. Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guy wires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         (c)   Underground facilities.
            1.   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            2.   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: (a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles," "whip augers," or
other approved method which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or (b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            3.   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code.
         (d)   Burial of drops. All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten business days after
placement.
      (2)   Underground facilities other than electric power or communication
lines. Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         (a)   The use of "moles," "whip augers," or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         (b)   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         (c)   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         (d)   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is
not possible by other means.
      (3)   Gas transmission, distribution and service. Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, Part 192 -
Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards (49 CFR § 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction," and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Petroleum products pipelines. Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI Standard Code
for Pressure Piping. (Liquid Petroleum Transportation Piping Systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      (5)   Waterlines, sanitary sewer lines, storm water sewer lines or
drainage lines. Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois."
      (6)   Ground mounted appurtenances. Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation-free area extending one foot (305 mm) in width
beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation-free area may be
provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Engineer or Director of Public Works. With the
approval of the Engineer or Director of Public Works, shrubbery surrounding the
appurtenance may be used in place of vegetation-free area. The housing for
ground-mounted appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the
surroundings.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   General standards. The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction," the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      (2)   Material storage on right-of-way. No material shall be stored on
the right-of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer or
Director of Public Works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit,
wire, poles, cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the
right-of-way prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards
to the public or an obstacle to right-of-way maintenance or damage to the
right-of-way and other property. If material is to be stored on right-of-way,
prior approval must be obtained from the village.
      (3)   Hazardous materials. The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   (D)   Operational restrictions.
      (1)   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right-of-way or other
property.
      (2)   These restrictions may be waived by the Engineer or Director of
Public Works when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of
construction are between sunrise and sunset.
   (E)   Location of existing facilities. Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact J.U.L.I.E. and ascertain the presence
and location of existing above-ground and underground facilities within the
rights-of-way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make
its permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying
possible facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the
village or by J.U.L.I.E., a utility shall locate and physically mark its
underground facilities within 48 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in
accordance with the Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act (220
ILCS 50/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 VEGETATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Electric utilities - compliance with state laws and regulations. An
electric utility shall conduct all tree-trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   (B)   Other utilities - tree trimming permit required. Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right-of-way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      (1)   Application for tree trimming permit. Applications for tree
trimming permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by
competent workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      (2)   Damage to trees. Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   (C)   Specimen trees or trees of special significance. The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   (D)   Chemical use.
      (1)   Except as provided in the following division, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      (2)   Spraying of any type of brush-killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Engineer or Director of Public Works that such spraying is the only
practicable method of vegetation control.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.18 REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Notice. Within 90 days following written notice from the village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any utility
facilities within the rights-of-way whenever the corporate authorities have
determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is reasonably
necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any
village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or upon,
the rights-of-way.
   (B)   Removal of unauthorized facilities. Within 30 days following written
notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights-of-way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      (2)   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      (3)   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      (4)   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   (C)   Emergency removal or relocation of facilities. The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights-of-
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   (D)   Abandonment of facilities. Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights-of-way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within 90
days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the Village Engineer or Director
of Public Works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of
the public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.19 CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and
terrain and other property within ten days after any portion of the rights-of-
way are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by
the utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration
of entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made
using materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer or Director of
Public Works. Such cleanup and repair may be required to consist of
backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to
restore the right-of-way to a condition substantially equivalent to that which
existed prior to the commencement of the project. The time period provided in
this section may be extended by the Village Engineer or Director of Public
Works for good cause shown.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20 MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   General. Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   (B)   Emergency maintenance procedures. Emergencies may justify non-
compliance with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      (1)   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      (2)   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized
agent of the emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken
for protection of the traveling public and what will be required to make the
necessary repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with
the free movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
      (3)   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to
complete repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to
the traveling public.
   (C)   Emergency repairs. The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within 48 hours after
an emergency repair.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.21 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Request for variance. A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village Engineer
or Director of Public Works as a part of the permit application. The request
shall identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is
requested and the reasons why a variance should be granted.
   (B)   Authority to grant variances. The Village Engineer or Director of
Public Works shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision
of this chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   (C)   Conditions for granting of variance. The Village Engineer or Director
of Public Works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the
variance has demonstrated that:
      (1)   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way line) create a special
hardship that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      (2)   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   (D)   Additional conditions for granting of a variance. As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer or Director of Public Works may
require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and
conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but
which carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (E)   Right to appeal. Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Engineer or Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall
have the right to appeal to the Village Board or such other board or commission
as it may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the Village Clerk within 30 days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at
least seven days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board shall timely
decide the appeal.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
§ 53.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it.
(Ord. 2023-04-19, passed 4-19-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   STREET PARKING
      
72.   HEAVY VEHICLES
      73.   ENGINE BRAKING
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Classification of vehicles
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Scene of fire
   
70.05   Signs and signals
   
70.06   Light signals
   
70.07   Unauthorized signs; interference with signs
   
70.08   Animals or bicycles
   
70.09   Exemptions
   
70.10   Stop intersections
   
70.11   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
70.12   Turning on crest of hill
   
70.13   Starting parked vehicle
   
70.14   Driver’s signal
   
70.15   Driving on right side of roadway
   
70.16   Passing vehicles
   
70.17   Overtaking vehicles
   
70.18   Overtaking vehicles on the right
   
70.19   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
70.20   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands
   
70.21   Reckless driving
   
70.22   Speed restrictions
   
70.23   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
70.24   Bicycles and motorcycles
   
70.25   Unattended vehicles
   
70.26   Unattended animals
   
70.27   Clinging to vehicles
   
70.28   Toy vehicles
   
70.29   Riding on running boards
   
70.30   Train signals
   
70.31   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
70.32   Drivers in a procession
   
70.33   Funeral processions to be identified
   
70.34   Backing
   
70.35   Restricted access
   
70.36   Right-of-way
   
70.37   Pedestrians using roadway
   
70.38   Signals
   
70.39   Prohibited crossing
   
70.40   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
70.41   Blind pedestrians; right-of-way
   
70.42   No parking places
   
70.43   Parking at curb
   
70.44   Vehicles for sale
   
70.45   Landing zone
   
70.46   Time limits
   
70.47   Alleys
   
70.48   Bus stands
   
70.49   Clear vision
   
70.50   Unnecessary noise
   
70.51   Horn
   
70.52   Gas and smoke
   
70.53   Projecting loads; width and height
   
70.54   Brakes
   
70.55   Muffler
   
70.56   Lights
   
70.57   Non-skid devices
   
70.58   Tires
   
70.59   Weight
   
70.60   Spilling loads
   
70.61   Bicycles
   
70.62   Liquor or drugs
   
70.63   Accidents
   
70.64   Arrests
   
70.65   Tickets
   
70.66   Parking violation
   
70.67   Operation or use of certain unlicensed motorized vehicles on public
streets, sidewalks and rights-of-way
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A highway of less than 24 feet total width used primarily for
delivery service.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The closely built-up business portion of the village.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of
the sidewalk lines at street intersections.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Police and Fire Department; ambulances;
any vehicle conveying a village official or employee in response to an
emergency official call.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains an
oxidizing or combustive unit or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
   FARM TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designated and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   IMPROVED HIGHWAY. A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the property
lines of two or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such
streets cross.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A street, the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOADING ZONE. The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   METAL TIRE. Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partly of metal or other hard, non-resilient material.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   PARK. To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time
greater than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of
persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PNEUMATIC TIRE. Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support
the load.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. A building used by the village or by any park district,
school district, the State of Illinois, or the United States government.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The closely built-up residence portion of the village.
   ROAD TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other
vehicles and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either
independently or any part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street designed or ordinarily used for vehicular
traffic.
   SAFETY ZONE. The portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency and
operated for the transportation of children to or from school or privately
owned and operated for compensation for the transportation of children to or
from school.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that some part of its weight and that if loads rests upon or is carried by
another vehicle.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
   SOLID TIRE. Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
   STREET. Every way set aside for public travel except foot paths.
   SUBURBAN DISTRICT. The portion of the village other than the closely built
up business and residence district.
   TRAFFIC. Vehicles, pedestrians and draft or herded animals using any street
for travel.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no
part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including bicycles but not including
perambulators or toy vehicles.
(1975 Code, § 20-101)
§ 70.02 CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, motor vehicles shall be divided into two
divisions, to-wit: first, vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not
more than nine passengers; second, those vehicles which are designed and used
for pulling or carrying freight and also vehicles designed and used for
carrying more than nine persons.
(1975 Code, § 20-102)
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a
policeman except in case of emergency.
(1975 Code, § 20-103) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighters designated by
him or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in
directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has
responded in any emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on
the scene, in the absence of or in assisting the police.
(1975 Code, § 20-104)
§ 70.05 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
Village Board or in accordance with the laws of the state. All signs
established by direction of the governing body shall conform to the state
standards for traffic signs.
(1975 Code, § 20-105) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 LIGHT SIGNALS.
   Whenever traffic at an intersection is regulated by the type of signal
commonly known as a stop and go signal, the following colors shall indicate the
following commands.
   (A)   Red requires that traffic faced by this color shall stop and remain
standing.
   (B)   Green requires that traffic faced by this color shall move and
continue in motion, except when stopped for the purposes of avoiding an
accident or when stopped at the command of a police officer.
   (C)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers
of vehicles shall stop before entering the intersection.
   (D)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles may proceed into the intersection only with extra caution.
(1975 Code, § 20-106) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS; INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, maintain or display any
device, other than an official warning or direction sign or signal authorized
by statute or ordinance, upon or in view of any street, if such device purports
to be, or is in imitation of, an official warning or direction signal, or
directs or purports to direct the movement of traffic. Any such unauthorized
device is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be removed by any police
officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or
interfere with any official traffic sign, signal, flare or barricade.
(1975 Code, § 20-107) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal; provided
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks.
(1975 Code, § 20-108) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the movement or parking of
vehicles shall not apply to emergency vehicles while the driver thereof is
engaged in the performance of emergency duties, nor shall such provisions apply
to persons actually engaged in repairing or otherwise improving the streets
under authority of the Village Board or of the state.
(1975 Code, § 20-109)
§ 70.10 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any intersection which has
been designated as a stop intersection and marked with signs, without first
bringing such vehicle to a full stop within ten feet of such intersection.
(1975 Code, § 20-110) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection.
   (C)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being
entered.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway.
(1975 Code, § 20-111) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 TURNING ON CREST OF HILL.
   No vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any curve, or upon the approach to, or near the crest of a grade, where such
vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of any other vehicle approaching from
either direction within 500 feet.
(1975 Code, § 20-112) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1975 Code, § 20-113) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 DRIVER’S SIGNAL.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
   (B)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the hand
and arm or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
the front and rear of such vehicle then said signs must be given by such a lamp
or device.
   (C)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given from
the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals shall
indicate as follows: as set forth in the statutes of the state.
   (D)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over any unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the
Fire Marshal or the assistant in command.
(1975 Code, § 20-114) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway, except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
   (B)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into two marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon; or
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic.
(1975 Code, § 20-115) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 PASSING VEHICLES.
   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions, shall pass each other
to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of
traffic in each direction each driver shall give to the other at least one-half
of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
(1975 Code, § 20-116) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-117) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 OVERTAKING VEHICLES ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and, allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four or more lines of moving traffic when such movement
can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
(1975 Code, § 20-118) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
   (B)   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at any
other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
      (1)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel
or when, approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection or
railroad crossing;
      (2)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway; and
      (3)   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive centerline is marked, which distinctive line also
so directs traffic as declared in the sign manual adopted by the Department of
Public Works and Buildings.
(1975 Code, § 20-119) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   Upon a roadway designated and sign-posted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
(1975 Code, § 20-120) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21 RECKLESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in a municipality in a reckless
or wanton manner, or in a dangerous manner, so as to unnecessarily endanger
life or property.
(1975 Code, § 20-121) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.22 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle of the First or Second Division upon any
public highway or at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper having
regard to the traffic and the use of the way or so as to endanger the life or
limb or injure the property of any person. If the rate of speed of any motor
vehicle of said First or Second Division upon any street or highway in the
village exceeds 25 mph, such rate of speed shall be prima facie evidence that
the person operating such motor vehicle is running at a rate of speed greater
than is reasonable and proper having regard to the traffic and use of the way
or so as to endanger the life or limb or injure the property of any person. The
rate of 25 mph is the legal speed limit in the village, unless otherwise
specifically marked.
(1975 Code, § 20-122) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.23 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any street in such a
manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic thereon.
(1975 Code, § 20-123) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.24 BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES.
   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat attached to said vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-124) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
(1975 Code, § 20-125) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(1975 Code, § 20-126) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle or any toy vehicle, to cling to or attach himself or herself or his
or her vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
(1975 Code, § 20-127) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 TOY VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, coaster, sled or other toy
vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(1975 Code, § 20-128) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board
or outside step of any vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-129) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet but not less than ten feet from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop and remain standing and not
traverse such grade crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman
gives a signal of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus or of any vehicle carrying explosives or flammable liquid as cargo
shall stop such vehicle within 50 but not less than ten feet from the tracks
and shall listen and look in both directions from which a train might come,
before proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided, that such a
stop is not required when traffic at the crossing is directed by an officer or
stop and go light which gives a go signal.
(1975 Code, § 20-130) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter. This provision shall
not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic control
signals or police officers.
(1975 Code, § 20-131) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(1975 Code, § 20-132) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia and by having the lights of each vehicle lighted.
(1975 Code, § 20-133) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1975 Code, § 20-134) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 RESTRICTED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any limited access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(1975 Code, § 20-135) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 RIGHT-OF WAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive into any
crosswalk without the exercise of due and proper care in view of the special
use made thereof by pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle into any crosswalk while
there is in such crosswalk upon the half of the roadway, upon which such
vehicle is traveling any pedestrian engaged in crossing the roadway until such
pedestrian shall have passed beyond the path of such vehicle, when the
pedestrian shall indicate his or her intention to cross.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any such vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk
for the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(1975 Code, § 20-136) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 PEDESTRIANS USING ROADWAY.
   (A)   At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk he or she shall yield the right- of-way to all vehicles upon
the roadway.
   (B)   No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a safety
zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-137) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(1975 Code, § 20-138) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
(1975 Code, § 20-139) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
   (C)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-140) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.41 BLIND PEDESTRIANS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red, or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this act to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver of
every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person, who is not so
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this act relating to pedestrians shall then be applicable
to such person; however, the failure of a blind person to so use or carry such
a cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide dog when walking on streets,
highways or sidewalks shall not be considered evidence of contributory
negligence.
(1975 Code, § 20-141) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.42 NO PARKING PLACES.
   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic
signal:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or the approach thereto;
   (D)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 20 feet of a
point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (E)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal or a through street sign on the
approaching side;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection;
   (G)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (H)   At any curb within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (I)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway or
within five feet of a driveway;
   (J)   Within 25 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (K)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
50 feet of such entrance;
   (L)   On any sidewalk or parkway; or
   (M)   At any place where official signs or markings indicate that parking is
prohibited.
(1975 Code, § 20-142) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.43 PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other
than parallel with the curb and with the two right wheels of the vehicle within
12 inches of the regularly established curb line, except that upon those
streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at
the angle to the curb indicated by such marks, or except on one way streets.
(1975 Code, § 20-143) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.44 VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which said vehicle merchandise is peddled.
(1975 Code, § 20-144) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.45 LANDING ZONE.
   During the times specified herein, it shall be unlawful for the driver of a
vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is
necessary for the loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed five
minutes, and for the driver to stand any freight carrying vehicle for a period
of time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed 30 minutes, in any of the following places:
   (A)   In any public alley, during any hour of the day or night;
   (B)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to any hospital or hotel at any time;
   (C)   At any place not to exceed 75 feet along the curb before the entrance
to a public building between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except on Sunday; or
   (D)   Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time the
theater is open for business.
(1975 Code, § 20-145) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.46 TIME LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any street or alley in the
village for a period of longer than 24 hours and any vehicle left unattended in
any street or alley of the village for more than 24 hours shall be construed to
be a lost or abandoned vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-146) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.47 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1975 Code, § 20-147) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.48 BUS STANDS.
   No vehicle other than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a
bus loading zone.
(1975 Code, § 20-148) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.49 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any vehicle that is so
constructed or loaded that the driver’s view of the roadway to the rear is
obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to give him or her a
view of the roadway behind him or her.
(1975 Code, § 20-149) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.50 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noises.
(1975 Code, § 20-150) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.51 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(1975 Code, § 20-151) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.52 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(1975 Code, § 20-152) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.53 PROJECTING LOADS; WIDTH AND HEIGHT.
   (A)   The maximum width and height of any vehicle and its load shall not
exceed the limits expressed in the state traffic law.
   (B)   No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle, nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
   (C)   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of 42 feet
extreme over all dimension.
   (D)   No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than
two units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load, shall
exceed a total length of 45 feet; but such length limitations shall not apply
to vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles, pipes, machinery
or other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at night time by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work; but such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   (E)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-153) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.54 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon any street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanism operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 20-154) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.55 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working conditions, and the use of
a cutout is prohibited.
(1975 Code, § 20-155) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56 LIGHTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter
may be equipped with not to exceed four lamps which shall emit a blue light
without glare. Two such lamps may be mounted on the front or on the dash and
two may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle, except that a flashing blue
light may be used only when such firefighter is responding to a fire call.
(1975 Code, § 20-156) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.57 NON-SKID DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any street equipped
with any non-skid device so constructed that any rigid or non-flexible portion
thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(1975 Code, § 20-157) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.58 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the state traffic law.
(1975 Code, § 20-158) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the state traffic law for
driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner not
conforming to such law.
(1975 Code, § 20-159) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.60 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its loads spills or drops on
any street or alley in the municipality.
(1975 Code, § 20-160) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.61 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at night time shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly, in front of lawful upper beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. A
lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake.
(1975 Code, § 20-161) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.62 LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic drugs to operate any
motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for any intoxicated
person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a narcotic drug, to
operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street.
(1975 Code, § 20-162) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.63 ACCIDENTS.
   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an accident
with, any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause injury or
damage shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be possible,
and to give his or her true name, and residence to the injured person or any
other persons requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the owner
of the property damaged, and to a police officer if one is present. A report of
each such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle concerned to
the Chief of Police within 24 hours after the accident.
(1975 Code, § 20-163) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.64 ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for a violation of this chapter shall be released upon
proper bail being furnished as required by statute.
(1975 Code, § 20-164) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.65 TICKETS.
   (A)   For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officer, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and
name of the offender where possible) may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases.
   (B)   Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the
offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
(1975 Code, § 20-165) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.66 PARKING VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person accused of a violation of the section prohibiting parking a
vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of time a vehicle may be
there parked, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such
illegal parking by paying to the Clerk the sum of $0.50 within 48 hours of the
time such alleged offense was committed. A receipt shall be issued for all
money so received, and such money shall be promptly turned over to the
Treasurer, to be used in the manner provided for the disposition of fines for
traffic violations.
   (B)   The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to refrain
from instituting prosecution for the alleged offense involved; provided, that
this chapter shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct the
entrance or exit of any place where Police or Fire Department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance to a hospital, nor shall this section apply to any person charged with
parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or alley, or
parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an arterial street to one way
traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked
at the request of any member of the Police Department.
(1975 Code, § 20-166) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.67 OPERATION OR USE OF CERTAIN UNLICENSED, MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON PUBLIC
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an unlicensed, motorized
two-, three- or four-wheel vehicle designed specifically for recreational, off-
road use upon the public streets, sidewalks or rights-of-way within the village
limits of the village, except as permitted in the following.
   (A)   The following vehicles may be operated upon all village roadways:
      (1)   Neighborhood vehicle. A self- propelled, electric-powered, four-
wheeled motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline-powered, four-wheeled
motor vehicle with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) that
is capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than 20 mph, but not more
than 25 mph;
      (2)   All-terrain vehicle. Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, 50 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer’s dry weight of 1,500 pounds or less, traveling on three or more
non-highway tires, designed with a seat or saddle for operator use, and
handlebars or steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as
lawnmowers;
      (3)   Off-highway motorcycle. Any motorized device designed to travel
primarily off-highway on two wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator, upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported
or drawn; and
      (4)   Golf carts.
   (B)   To be permitted to operate on village roads the above listed vehicles
must have the following: brakes; a steering apparatus; tires; a rearview
mirror; red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear; a slow moving
emblem (as required of other vehicles in § 12-709 of the State Vehicle Code,
being 625 ILCS 5/12-709) on the rear of the non-highway vehicle; a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front; a
tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet from the rear;
brake lights; and turn signals.
   (C)   To operate on the roads of the village, the above-listed vehicles must
comply with all of the terms listed below:
      (1)   Be operated only by a person possessing a valid driver’s license
issued by the state or another state;
      (2)   Be insured in accordance with the mandatory insurance provisions of
the State Vehicle Code;
      (3)   When operated on a roadway have its headlight and tail lamps
lighted as required by § 12-201 of the State Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/12-
201;
      (4)   Carry no more passengers that the vehicle is designed to carry;
      (5)   May not per operated by any person under the influence of alcohol
or drugs as prohibited by the State Vehicle Code; and
      (6)   Must be equipped with a muffler sufficient prevent excessive noise
if a gas or diesel powered engine.
(1975 Code, § 20-167) (Ord. 10-14, passed 3-16-2010; Ord. 2003-11-4, passed 11-
18-2003) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less that $50 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(1975 Code, § 20-168)
CHAPTER 71: STREET PARKING
Section
   
71.01   Manner of parking
   
71.02   Vehicles permitted
   
71.03   Time limit
   
71.04   Traffic control
   
71.05   Parking prohibited
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 MANNER OF PARKING.
   Vehicles parked in any parking lot maintained by the village or along any
street shall be parked in accordance with the painted lines upon the surface of
the parking lot or street.
(1975 Code, § 12-101) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 VEHICLES PERMITTED.
   The parking of motor vehicles on Main Street shall be limited to passenger
automobiles and station wagons designated and used for the carrying of not more
than nine passengers or light pick-up trucks; vehicles which are designated and
used for pulling or carrying freight and also those vehicles or motor cars
which are designated and used for carrying more than nine passengers are
prohibited from parking in the village parking lot.
(1975 Code, § 12-102) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 TIME LIMIT.
   No vehicles shall be parked on Main Street for a longer period of time than
24 hours.
(1975 Code, § 12-103) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   The Chairperson of Streets and Public Improvements shall be in charge of all
parking along and upon the streets located within the village. Said Chairperson
shall determine the areas in which there are to be parking, the areas in which
there will be parking upon one side of the street only, all areas where there
are to be no parking and any and all other things in connection with parking
along and upon said streets. Said Chairperson shall also have full authority to
determine and to put into effect all traffic control, including, but not
limited to, providing one-way streets, stop signs wherever said Chairperson
deems it necessary, caution signs, speed limits within the village limits, and
any and all other control of traffic or parking as will be the most beneficial
and best serve the interests of the citizens of the village.
(1975 Code, § 12-104)
§ 71.05 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle on the
west side of Walnut Circle, in Wapella, Illinois, at any time.
   (B)   Signs providing notice of the prohibited parking zone described above
shall be posted at intervals along Walnut Circle.
(Ord. 2024-9-18-A, passed 9-18-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction be punished by a fine of not
less than $1 nor more than $5 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day or each time a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person parking a motor vehicle on the west side of Walnut Circle
as prohibited in §
71.05 shall be punished, upon conviction, not less than $10 and not more than
$750 for each offense.
(1975 Code, § 12-105) (Ord. 2024-9-18-A, passed 9-18-2024)
CHAPTER 72: HEAVY VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Establishment of a truck route
   
72.03   Exceptions
   
72.04   Enforcement
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEAVY VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight of 10,000 pounds
or more, including but not limited to trucks, tractors, wagons, trailers, or
any combination thereof.
   TRUCK ROUTE. The streets of the village upon which heavy vehicles, as
defined above, are allowed to travel.
(Ord. passed 6-19-1991)
§ 72.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   The village has determined that the use of village streets by heavy
vehicles has caused damage to village streets. In order to minimize the damage,
and to minimize the detriment and expense to the people of the village, it has
been determined that it would be in the best interest of the people of the
village to confine the travel of heavy vehicles to certain specified streets
within the village limits.
   (B)   From the date that this chapter has been passed, approved and
published as required by law, it shall be a violation of this chapter to drive
or in any way travel on a street of the village in a heavy vehicle, other than
on the streets designated in the ordinance codified herein as a truck route.
The truck route shall consist of the streets described in Exhibit A, which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof. The truck
route is both described and pictured in Exhibit A.
(Ord. passed 6-19-1991) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the previous portions of this chapter, the following
activities are not prohibited, and are not a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   Any vehicle owned by, and operated by an employee of, any state,
county, township or municipal government;
   (B)   Any person, owning facilities for storage of grain for their
individual farm purposes, which is located within the village limits, is
excepted from the operation of this chapter, but only to the extent necessary
for them to move grain to and from their private grain storage facilities to
the nearest portion of the truck route; and
   (C)   Any person operating a vehicle for the purpose of making a delivery of
goods or services to a resident or business in the village. All deliveries are
to be made on the truck route where possible, and local deliveries are only
exempted from this chapter while operating on the shortest route possible from
the truck route to the place of delivery.
(Ord. passed 6-19-1991)
§ 72.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   All state, county and municipal police authorities, and the Village Street
Commissioner are hereby authorized to issue municipal ordinance violation
citations to the operator of any heavy vehicle found to be traveling on a
street located within the village in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-19-1991)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any time such a citation is issued to a person who has not previously
been cited for being in violation of this chapter, a fine of $25 will be
imposed, if the person so cited, pays his or her fine directly to the Village
Clerk, without contesting the citation in court.
   (B)   Any time a citation is issued to a person who has admitted or been
found guilty of this chapter on one, and only one, prior occasion, the fine
will be $100, if the person so cited, pays the fine directly to the Village
Clerk without contesting the citation in court. In all cases, the potential
fine for violation of this chapter will be in the range from $25 to $500 per
violation.
   (C)   At any time that an action is brought in court concerning any citation
which has been issued concerning an alleged violation of this chapter, wherein
the person cited either admits guilt, or is later found to be in violation of
this chapter by the court, there shall be assessed as additional costs of that
court action, the village’s reasonable attorney fees in an amount not to exceed
$500, along with any and all other costs properly allowable by the court.
(Ord. passed 6-19-1991)
CHAPTER 73: ENGINE BRAKING NOISE
Section
   
73.01   Engine braking noise
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 ENGINE BRAKING NOISE.
   (A)   Prohibited activity. No person shall operate or cause to be used or
operated within the Village of Wapella, an engine braking system that emits
excessive noise on any commercial vehicle within the corporate limits of the
village. For the purposes of this section, an ENGINE BRAKING SYSTEM shall be
deemed to be any device which uses the force of the engine in any commercial
vehicle to slow or alter the speed of the vehicle by the application of force
to the drive train thereof, including but not limited to engine brakes, exhaust
brakes, or other similar systems. A commercial vehicle shall be deemed to be
emitting excessive nose if the vehicle is operating an engine braking system,
and if the vehicle is not equipped with an adequate sound muffling system on
the exhaust thereof.
   (B)   Use permitted in emergency situations. It is a defense to this section
that the driver used an engine braking system that emits excessive noise in an
emergency to avoid a collision with a person or another vehicle on the roadway.
   (C)   Excessive noise signs. In accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code
(625 ILCS 5/12-602.1), the village shall cause signs to be erected and
maintained that prohibit the driver of a commercial vehicle, as defined in the
Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/1-111.8), from operating or actuating any
engine braking system that emits excessive noise. The sign shall state
“EXCESSIVE ENGINE BRAKING NOISE PROHIBITED.”
   (D)   Sign locations. The County Highway Department shall erect, at village
expense, roadway signs at the following village boundaries: Southbound on
Highway 51; Northbound on Highway 51.
(Ord. 2024-03-20-A, passed 3-20-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of §
73.01 is punishable by a fine of up to $750 per offense.
(Ord. 2024-03-20-A, passed 3-20-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
      
91.   ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNUSED VEHICLES
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
94.   OPEN BURNING
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.06   Cemeteries
   
90.07   Premises
   
90.08   Acts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.06 CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to establish or
enlarge a cemetery or in the village bury any person within the village limits,
or within a mile thereof, except in an established cemetery.
(1975 Code, § 31-112) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure or place, to remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any
such structure, building or place, is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1975 Code, § 31-113) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public
health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public.
(1975 Code, § 31-114) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each and every day during
or on which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(1975 Code, § 31-120)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED, INOPERABLE AND UNUSED VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Inoperable vehicles and vehicles not regularly used prohibited
   
91.03   Abandoned vehicles
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle in the state of disrepair rendering the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any vehicle that has not
been moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the village limits.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle (a) from which, for a period of seven days, the
engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, or (b) on which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the motor vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own power, or
      (2)   Any vehicle other than a motor vehicle (a) from which, for a period
of seven days, the wheels or other parts have been removed, or (b) on which the
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being drawn by other power.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE shall not include any vehicle that has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power in the case of
a motor vehicle or drawn under other power in the case of a vehicle other than
a motor vehicle in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
However, a vehicle upon which repairs or services are not concluded within
seven days from the date of the notice specific in §
91.03(A)(5) and (A)(6) shall be considered an inoperable vehicle.
   MOTOR HOME, MINI MOTOR HOME or VAN CAMPER. A self-contained motor vehicle,
not used commercially, designed or converted to provide living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel  use, with or without direct walk through
access to the living quarters from the driver's seat. Such vehicles must
include at least two of the following:
      (1)   A cooking facility with an on-board fuel source;
      (2)   A refrigerator;
      (3)   A toilet with exterior evacuation;
      (4)   A heating or air conditioning system with an on-board power or fuel
source separate from the vehicle engine;
      (5)   A potable water supply system that includes at least a sink, a
faucet, and a water tank with an exterior service supply connection;
      (6)   A 110-125 volt electric power supply;
      (7)   Sleeping facilities.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, but not operated upon
rails, except for vehicles moved solely by human power and motorized
wheelchairs.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   SEMI TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power, used commercially,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power in operation, designed for
carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle including
without limitation semi-trailers, travel trailers, and boat trailers.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, and of a size or weight not
requiring an over dimension permit when towed on a highway.
   VEHICLE. Every device, in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or
exempt from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   VEHICLE NOT REGULARLY USED. Any vehicle which (1) has not been driven off
the premises where it is parked or stored under its own motor power or drawn by
other power for a period longer than four months, or (2) is not registered,
licensed or properly displaying registration plates or stickers as required
under Article IV of Chapter 3 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, or (3) exhibits
damaged parts or parts in disrepair, including, but not limited to, broken and
missing windows, body panels with holes, and fluid leaks, which pose an open
threat of injury or contamination for a period longer than 14 days.
(Ord. 2008-6, passed 6-18-2008; Ord. 2022-9-28A, passed 9-28-2022; Ord. 2022-
12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 91.02 INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND VEHICLES NOT REGULARLY USED PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for
any person to cause, permit or allow the existence of any inoperable vehicle,
any vehicle not regularly used, or any parts of a vehicle to exist or to be
stored upon any public or private property in view of the general public;
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall apply to any vehicle or
part thereof which is kept in a building, or to a vehicle or parts thereof
completely on the premises of a duly licensed junkyard, or to a vehicle on the
premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when
necessary to the operation of such business enterprise.
   (B)   Whenever any Village Officer determines that a nuisance as declared in
this section exists, the Village Officer shall cause a written notice to abate
to be served upon the person who is causing, permitting or allowing the
nuisance to exist. Said notice shall give the person seven days from the date
of service of the notice to abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be by means
of personal service or by certified or registered mail. Personal service shall
be by any Village Officer or any person authorized by law to make personal
service.
   (C)   Any person who shall cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to
continue to exist after the expiration of seven days from the date of the
notice to abate shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a penalty of not
less than $200 nor more than $750 for each such offense. Each day that such
nuisance continues or exists after the expiration of the aforesaid seven days
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. Further, each such inoperable motor
vehicle shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Whenever any person causes, permits or allows such a nuisance to
continue or exist after the expiration of seven days from the service of the
notice to abate, the village may, at its option, cause the abatement of the
nuisance specified in this section by the same method of disposal of abandoned
vehicles provided in §
91.03. Nothing in this section shall be constructed as imposing upon the
village a duty to abate the nuisance specified in this section. The action
authorized by this section shall be in addition to and without waiver to any
other remedies.
   (E)   A person shall fall within the class of persons who shall be deemed to
cause, permit or allow such a nuisance to exist if such person:
      (1)   Has an ownership interest in the inoperable vehicle;
      (2)   Causes the inoperable vehicle to be deposited at the site in
question;
      (3)   Has an ownership or possessory interest in the real estate upon
which the inoperable vehicle is located;
      (4)   Has an ownership interest in or operates a business which causes,
permits or allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon which the
business is operated or on adjacent real estate which is under the control of
the business owner or operator; or
      (5)   Has an ownership or possessory interest in the real estate upon
which a business is being operated and the operator or owner of said business
causes, permits or allows such a nuisance to exist on the real estate upon
which the business is being operated or on adjacent real estate which is under
the control of the person have an ownership or possessory interest in real
estate upon which said business is being operated.
(Ord. 2022-9-28A, passed 9-28-2022; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
Statutory reference:
   Power of the village to declare inoperative motor vehicles a nuisance, see
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3
   Power of the village to define, prevent and abate nuisances, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-60-2;
   Power of the village to promote health or suppress disease, see 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-5
§ 91.03 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in
this village is unlawful and subject to the penalties set forth herein. The
abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private
or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general public,
anywhere in this village is unlawful except on the premises of a business
enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprise.
      (1)   Report of abandonment. When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person who is not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Village of
Wapella when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   Towing of abandoned vehicles. Any Village Officer or the DeWitt
County Sheriff or any Deputy of the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of any abandoned,
lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle. Any such vehicle abandoned on the highway
may be ordered removed after a period of ten hours or more; provided, however,
an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned, or partially dismantled vehicle that
creates a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the highway or
its physical appearance may be immediately removed from the highway or private
property adjacent to the highway upon order of any Village Officer or the
DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department. The Village Officer or DeWitt County
Sheriff’s Department may order any vehicle abandoned on private property to be
towed immediately at the request of the owner of the private property. When a
vehicle is removed from either public or private property by order of any
Village Officer or the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department under this section,
the owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
      (3)   Towing report. When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
village shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the
color, year, manufacturer, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series
name, body style, vehicle identification number, license plate year and number,
and registration sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record
shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location
towed to, reason for towing and name of the officer authorizing the tow. The
towing service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a
record of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other legal
persons entitled to possession thereof, or until the vehicle is disposed of as
provided in this section.
      (4)   Costs of towing, storage, and other fees. The owner, operator, or
any legally entitled person shall be responsible to the towing service for
payment of applicable removal, towing, storage and processing charges and
collections costs associated with the vehicle towed or held under order or
authorization of the law enforcement agency or Village Officer.
      (5)   Identity of owner of abandoned vehicle: notice.
         (a)   1.   When the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department does not know
the identity of the registered owner or other legally entitled person, they
will cause the motor vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to
be searched by the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the required
ownership information.
            2.   The DeWitt County Sheriff's Department will cause the stolen
motor vehicle files of the State Police to be searched by a directed
communication to the Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on
the vehicle. When the Illinois State Police's files are searched with negative
results, the information contained in the National Crime Information Center
(NCIC) files will be searched by the state DeWitt County Sheriff's Department.
The information determined from these record searches will be used by the
DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department in sending notification by certified mail to
the owner or legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held,
requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale information.
Exceptions to a notification by certified mail to the registered owner or other
legally entitled person are set forth in division (A)(6) of this section.
         (b)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department shall notify the State Police for the
purpose of identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of the owner as set forth in division (A)(5)(a) of
this section.
      (6)   Notice and sale of abandoned vehicles.
         (a)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle seven
years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30 days after notice has
been given as provided herein, the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department or towing
service having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the
premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the
sale, the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department where the vehicle is impounded or
the towing service where the vehicle is impounded, shall cause a notice of the
time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner
or other person known by the DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department or towing
service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
         (b)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the DeWitt County
Sheriff’s Department or towing service due to the addressee having moved, or
being unknown at the address obtained from the registration records of this
state, the sending of a second certified notice will not be required.
         (c)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle
of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this section, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein without notice to
the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle.
         (d)   1.   When the identity of the registered owner, lien-holder, or
other legally entitled persons of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
section, the vehicle may be sold as provided in this division (A)(6) without
notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
            2.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this section, or when any such vehicle is towed at
the request or with the consent of the owner or operator, and is subsequently
abandoned, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten days for the purpose
of determining the identity of the registered owner, lienholder, or other
legally entitled person and contacting the registered owner, lienholder, or
other legally entitled person by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for
a determination of disposition; and, an examination of the State Police's
stolen vehicles files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of
the ten day period, without the benefit of disposition information being
received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
person, the Sheriff of DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle in either of the following two ways:
               A.   The DeWitt County Sheriff’s Department will authorize the
disposal of the vehicle as junk or salvage;
               B.   The towing service may sell the vehicle in the manner
provided in this division (A)(6), provided that this division B. shall not
apply to vehicles towed by order or authorization of a law enforcement agency.
         (e)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold
to a person desiring to restore it.
      (7)   Reclamation by owner of abandoned vehicles. Any time before a
vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or
other person legally entitled to its possession may claim the vehicle by
presenting to the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department proof of ownership or
proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released
to the owner or other person under this section until all towing and storage
charges have been paid.
      (8)   Disposition report. When a vehicle in the custody of the DeWitt
County Sheriff’s Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other
legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided by this section, a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department for a period of
one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
      (9)   Proceeds of sale. When a vehicle located within the corporate
limits of this village is authorized to be towed away by the Sheriff or Deputy
of the DeWitt County Sheriff's Department and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be disposed in the municipal
treasury.
      (10)   Any person who is found to have abandoned a vehicle pursuant to
this section shall be subject to a penalty of not less than $200 nor more than
$750 for each such offense.
(Ord. 2022-9-28A, passed 9-28-2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Inspection and Investigation
   
92.01   Inspection and investigation
   
92.02   Notice to abate
   
92.03   Failure to abate after notice; abatement by village; cost
   
92.04   Abatement in case of emergency
   
92.05   Abatement by owner, agent, or occupant where responsible person is
unknown
Nuisances Declared
   
92.06   Things interfering with peace or comfort
   
92.07   Common law and statutory nuisances
   
92.08   Nuisances
Noise Regulations
   
92.20   Recitals
   
92.21   Generally
   
92.22   Sound-amplifying equipment
Abatement
   
92.25   Nuisance abatement
   
92.99   Penalty
INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION
§ 92.01 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   When the existence of a public nuisance is brought to the attention of the
village, the President or his or her designee, shall cause an inspection and
investigation to be made to determine whether removal is necessary.
(Ord 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 92.02 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   After inspection and investigation, under the provisions of the
preceding section, the President or his or designee shall cause a notice in
writing to be served upon the person who is responsible for the existence of
the nuisance. If personal service of the notice cannot be made, then such
notice shall be left at the residence or usual place of business of the person
found to be responsible or on the property on which the nuisance is located.
   (B)   The notice shall indicate the date of the inspection and investigation
and the hours and location where the inspection was made. The notice shall set
forth what the nuisance consists of and indicate the abatement or remedy at
law.
(Ord 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 92.03 FAILURE TO ABATE AFTER NOTICE; ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COST.
   After the expiration of five days from the time the notice is served, if the
nuisance is not abated or other remedy made as required, it shall be abated
pursuant to the nuisance abatement process set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.04 ABATEMENT IN CASE OF EMERGENCY.
   If the nuisance constitutes an emergency, the time for abatement may be
reduced in the notice which specifies that the emergency exists.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020)
§ 92.05 ABATEMENT BY OWNER, AGENT, OR OCCUPANT WHERE RESPONSIBLE PERSON IS
UNKNOWN.
   When any nuisance, or anything likely to become a nuisance, may be found
upon any premises, and the person causing such nuisance is unknown or cannot be
found, the owner, agent or occupant of the premises shall be notified to abate
the same. If such owner, agent or occupant, whose duty is hereby made to abate
such nuisance, shall not promptly comply with such notice, it shall be abated
by the President or his or her designee as provided herein, and the owner,
agent or occupant shall be responsible for the costs of abatement and be
subject to the penalty as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
Penalty, see §
92.99
NUISANCES DECLARED
§ 92.06 THINGS INTERFERING WITH PEACE OR COMFORT.
   (A)   Sound, animals or things which unreasonably interfere with the peace
or comfort or disturb the quiet of any person in the village are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance. Sounds associated with the customary
operation of motorized vehicles and equipment shall not be considered a public
nuisance unless such motorized vehicle or equipment is operated without a
muffler in violation of applicable law.
   (B)   Anything which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained or operated,
or any building or any animal that is kept in the village or outside the
village corporate limits, in a manner which is offensive, nauseous, dangerous
to life, limb, or property or detrimental to the health of the persons residing
in the village shall be a public nuisance.
   (C)   Whoever shall, within the limits of the Village of Wapella, establish
or maintain any tallow, chandlery, tannery, bone, or soap factory, or shall
steam, boil, or render any tainted lard, tallow, offal, or other unwholesome
animal substance shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance.
   (D)   Whoever shall, within the Village of Wapella, place or throw or permit
to be discharged or to flow from or out of any house or premises any filthy,
foul, or offensive matter or liquid of any kind into any street, alley or
public place, or upon any adjacent lot or ground or shall allow or permit the
same to be done by any person connected with the premises under his or her
control, shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance.
   (E)   The various nuisances described and enumerated in this section shall
not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by law.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 COMMON LAW AND STATUTORY NUISANCES.
   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those offenses
known to the common law or of the statutes of the state as nuisances may, in
case the same exists within the Village of Wapella or outside the corporate
limits but adversely affecting persons residing in the village, be treated as
such and proceeded against as in this chapter provided.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 NUISANCES.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances and subject to abatement
as provided in this section:
   (A)   Graffiti. Any wall or exposed surface marked with graffiti as defined
herein shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner of real or personal
property marked with graffiti shall completely remove or permanently cover any
and all graffiti placed on such real or personal property within seven days of
the date the graffiti was placed upon the property. As used in this section,
graffiti shall mean any drawing, inscription, writing, figure, or mark made
upon a wall or other exposed surface, including but not limited to, any house,
garage, rock, bridge, fence, gate, tree, monument, motor vehicle, sidewalk,
street, lamppost, street sign, underpass, or retaining wall, whether publicly
or privately owned with paint, chalk, dye, ink, pencil, wax or other similar
substance or by etching, scratching, cutting, burning, or carving without the
express consent of the owner of said wall or other exposed surface.
   (B)   Standing water as public nuisance. All stagnant water in which
mosquitoes can multiply is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. All items
containing stagnant water which can serve as a breeding ground for mosquitoes
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance. This includes, but is not limited
to, bottles, cans, buckets, swimming pools, clogged gutters, or any other
places containing stagnant water. The outdoor storage of tires for more than
seven consecutive days is declared to be a public nuisance. The foregoing
declarations of public nuisances shall not apply to ditches, drainage ways,
detention basins, lakes, streams, and natural land formations where water may
collect.
   (C)   Prohibited plants. It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or
person in control of any lot, place, or area within the Village of Wapella, or
the agent of such owner or person in control of any lot, place, or area to
permit the growth of any noxious weeds or to permit the growth of turf grass to
a height exceeding eight inches. Such growth is hereby declared to be
detrimental to public health, safety, and general welfare and to be a nuisance.
"Lot, place, or area" includes all the lots, places, or areas, controlled by
the above designated persons or agents, and the public road right-of-way
adjacent to the property line of such lot, place, or area, commonly referred to
as the ditch or parkway. It shall be the duty of any person owning or
controlling a lot, place, or area, within the Village of Wapella to abate the
growth of any noxious weeds and turf grass exceeding eight inches on such lot,
place or area, including such noxious weeds and turf grass located in the
public road right-of-way adjacent to such person's lot, place, or area.
      (1)   Noxious weeds means any plant now or hereafter listed by the State
of Illinois as a noxious weed pursuant to the Illinois Noxious Weed Act, 505
ILCS 100/1 et seq., any plant now or hereafter listed as an exotic weed by the
Illinois Exotic Weed Act, 525 ILCS 10/1 et seq., and poison ivy (Toxicodendron
Radicans), poison oak (Toxicodendron Quericofolium), and poison sumac
(Toxicodendron Vernix).
      (2)   Turf grass means any grass except grasses being grown for food or
agricultural purposes and ornamental grasses which are intentionally,
occasionally, and sporadically planted as part of a landscape design. Grass
shall not be grown within the ditch or parkway for agricultural or food
purposes.
   (D)   Garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulk wastes, brush, construction and
demolition wastes, fill, excavation dirt, and other wastes. The presence upon
land within the corporate limits of the Village of Wapella of accumulated
garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky wastes, brush, construction and demolition
wastes, fill, and excavation dirt mounded above the natural terrain, and other
similar wastes, is hereby declared to be detrimental to the public health,
safety, and general welfare and is declared to be a nuisance. The presence of
brush, construction and demolition waste, fill, and excavation dirt mounded
above the natural terrain shall not constitute a nuisance if it is located on
property of a business licensed by the village and such material is stored in
compliance with applicable law.
   (E)   Neglected weeds, grass, trees, and bushes as all defined by the
Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-7.
   (F)   Pests as defined by the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-8.
   (G)   Infected trees as defined by the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/
11-20-12.
   (H)   Garbage, debris, and graffiti as defined by the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-13.
   (I)   Barnyard animals. It shall be unlawful to use any premises in the
village, for the keeping, harboring, raising, feeding, or grazing, of barnyard
animals as defined herein. Barnyard animal means any domestic animal including
but not limited to cows, swine, goats, sheep, horses, donkeys, mules, and any
other animal traditionally raised on a farm excluding however poultry as
defined in the village zoning code and excluding cats, and dogs.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022; Ord.
2023-10-25B, passed 10-25-2023) Penalty, see §
92.99
NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 92.20 RECITALS.
   The recitals from the ordinance codified herein shall be and are hereby
incorporated into and made a part of this subchapter as if fully set forth in
this section.
(Ord. 8-19-2014, passed 8-19-2014)
§ 92.21 GENERALLY.
   No person, group or gathering of persons, or business shall make or cause to
be made any loud, disturbing or unnecessary sounds or noises such as may tend
to annoy or disturb a person of ordinary sensibilities in or about any public
street, alley or park, or any private residence.
(Ord. 8-19-2014, passed 8-19-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 SOUND-AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the use of sound-amplifying
equipment within the village.
   (A)   The use of loud speakers or amplifiers connected with any radio,
phonograph, microphone or other device by which sounds are magnified and made
heard over any public street or public place is permitted Sundays, Mondays,
Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 9:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   The use of loud speakers or amplifiers connected with any radio,
phonograph, microphone or other device by which sounds are magnified and made
heard over any public street or public place is permitted Fridays and Saturdays
from 9:00 a.m. until 12:00 midnight.
   (C)   The only amplified sounds permitted under this section shall be music
and/or human speech.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, corporation or other
business to use loud speakers or amplifiers connected with any radio,
phonograph, microphone or other device by which sounds are magnified and made
heard over any public street or public place outside of the hours on the days
specified herein above.
(Ord. 8-19-2014, passed 8-19-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
ABATEMENT
§ 92.25 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event any of the nuisances identified in this division exist
within the Village of Wapella, the President or his or her designee shall
notify, in writing, such owner, occupant, person in control, or agent to remove
such public nuisance. In the event such owner, occupant, person in control, or
agent cannot be located after reasonable inquiry, posting shall be sufficient
notice. The notice shall state that unless such nuisance is so abated or
removed by a specified date, the village will cause it to be abated or removed,
that the cost thereof will be charged to the owner, occupant, or person
causing, permitting or maintaining the nuisance, and that such cost shall be a
lien upon the real property where the nuisance was abated or removed. Such
notice shall also state that the failure of such owner, occupant, person in
control, or agent to abate the nuisance as required by such notice shall be
deemed an implied consent for the village to abate or remove such nuisance.
Such implied consent shall be deemed to form a contract between such owner,
occupant, person in control, or agent and the village. If such owner, occupant,
person in control, or agent fails to abate any nuisance within the time limit
specified in such notice, the village may proceed to abate such nuisance,
keeping an account of the expense of the abatement as to each particular lot or
tract, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such owner, occupant,
person in control, or agent.
   (B)   Administrative expense. In addition to the actual costs to abate a
nuisance, the village shall charge a $50 fee to cover a portion of the
administrative costs incurred for removal of the nuisance.
   (C)   Lien or personal judgment. If the costs of abating or removing the
nuisance remains unpaid, the Village of Wapella, at its option, may file a lien
upon the real property where the nuisance was abated or removed, or commence
proceedings in the circuit court seeking a personal judgment from the owner of
or persons interested in such property where the nuisance was abated or
removed.
      (1)   Lien. When the Village of Wapella exercises its right to file a
lien upon the real property where the nuisance was abated or removed, the
village must file a notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
DeWitt County. Such notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred
or payable for the service; and
         (c)   The date or dates when such cost or expense was incurred by the
municipality. This lien shall be superior to all other liens except taxes,
provided, however, it shall not be valid as to any other purchaser whose right
in and to such real estate have risen subsequent to the date on which such
costs were incurred and prior to the filing of such notice, and a lien of the
village shall not be valid as to any mortgages, judgment, creditor, or other
lienor whose rights in and to such real estate arose prior to the filing of
such notice. Upon payment of the costs of and expenses by the owner or any
other person interested in such property after the notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the village, and the release may be filed
of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien. The lien may be enforced
by proceeding to foreclosure, as provided by law.
         (d)   The removal cost is not a lien on the underlying parcel unless a
notice is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The notice must be
delivered or sent after the removal activities have been performed, and it
must: (i) state that a lien will be filed against the property for the cost of
removal activities pursuant to the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15
and the village ordinance authorizing the removal of nuisances (Ord. No. 2020-
10-20B); (ii) identify the underlying parcel, by common description; and (iii)
describe the removal activity.
         (e)   Any person who performs a removal activity by the authority of
the Village of Wapella may, in his or her own name, file a lien and foreclose
on that lien in the same manner as the Village of Wapella as provided by law.
      (2)   Personal judgment. 
         (a)   When the Village of Wapella exercises its right to obtain a
personal judgment against an owner, occupant, person in control, or agent for
the cost of abatement or removal of a nuisance, the village shall file an
action in the circuit court against any person or persons to whom notice was
sent as authorized by this chapter.
         (b)   Said action shall be based upon the implied consent by said
persons to form a contract with the village for the abatement or removal of
said nuisances. The action authorized by this division shall be in addition to,
and without waiver, of any other remedy.
   (D)   Injunction. In addition to the remedies provided herein, the President
is authorized to file an injunction or seek other equitable relief to abate any
public nuisance located within or outside of the village.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee, tenant, or other
person otherwise in control of property to allow a public nuisance as set forth
in this chapter to exist on any property owned, leased, used, occupied, or in
which such person otherwise has an interest to remain on such property.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically
provided, upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than $25 nor more
than $750 for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded
as committed each day upon which said person shall continue such violation or
permit any such violation to exist.
(Ord. 2020-10-20B, passed 10-20-2020; Ord. 2022-12-21B, passed 12-21-2022)
CHAPTER 93: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
93.01   Planting
   
93.02   Unlawful to plant trees and shrubbery
   
93.03   Removal
   
93.04   Injury
   
93.05   Advertisements or notices
   
93.06   Dangerous trees
   
93.07   Wires
   
93.08   Gas pipes
   
93.09   Excavations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PLANTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and
shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board. All trees and shrubs so
planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the Village
Board.
(1975 Code, § 16-101)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL TO PLANT TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to
plant or cause to be planted in any parkway within the village, any tree or
shrub less than three feet from the outer line of the sidewalk.
   (B)   No tree shall be planted in parkways or streets at a distance less
than eight feet from any crosswalk or intersecting street or alley, and no
shrub shall be planted in any parkways or any streets at a distance less than
25 feet from any crosswalk or intersecting street or alley.
(1975 Code, § 16-102)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
Village Clerk and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Council before
permission shall be granted.
(1975 Code, § 16-103)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in any such public
place.
(1975 Code, § 16-104) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(1975 Code, § 16-105) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a less height than eight feet or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows, so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Street Chairperson may trim or remove any tree or shrub so that
the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall be done away with.
(1975 Code, § 16-106) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 WIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the Board.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Street Chairperson so that no injury shall be
done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their contact.
(1975 Code, § 16-107) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 GAS PIPES.
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(1975 Code, § 16-108) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in the streets or other public places, proper care
shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, whenever
possible.
(1975 Code, § 16-109) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter,
where no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 16-110)
CHAPTER 94: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Incorporation of preambles
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibitions
   
94.04   Exceptions
   
94.05   Burning of leaves and landscape waste on public property prohibited
   
94.06   Permit required for burning of construction or demolition sites
   
94.07   Constant attention to open fires required
   
94.08   Garden hose or fire extinguishment devices required
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 INCORPORATION OF PREAMBLES.
   The Board of Trustees hereby determine that the preambles hereto are true
and correct and are incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth at
this point.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any refuse, except garbage and dead animals, generated
on a farm or ranch by crop and livestock production practices, including such
items as bags, cartons, dry bedding, structural materials and landscape wastes.
   GARBAGE. Refuse resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food or food products.
   LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any vegetable or plant refuse, except garbage. The term
includes trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings and crop residues.
   OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the products
of the combustion are emitted to the open air.
   RESTRICTED AREAS. The area within the boundaries of the village, unless said
area is 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003)
§ 94.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall cause or allow open burning, except as provided in §
94.04.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of any refuse in any
chamber or apparatus, unless such chamber or apparatus is designed for the
purpose of disposing of the class of refuse being burned.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following activities are not in violation of this chapter unless they
cause air pollution as defined in state statues or regulations of the State
Environmental Agency.
   (A)   The open burning of agricultural waste, but only:
      (1)   On the premises on which such waste is generated;
      (2)   In areas other than restricted areas;
      (3)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
      (4)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on roadways,
railroad tracks or air fields;
      (5)   More than 1,000 feet from residential or other populated areas; and
      (6)   When it can be affirmatively demonstrated that no economically
reasonable alternative method of disposal is available.
   (B)   The setting of fires to combat or limit existing fires, when
reasonably necessary in the judgment of the responsible government official.
   (C)   The burning of fuels for legitimate campfire, recreational and cooking
purposes, or in domestic fireplaces, in areas where such burning is consistent
with other laws, provided that no garbage shall be burned in such cases.
   (D)   The burning of waste gases provided that in the case of refineries all
such flares shall be equipped with smokeless tips or comparable devices to
reduce pollution.
   (E)   Small open flames for heating tar, for welding, acetylene torches,
highway safety flares and the like.
   (F)   Burning of leaves and landscape waste.
      (1)   Such outdoor burning of leaves and landscape waste shall be allowed
only in containers located not less that 20 feet from any building or structure
on private property only, except that the village may conduct such outdoor
burning in a designated area and it shall be supervised by an officer or
employee of the village and in compliance with the requirements set forth
herein.
      (2)   Outdoor leaf and landscape waste burning shall include only leaves
and landscape waste from trees, plants and shrubs and shall not include burning
of trash, garbage or other disposables or any other materials of any nature
whatsoever.
      (3)   Outdoor leaf and landscape waste burning which is permitted under
this division (F) may be prohibited at any time when, in the opinion of the
appropriate and proper official of the village or of the State Environmental
Protection Agency, atmospheric conditions are such that open leaf and landscape
waste burning would prove harmful to the health of the citizens of the village.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003)
§ 94.05 BURNING OF LEAVES AND LANDSCAPE WASTE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall burn leaves or any other material on a street, right-of-way,
gutter, curb or sidewalk owned by the village.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BURNING OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION SITES.
   During the construction or demolition of buildings or other structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without a permit or other proper authorization.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07 CONSTANT ATTENTION TO OPEN FIRES REQUIRED.
   Open fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person not less than
18 years of age.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 GARDEN HOSE OR FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT DEVICES REQUIRED.
   A garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire extinguishment
equipment must be readily available for use within ten feet of any open fires.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
    PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not provided, shall be fined not more that $ 150 for each offense.
Each day’s violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of §§
94.03 through
94.06 shall be punishable by a fine as follows:
      (1)   First offense: $30;
      (2)   Second offense: $50;
      (3)   Third offense: $100; and
      (4)   Subsequent offenses: not less that $100 nor more that $750.
   (C)   To avoid prosecution for a first, second or third offense under §§
94.03 through
94.08, a violator may within ten days of receiving a citation settle the
citation by payment of one-half of the specified fine at the Village Hall.
Further prosecution shall be ceased for any citation so settled.
(Ord. 2003-11-1, passed 11-18-2003)
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.001   Supervision
   
95.002   Construction
   
95.003   Specifications
   
95.004   Injury to new pavements
   
95.005   Repairs
   
95.006   Defects
   
95.007   Obstruction
   
95.008   Barricades
   
95.009   Disturbing barricades
   
95.010   Private use
   
95.011   Encroachments
   
95.012   Injury
   
95.013   Deposits on streets
   
95.014   Drains
   
95.015   Poles and wires
   
95.016   Gas pumps
   
95.017   Openings
   
95.018   Barbed wire fences
   
95.019   Saturation, wash or damage
Excavations
   
95.035   Permit required
   
95.036   Application
   
95.037   Issuance
   
95.038   Fees
   
95.039   Deposit
   
95.040   Barricades and lights
   
95.041   Manner of excavating
   
95.042   Sidewalks
   
95.043   Time limit
   
95.044   Restoring surface
   
95.045   Supervision
   
95.046   Exemptions
Driveways
   
95.060   Permit required
   
95.061   Grade surface
   
95.062   Materials
   
95.063   Repair
Street Names and Addresses
   
95.075   Title
   
95.076   Adoption
   
95.077   Utility Billings Systems Operator
   
95.078   Notification
 
   
95.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.001 SUPERVISION.
   All the public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the
village shall be under the supervision of the Chairperson of Streets and Public
Improvements and his or her employees. He or she shall be charged with the
enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except
traffic ordinance) and is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinances.
(1975 Code, § 13-101)
§ 95.002 CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley or other public way or to repair the same without first having
secured a permit therefor. Application for such permits shall be made to the
Clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or repairs the
extent thereof and the person or firm who is to do the actual construction
work. No such permits shall be issued except on order of the Village Board.
Said permits shall be issued by the Village Clerk.
(1975 Code, § 13-102) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.003 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in conformity with
specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the Board.
(1975 Code, § 13-103) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.004 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or injure
any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft newly-laid pavement.
(1975 Code, § 13-104) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.005 REPAIRS.
   All public streets, alleys and sidewalk pavement shall be kept in good
repair. Such repair work, whether done by the village or by the abutting owner
shall be under the supervision of the Chairperson of Streets and Public
Improvements.
(1975 Code, § 13-105) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.006 DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street or alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof,
to report the same to the Chairperson of Streets and Public Improvements as
soon as possible.
(1975 Code, § 13-106) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.007 OBSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley sidewalk or other public way,
except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Chairperson of
Streets and Public Improvements when necessary in an emergency or in connection
with any lawful construction, repair or removal work.
(1975 Code, § 13-107) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.008 BARRICADES.
   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in any other
place, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or
vehicle by reason of the work; such barricades shall be protected by lights at
night time. Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury. Any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open by proper barricades and lights.
(1975 Code, § 13-108) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.009 DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricade, or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or excavation or opening in
any public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1975 Code, § 13-109) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.010 PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to use any street,
sidewalk or other public places as space for the display of goods or
merchandise for sale, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements except by authority of the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 13-110) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.011 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1975 Code, § 13-111) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.012 INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street or alley pavement.
(1975 Code, § 13-112) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.013 DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street or sidewalk any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any glass or other articles which
may do injury to any person, animal or property. Coal or other materials may be
deposited in streets preparatory to delivery of use, provided that such deposit
does not reduce the usable width of the roadway at the point to less than 18
feet, provided that such material or coal, other than material to be used in
actual building construction shall not be permitted to remain on such street
for more than three hours. Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights
if same remains upon any street after night time.
(1975 Code, § 13-113) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.014 DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in public street or alley.
(1975 Code, § 13-114) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.015 POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public street, alley or other public way without having first
secured permission from the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 13-115) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.016 GAS PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley or sidewalk.
(1975 Code, § 13-116) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.017 OPENINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway
in any public street or sidewalk or alley without a permit from the Village
Board.
   (B)   All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or railing subject to the approval of the Chairperson of Streets
and Public Improvements.
(1975 Code, § 13-118) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.018 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to person, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within 50 feet
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place,
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(1975 Code, § 13-119) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.019 SATURATION, WASH OR DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful to cause the saturation, wash or damage of any street,
alley or sidewalk by water or other liquid.
(1975 Code, § 13-120) Penalty, see §
95.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 95.035 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under or
to make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place in the
village without having obtained a permit therefor as is herein required, or
without complying with the provisions of this subchapter, or in violation of or
variance from the terms of any such permit.
(1975 Code, § 15-101) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.036 APPLICATION.
   Applications in writing for such permits shall be made to the Village Board
and shall describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size
thereof, the purpose therefor, and the person, firm or corporation doing the
actual excavating work and the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom
or which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that the
applicant will comply with all ordinances relating to the work to be done.
(1975 Code, § 15-102) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.037 ISSUANCE.
   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Board.
(1975 Code, § 15-103)
§ 95.038 FEES.
   The fees for such permits shall be such as may be prescribed from time to
time by the Board.
(1975 Code, § 15-104)
§ 95.039 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   No such permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant therefor
has deposited with the Clerk a cash deposit in the sum of $20, if no pavement
is involved, and $100 if the excavation is in a paved area, to insure the
proper restoration of the ground and laying of the pavement, if any.
   (B)   From this deposit shall be deducted the expense to the village of
relaying the surface of the ground or pavement and of making the refill if this
is done by the village or at its expense, and the balance shall be returned to
the applicant without interest after the tunnel or excavation is completely
refilled and the surface or pavement is restored.
(1975 Code, § 15-105)
§ 95.040 BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person, firm or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury.
(1975 Code, § 15-106) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.041 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in connection
with such work, and notice shall be given to the Village Department or officer
charged with the care of any such pipes, cables or conduits which may be
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree or shrub or
the roots thereof.
(1975 Code, § 15-107) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.042 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
(1975 Code, § 15-108)
§ 95.043 TIME LIMIT.
   (A)   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is
estimated will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration
of the surface of the ground or until the refill is made ready for the pavement
to be put on by the village if the village restores such surface pavement.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation
unless permission for an extension of time is granted by the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 15-109) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.044 RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley or public place in the village shall restore the
surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
Refills shall be properly tamped down, and any bracing in such tunnel or
excavation shall be left in the ground.
   (B)   Any opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface relaid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinance and subject to the supervision of the Chairperson of Streets and
Public Improvements or if such work is not done within ten days after
restoration is possible, the village may restore the surface and charge the
cost thereof to the permittee.
(1975 Code, § 15-110) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.045 SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The Chairperson of Streets and Public Improvements shall from time to
time inspect all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other public place in the village to see to the enforcement of
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to them at least ten hours before the work of
refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(1975 Code, § 15-111)
§ 95.046 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of the chapter relative to securing permits shall not apply
to officers or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the village,
nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise or grant
from the village if such franchise provides for the making of excavations and
tunnels without securing a permit therefor.
(1975 Code, § 15-112)
DRIVEWAYS
§ 95.060 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall construct a driveway for vehicles
across any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a permit
therefor.
   (B)   Applications in writing for such permits shall be made to the Village
Board at a regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for
the habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served,
shall be issued except upon the order of the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 14-101) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.061 GRADE SURFACE.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a steep
sharp depression or other obstruction, in the sidewalk.
   (B)   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery and hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion
vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level.
(1975 Code, § 14-102) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.062 MATERIALS.
   Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete or of such other
materials as may be approved by the Board.
(1975 Code, § 14-103) Penalty, see §
95.999
§ 95.063 REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining a driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and
openings.
(1975 Code, § 14-104) Penalty, see §
95.999
STREET NAMES AND ADDRESSES
§ 95.075 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “An Ordinance to Establish Village of
Wapella Street Names and Addresses” to be adopted under the authority of the
statutes of the state permitting corporate authorities of each municipality of
the state to regulate street names and assign addresses, namely, 65 ILCS 5/11-
80-18 and 65 ILCS 5/11-80-19.
(Ord. 2009-3B, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 95.076 ADOPTION.
   The Village Board shall adopt “An Ordinance to Establish Village of Wapella
Street Names and Addresses” as shown on the map entitled “The Village of
Wapella Official Street Names and Site Addresses”.
(Ord. 2009-3B, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 95.077 UTILITY BILLINGS SYSTEMS OPERATOR.
   Any changes or new addresses will be reconciled with the local Utility
Billing Systems Operator.
(Ord. 2009-3B, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 95.078 NOTIFICATION.
   The local Utility Billing Systems Operator will make written notification to
the owner or occupants of property and to the county emergency services
confirming the new or changed address.
(Ord. 2009-3B, passed 3-18-2009)
§ 95.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.001 through
95.019 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.035 through
95.046 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
95.060 through
95.063 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 14-105)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   AMUSEMENTS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   MERCHANTS
      
113.   CABLE REGULATIONS
      
114.   ADULT USES
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Application
   
110.02   Licenses
   
110.03   Street shows
   
110.04   Athletic events
   
110.05   Inspections
   
110.06   Indecent shows
   
110.07   Riots
   
110.08   Exit lights
Coin-Operated Amusements; Video Gaming
   
110.25   License required
   
110.26   Application for license
   
110.27   Definition of “operator”
   
110.28   License fee
   
110.29   Minors
   
110.30   Licensed video gaming allowed
Parades
   
110.45   Parades; bond
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 APPLICATION.
    The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatrical performances, festivals, fairs and other
amusements in the village, whether specifically licensed in another subchapter
in this chapter or not.
(1975 Code, § 23-101) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 110.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open
to the public and for admittance to which a fee is charged, without having
first secured a license therefor; provided that the provisions of this section
shall not be held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed
by any other ordinance of the village.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Clerk and shall
comply with all of the general provisions of the ordinances relating to such
application.
   (C)    For such licenses the following fee shall be paid:
      (1)   Carnivals: $10 per day;
      (2)   Festivals: $10 per day;
      (3)   Other amusements: $10 per day.
(1975 Code, § 23-102) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 110.03 STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any carnival, exhibition, show or
other amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place
that the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a
public place, except on order of the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 23-103)
§ 110.04 ATHLETIC EVENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit any race between
persons, animals or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or wrestling
matches or any other athletic contest or event for admission to which a fee is
charged without having first procured a license therefor.
   (B)   The proprietor of such event shall submit to the Clerk a statement
verified under oath of the gross receipts of each such game, contest or race,
within one week after such event. At the same time the proprietor or person
exhibiting or operating such event shall pay to the Clerk a sum equal to 3% of
the gross receipts.
   (C)   Sufficient members of the Police Department shall be admitted free of
charge, to all such events for the purpose of preserving and maintaining order,
and the Clerk may post a person or any number of persons at the box office of
each such performance, and may examine all the books pertaining to such
performance showing or tending to show the gross receipts.
(1975 Code, § 23-104) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Village Board and the Fire Marshal to see that
every exhibition, amusement, theatrical performance or other public show or
amusement is inspected by a member of the Police and of the Fire Department,
and to ensure conformity with the provisions concerning such amusements.
(1975 Code, § 23-107) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 110.06 INDECENT SHOWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to present,
exhibit, conduct or take part in any show, theatrical performance, play, motion
picture, exhibition or other form of public amusement or show which appeals to
a prurient interest in sex, portrays sexual conduct in a patently offensive
way, and lacks serious literary, artistic, or scientific value.
(1975 Code, § 23-108) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 RIOTS.
   It shall be unlawful to present any public amusement or show of any kind
which tends to or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance.
(1975 Code, § 23-109) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 EXIT LIGHTS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or
hall used as an assembly hall with accommodations or 50 persons or more in
which theatrical performances, shows, amusements, lectures and other
entertainment is offered, operated or presented to, to provide and place a
sign, on which the word “EXIT” shall appear in letters at least six inches
high, over every door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress
therefrom, and a light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over
such a sign, which light shall be kept burning during the entire period that
the hall is open to the public and until the audience has left the hall.
(1975 Code, § 23-112) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENTS; VIDEO GAMING
§ 110.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation, society, club or association shall keep and
maintain for gain or profit in any place of public resort, either as owner,
licensee, manager, officer or agent any pinball machine, ski-ball machine,
baseball machine, basketball machine, shuffleboard or juke box, or any similar
type of game or machine in which any ball, sphere, missile, arm, crane,
appliance, rod or plunger is struck, released, impelled, controlled or
manipulated directly or indirectly for the purpose of amusement or test of
skill, unless the operator of said machine shall have first obtained a license
for such purpose.
(1975 Code, § 24-101) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application to maintain such devices, machine or game shall be made to the
Village Clerk for a license therefor, stating the full name and address of the
operator and giving the name of the owner of the said machine or game, where
said machine or device is to be used and maintained. Examination of said
operator shall be made by and under the direction of the President of the
Village Board and Corporation Counsel to determine whether or not said operator
is of good moral character and the premises in which it is proposed that such
machine, game or device is to be operated is one of public resort and not
frequented by criminals, felons, vagrants or persons having police records of
crime or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(1975 Code, § 24-102)
§ 110.27 DEFINITION OF “OPERATOR”.
   The term OPERATOR is defined to be any person, partnership, firm or
corporation who sets up for operation by another any machine or device as
herein provided, whether such setting up for operation, leasing, renting or
distributing be for a fixed charge or rental or on the basis of a division of
the income derived from such machine or device or otherwise, and each operator
shall maintain a residence in the village.
(1975 Code, § 24-103)
§ 110.28 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual operator’s license fee to operate or maintain such device,
machine or game shall be $30 each per annum, placed by said operator in the
village. Said annual license fee shall be paid annually on January 1 of each
year.
   (B)   No machine shall be licensed where the reward for skill in the
operation thereof is not plainly posted upon said machine or where the
opportunity for a reward for skill in the operation thereof is not the same for
each individual player.
   (C)   The license herein required for each machine shall be attached to said
machine and shall be non-assignable and non-transferable except upon proof that
said machine is no longer being used and maintained in the village. The said
license shall be posted conspicuously upon each of said machines, and there
shall be no rebate or refund of any license fee, and said license fee shall be
payable in addition to any and all license fees heretofore levied by the
village.
   (D)   The license herein provided shall not authorize the operation of any
automatic pay-off machine or device.
(1975 Code, § 24-104) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.29 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   The wagering of moneys, goods or merchandise for gambling upon the outcome
of such test of skill or amusement or the manipulation of such game, machine or
device is expressly prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter and shall subject the licensee to a revocation of said license. The
license granted under the ordinance may, in the discretion of the President, be
revoked, should the premises be used for immoral purposes or as the
congregating place of vagrants, habitual criminals, felons or persons
heretofore convicted of crime or offenses involving moral turpitude.
(1975 Code, § 24-105) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.30 MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 16 years shall be allowed to play upon said
games.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the proprietor of the establishment in which
any such machine is located to see that minors under the age of 16 years are
not permitted to play said machine or device, and he or she shall be liable for
the violation of this subchapter if minors under the age of 16 years are
permitted to play said machines in his or her establishment.
(1975 Code, § 24-106) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 LICENSED VIDEO GAMING ALLOWED.
   (A)   Recitals. The Village President and Board hereby find that the
recitals in the ordinance codified herein are a full, complete and accurate
representation of the purpose and intent of this section, direct that the
section be liberally construed to accomplish the purpose and intent herein
described, and incorporate the recitals the same as though fully set forth
herein. In the event that any provision or application of this section is found
invalid or unenforceable, it is the desire of the Village President and Board
for the court making such finding to treat the remaining provisions and
alternate applications as severable from the invalidity or unenforceability and
to remain in full force and effect to the maximum extent permitted by law.
   (B)   Definitions. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning ascribed thereto in the Act, including, but not limited
to, the Board, video gaming terminal and licensed establishment.
   (C)   Regulation. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prohibit
video gaming terminals operated in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, 230
ILCS 40/1 et seq., and the regulations of the Illinois Gaming Board promulgated
thereunder, or as otherwise authorized by the state. See §
111.21.
(Ord. 2012-619a, passed 6-19-2012)
PARADES
§ 110.45 PARADES; BOND.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct any parade in or on any public street, alley
or other public way or place in the village, unless a permit therefor is first
obtained from the village. Such permit shall specify the route to be followed,
and shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum of $5,000, conditioned to
indemnify the village for any loss, damage or liability incurred or caused by
the conduct of such parade.
(1975 Code, § 25-107) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
110.01 through
110.12 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 23-113)
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
110.25 through
110.31 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $500 for
each offense, and a separate and distinct offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 24-107)
   (D)    Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
110.45 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 25-108) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.03   Deputy Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.04   Local Liquor Control Commissioner; powers, functions, duties
   
111.05   Compliance required
   
111.06   License required
   
111.07   Classification and fees
   
111.08   Issuance of licenses; period covered
   
111.09   Number of licenses
   
111.10   Application for license; information and facts to be given
   
111.11   License nontransferable
   
111.12   Posting license
   
111.13   Legal age; sales to minors, certain persons
   
111.14   Minors on premises
   
111.15   Sale or delivery to addicted persons
   
111.16   Food for human consumption on premises
   
111.17   Definition of “beverage”
   
111.18   Conflict with state and national laws
   
111.19   Erection of drapes, screens, curtains or partitions for purpose of
shielding activity
   
111.20   Access to other portions of premises
   
111.21   Gambling; licensed video games
   
111.22   Presence of person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs
   
111.23   Application for license
   
111.24   Limitation on description of business
   
111.25   Revoking of license
   
111.26   Violation of any village ordinance or state law
   
111.27   Definition of “person”
   
111.28   Extent of responsibility when violation occurs
   
111.29   Hours of sale
   
111.30   Change of location; permit by Board of Trustees
   
111.31   Liquor in vehicles
   
111.32   Conduct on premises
   
111.33   Sales on credit
   
111.34   Inspection of premises
   
111.35   Employees
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
those in 235 ILCS 5/1-3 through 5/1-3.29 as amended from time to time.
(1975 Code, § 22-101)
§ 111.02 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Village President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and the
person charged with administration of the provisions of the State Liquor
Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5 applicable to the village as well as this chapter
of the village code. If there is no serving president then the Board shall
appoint one of its members as acting Commissioner until a President is
appointed or elected. The Liquor Commissioner shall be paid $20 per month
payable upon the first of each month of service.
(1975 Code, § 22-102) (Ord. 10-5, passed 3-16-2010)
§ 111.03 DEPUTY LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may appoint a person to assist
him or her in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided
for the Local Liquor Control Commissioner in the State Local Control Act and
this chapter.
   (B)   The term of the appointment for the Deputy Local Liquor Control
Commissioner shall receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time
by the Village Board.
(1975 Code, § 22-103)
§ 111.04 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER; POWERS, FUNCTIONS, DUTIES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses:
    (A)   Following Council review and approval, issue a liquor license and
following notice and hearing, suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause any local licenses issued for premises within his or her jurisdiction;
   (B)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to
examine said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
   (C)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under the
General Not for Profit Corporation Act or a foreign corporation functioning as
a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued under that Act has
violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at retail alcoholic
liquors without a retailer’s license;
   (D)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his or her jurisdiction
that any of the provisions of this chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in this manner hereinafter provided;
   (E)   To receive local license fee and pay the same forthwith to the Village
Clerk as the case may be; and
   (F)   To levy fines in accordance with § 7-5 of the Illinois Liquor Control
Act.
(1975 Code, § 22-104) (Ord. 2023-6-21A, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 111.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, employee, servant or agent shall bottle, blend, sell,
barter, transport, deliver, furnish, store or possess any alcoholic or
intoxicating liquor or beverage in the village, except as provided in this
chapter; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall prevent the
possession and transportation of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the
possessor, his or her family and guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider
or other alcoholic liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the
products thereof, by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is
made solely for the use of the maker, his or her family and his or her guests,
as permitted by the laws of the state; and provided further, that the
possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any
church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony
conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any beverages containing less than
0.5% of alcoholic content.
(1975 Code, § 22-105) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall offer for sale, sell, distribute, exchange, barter, solicit
or receive orders for, keep or expose for sale, or furnish any alcoholic
liquor, beer or wine without having an appropriate liquor license, or in
violation of the terms of such license, or in violation of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 22-106) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 CLASSIFICATIONS AND FEES.
   No person shall sell, keep for sale, or conduct any place for the sale of
beverages enumerated in §
111.06, or have in his or her possession, with intent to sell, store or
distribute said beverages, until the following license fee or fees have been
paid, as follows.
   (A)   Class A. Class A licenses shall permit the retail sale, by the drink
only and not by the package, of beer, wine or alcoholic liquors. Such retail
sales shall be made on the premises specified in such license for consumption
on the same premises. All holders of Class A license will automatically hold a
Class P License at no additional cost. The annual fee for Class A license shall
be $1,200.
   (B)   Class B. Class B licenses shall permit the retail sale of any and all
alcoholic liquor, by the drink only and not by the package, for consumption
only on the premises specified in such license in connection with the operation
of a restaurant and only during the times when food is prepared and dispensed
for consumption on the premises.
      (1)   Such retail sale shall only be made:
         (a)   On the premises specified in the license;
         (b)   With food served to the customer; and
         (c)   At a dining table and not across a bar.
      (2)   The annual fee for Class B liquor licenses shall be $750.
   (C)   Class C. Class C licenses shall permit the retail sale, by the drink
only and not by the package, of beer, wine or alcoholic liquors by clubs and
shall be issued only to clubs. Such retail sales shall be made on the premises
specified in the license for consumption on the same premises. No Class C
license shall sell or furnish in any way beer, wine or alcoholic liquors to any
person unless such a person is a member in good standing or a guest accompanied
by a member in good standing and unless such guest has first signed a guest
register provided by the licensee. There shall be no more than two guests per
member by population. The annual fee for a Class C license shall be $1,200.
   (D)   Class P. Class P licenses shall permit the retail sale, by the package
only and not by the drink, of beer, wine or alcoholic liquors in the original
unopened container for consumption off the premises specified in such license.
There will be no additional fee to Class A license holders. The annual fee for
a Class P license shall be $1,200.
   (E)   Class TX. Class TX licenses are temporary in nature and shall permit
the retail sale, by the drink only and not by the package, of beer, wine or
alcoholic liquors at times when such sale would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
      (1)   Class TX licenses shall only be issued:
         (a)   To a licensee already holding Class A, B or C license; and
         (b)   For a specified consecutive length of time which shall in no
case exceed four hours.
      (2)   Not more than six Class TX licenses shall be granted to any one
organization in any one calendar year. The fee for a Class TX license shall be
$25. Notwithstanding any provisions contained in this chapter concerning hours
of operation, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall establish the hours
of operation of each Class TX license issued. The Class TX license must be
requested and paid for at least five business days before the event.
   (F)   Class S. Class S licenses are issued only to holders of Class A, B and
C licenses and shall permit the retail sale, by the drink only and not by the
package, of beer, wine or alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises
specified in such license on Sundays. All holders of a Class S license
automatically hold a Class SP license at no additional cost. The annual fee for
a Class S license is $300.
   (G)   Class SP. Class SP licenses are issued to holders of Class P licenses
and shall permit the retail sale, by the package only and not by the drink, of
beer, wine or alcoholic liquors in the original unopened container for
consumption off the premises specified in such license on Sundays. There will
be no additional fee to Class S license holders. The annual fee for Class SP
license is $300.
(1975 Code, § 22-107) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; PERIOD COVERED.
   (A)   All licenses issued shall expire at 12:00 midnight on the last day of
June, following the issuance thereof; or at 12:00 midnight on the last day of
December, following the issuance thereof, whichever shall come first. Said
licenses shall be for the period of six months, to-wit:
      (1)   From January 1 to 12:00 midnight on the last day of June; provided
licenses issued before the last day of June of any year shall expire at
midnight the last day of June, following the date of issuance and shall then,
when renewed, be for the period of six months; and
      (2)   From June 1 to 12:00 midnight on the last day of December; provided
licenses issued before the last day of December of any year shall expire at 12:
00 midnight the last day of December, following the date of issuance and shall
then, when renewed, be for the period of she months.
   (B)   For each month of said fractional portion of said year, the license
fee shall be one-twelfth of the total annual license fee times the months
covered by said licenses or the fraction thereof.
(1975 Code, § 22-108)
§ 111.09 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The Village Board may in its discretion limit the number of licenses issued
in any classification.
(1975 Code, § 22-109)
§ 111.10 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATION AND FACTS TO BE GIVEN.
   (A)   All applications for licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk,
properly filled out, upon blank forms to be furnished by said Village Clerk,
and upon any application being delivered to said Village Clerk in proper form
the same shall be delivered to and presented to the President and Board of
Trustees at the next regular or special meeting of said Village Board following
the delivery of said application to the said Village Clerk. All license fees
herein prescribed shall be payable six months in advance and shall not be in
force until said fee is paid to the Village Clerk. No rebate for any license
fee or any portion thereof shall be paid to or be available to any licensee on
account of said license having been revoked, by whatsoever authority, for any
violation of any ordinance of the village, or any state law pertaining to the
conduct of the business covered by this chapter or the conduct of any business
conducted by said licensee in connection with the sale of malt beverages,
distilled alcoholic liquors or wines, the storage of beverages herein covered
or the distribution of same.
   (B)   Every application for license covered by this chapter shall state in
said application, at minimum:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The location of the premises where it is intended to sell, store or
distribute, or manufacture beverages covered by this chapter;
      (3)   Whether applicant desires to sell for consumption on or off
premises, or whether applicant is to be retailer, wholesaler or distributor or
manufacturer;
      (4)   Whether applicant is able and willing to give bond and security as
provided by said ordinance;
      (5)   Whether applicant has ever been convicted of any felony by the
final judgment of any court of competent jurisdiction;
      (6)   Applicant’s present place of residence and whether American-born or
naturalized, and if naturalized, the date and place of naturalization; and
      (7)   Whether applicant is a person addicted by habit to the abnormal use
of distilled alcoholic liquors, malt beverages or fruit or vinous beverages.
(1975 Code, § 22-110)
§ 111.11 LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be assignable and a licensee
shall permit the sale of such alcoholic liquor as he or she is licensed to sell
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon written permit to make such change issued by the
Mayor, and no change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of the state and the provisions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 22-111)
§ 111.12 POSTING LICENSE.
   Any license issued under this chapter shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on said premises operating under said license, and any state or federal license
governing said subject matter likewise be posted.
(1975 Code, § 22-112)
§ 111.13 LEGAL AGE; SALES TO MINORS, CERTAIN PERSONS.
   (A)   Legal age for the sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages for
purposes of this chapter shall be in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (B)   No licensee, nor any other officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor
to any person under the age of 21 years or to any intoxicated person or to any
person known by him or her to be under legal disability or in need of mental
treatment.
(1975 Code, § 22-113) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the holder of any license to allow any person
under 21 years of age except for employees of said license holder to attend or
loiter in or about the bar area of the premises wherein alcoholic liquor, beer
or wine is sold by the licensee for consumption on the premises.
      (1)   No minor shall purchase for himself or herself or any other person
any alcoholic liquor, beer or wine from any licensee within the village.
      (2)   Further, no minor shall be allowed to have in his or her possession
any alcoholic liquor, beer or wine upon the public streets within the village,
and further, no person shall purchase for any minor or give to any minor any
alcoholic liquor, beer or wine within the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term BAR AREA shall include all
that portion of the premises where in alcoholic liquors, beer or wine is sold
that contains a service bar and is not physically separated from the remaining
portion of said premises. Physical separation shall meet the standards set for
in §
111.29.
(1975 Code, § 22-114) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.15 SALE OR DELIVERY TO ADDICTED PERSONS.
   Sale or delivery to persons addicted by habit to the abnormal use of
distilled alcoholic liquors, wines, malt or vinous beverages shall be
prohibited.
(1975 Code, § 22-115) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 FOOD FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   Food “for human consumption on the premises” must be offered for sale in all
places having distilled alcoholic liquors, beer, wine or other beverages herein
specified and must be kept for sale to the public. This section means a bona
fide keeping of food for human consumption, and not a mere technical possession
of a certain food or provision as a shift or device to evade this chapter or
law.
(1975 Code, § 22-116)
§ 111.17 DEFINITION OF “BEVERAGE”.
   The term BEVERAGE, when used in this chapter shall include and be held to
mean distilled alcoholic liquors, malt or fermented liquor, fruit juices
fermented, liquids and compounds fit for beverages purposes obtained by the
alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or decoction of barley malt and hops in
drinking water, whether medicated, proprietary, patented or in any by whatever
name called, fermentation of fruit or other juices, singly or compounded,
containing more than 0.5% by weight and not to exceed 4% of alcoholic content
by volume.
(1975 Code, § 22-117)
§ 111.18 CONFLICT WITH STATE AND NATIONAL LAWS.
   This chapter is intended to be in harmony with the laws and regulations of
the United States and with the laws of the state, pertaining to the
manufacture, sale and distribution of beverages, heretofore defined, and any
conflict herewith with the above laws shall render said portion or part of said
chapter inoperative and void, but shall not affect the remaining and valid
portions of this chapter. Any enactment of law by the United States or the
state, invalidating any portion of this chapter shall apply to said part or
portions contrary thereto, by such law that may be hereafter enacted.
(1975 Code, § 22-118)
§ 111.19 ERECTION OF DRAPES, SCREENS, CURTAINS OR PARTITIONS, FOR PURPOSE OF
SHIELDING ACTIVITY.
   No drapes, screens, curtains or partitions shall be erected either inside or
outside a distilled alcoholic liquor, beer, wine or beverage selling
establishment, which completely separates from view the selling and consumption
of said beverages from any other business conducted by said licensee.
(1975 Code, § 22-119) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 ACCESS TO OTHER PORTIONS OF PREMISES.
   Except in the case of hotels, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail
upon any premises which has access which leads from such premises to any other
portion of the building or structure used for dwelling or lodging purposes and
which is permitted to be used or kept accessible for use by the public. This
provision shall not prevent any connection between such premises and such other
portion of the building or structure, which is used by the licensee, his or her
family and personal guests.
(1975 Code, § 22-120) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 GAMBLING; LICENSED VIDEO GAMES.
   (A)   Recitals. 
      (1)   The Village President and Board hereby find that the foregoing
recitals are a full, complete and accurate representation of the purpose and
intent of this section, direct that the section be liberally construed to
accomplish the purpose and intent herein described, and incorporate the
recitals the same as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   In the event that any provision or application of this section is
found invalid or unenforceable, it is the desire of the Village President and
Board for the court making such finding to treat the remaining provisions and
alternate applications as severable from the invalidity or unenforceability and
to remain in full force and effect to the maximum extent permitted by law.
   (B)   Definitions. All capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall
have the same meaning ascribed thereto in the Act, including, but not limited
to, the Board, video gaming terminal and licensed establishment.
   (C)   Regulation. 
      (1)   No gambling game shall be played, kept, allowed or used on any
premises licensed hereunder.
      (2)   For purposes hereof, GAMBLING GAME includes, but is not limited to,
the following when used as a wagering device: baccarat; twenty-one; poker;
craps; slot machine; video game of chance; roulette; Klondike table; punch
board; faro; keno; numbers ticket; push card; jar ticket; pull tab; and the
like. Notwithstanding, video gaming terminals may be operated in accordance
with the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., and the regulations of the
Illinois Gaming Board promulgated thereunder, or as otherwise authorized by the
state.
      (3)   The owner of a licensed establishment where a video gaming terminal
is operated shall conspicuously post the license for such video gaming terminal
in view of the public.
(1975 Code, § 22-121) (Ord. 2012-619a, passed 6-19-2012) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.22 PRESENCE OF PERSON UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR
DRUGS.
   No person under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs of any kind,
shall be allowed upon the premises of any licensee.
(1975 Code, § 22-122) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   License applications shall be issued pursuant to the order and allowance of
the Village Board by majority vote thereof.
   (A)   No license shall be authorized by said Village Board unless the
application for license shall state the true name of the applicant, the correct
address and age of the applicant; the correct description and location of the
premises or place where beverages are sold, to be sold, stored, distributed or
manufactured; the willingness of applicant to abide by all ordinances of said
village and of the laws of the state pertaining to said subject matter;
   (B)   A person who is not of good moral character and reputation in the
community of the village;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked, or
whose license issued by the state covering the same subject matter has been
revoked for cause, or who has been convicted of a violation of the law for the
sale, possession and transportation of alcoholic liquor or beverages covered
herein;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A partnership or co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-
partnership shall be qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the capital
stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder
for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under Illinois Business Corporation
Act, being 805 ILCS 5 to transact business in the state;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
license;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the passage of the act of the state permitting the selling and
licensing of such sales, or shall have forfeited a bond to appear in court to
answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, Mayor or member of the Village
Board; and no such official shall be interested in any way either directly or
indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of § 28-1 of, or as proscribed by §
28-3 of the Criminal Code of 1961, approved July 28, 1961, as heretofore or
hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the
aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (R)   Any persons to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued as follows.
      (1)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period.
      (2)   A co-partnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a
federal wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the
current tax period, or if any of the partners have been issued a federal gaming
device stamp or federal wagering stamp by the federal government for the
current tax period.
      (3)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than 20% of the stock of such
corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp for the current tax period.
      (4)   Any premises for which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   (S)   Any person under the age of 21 years;
   (T)   Any person having a place of business or location within the territory
prohibited by the zoning locations herein prescribed;
   (U)   No license shall be issued or application for license approved unless
applicant is willing to give the bond or security and does give bond or
security provided by this chapter;
   (V)   No license shall be issued, and in event a license has been issued,
the same shall become void, unless applicant immediately complies with the laws
and regulations of the state pertaining to said beverages to be sold, stored,
manufactured or distributed and shall secure necessary license or licenses from
said state for the lawful conduct of said business in beverages;
   (W)   No license shall be granted or allowed to any person addicted by habit
to the abnormal use of distilled alcoholic liquor, malt or vinous beverages;
   (X)   No license shall be granted to any person not of normal mind;
   (Y)   No license shall be issued to any person under this chapter for the
sale, at retail of any alcoholic liquor, where the proposed location is within
100 feet of any church, parsonage, school, hospital or home for aged persons;
and
   (Z)   No license shall be issued unless a petition consenting to such
issuance is filed with the Village Clerk with the signatures of all of the
owners of real estate within 400 feet in all directions of the proposed
business to sell alcoholic beverages, exclusive of streets and alleys. Said
petition shall be filed with the application for the license.
(1975 Code, § 22-123) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.24 LIMITATION ON DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS.
   No person dealing in beverages under this chapter shall use the term
“saloon” or the term “dram shop” in describing said place of business or in the
advertising of the same.
(1975 Code, § 22-124) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.25 REVOKING OF LICENSE.
   The Board of Trustees of the village shall have power and authority to
revoke said license, or any license issued under the provisions of this
chapter, for the following reasons:
   (A)   For any false statement made by said applicant in the application for
license;
   (B)   For any violation of the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   For the violation of any law of the state pertaining to the sale,
manufacture or distribution of beverages;
   (D)   For the violation of any law of the United States pertaining to
beverages;
   (E)   Said license may be revoked by said Board of Trustees for failure to
comply with any regulation specified in this chapter or hereinafter enacted by
said Board of Trustees for the regulation or control or licensing of beverages;
and/or
   (F)   For failure to make payment of the license fee in advance as provided
by this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 22-125)
§ 111.26 VIOLATION OF ANY VILLAGE ORDINANCE OR STATE LAW.
   No licensee shall permit any violation of any village ordinance any
violation of any law of the state in connection with the operating of or
management of any business, service profession or enterprise, operated or
conducted in the location of, adjacent thereto, or in connection with said
business of selling or storing or distributing alcoholic beverages, or in the
manufacture thereof.
(1975 Code, § 22-126) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 DEFINITION OF “PERSON”.
   The term PERSON as used in this chapter shall mean and be held to mean and
include any person, firm or corporation, organization or club.
(1975 Code, § 22-127)
§ 111.28 EXTENT OF RESPONSIBILITY WHEN VIOLATION OCCURS.
   Any violation of this chapter by any agent, employee or manager, shall also
be the violation of such licensee, as well as of such agent, employee or
manager.
(1975 Code, § 22-128) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 HOURS OF SALE.
   Beverages, alcoholic liquor or spirits, beer or wine covered by this chapter
shall be sold only during the following hours.
   (A)   For Class A, B, C and P license holders:
      (1)   Monday through Thursday: from 6:00 a.m. each day until 12:00
midnight that same day, provided however when New Year’s Eve falls on a Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday, the licensee may sell until 2:00 a.m the
following day;
      (2)   Friday and Saturday: From 6:00 a.m. each day until 2:00 a.m. the
following day; and
      (3)    6:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m. on Sundays for licensees holding a
Class S or SP license. On Super Bowl Sunday, the holder of Class S or SP
license may sell between the hours of 6:00 a.m. until one hour past the end of
the football game, or 10:00 p.m., whichever is later. The holder of an S or SP
license shall not be entitled to a TX license.
   (B)   No license holder, except holders of an S or SP license as provided
above, may sell alcoholic liquor or spirits, beer or wine between 2:00 a.m.
Sunday and 12:00 midnight Sunday; provided, however, if New Year’s Eve falls on
a Sunday, any licensee may sell alcoholic liquor or spirits, beer or wine on
such day between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m the following day
(Monday).
   (C)   All premises on which alcoholic liquor, beer or wine is sold, must be
vacated by the public within 30 minutes of the time specified in this section
for the cessation of the selling of alcoholic liquors. All alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine must be removed and not made available for use by persons
remaining on the premises past 30 minutes of the time specified for the
cessation of the selling of alcoholic liquors.
   (D)   Any licensee engaged in other business activities on the premises who
shall be open for business during any time that the sale of alcoholic liquors,
spirits, beer or wine is prohibited, must keep all alcoholic liquor, spirits,
beer or wine in a physically separated area of the premises and shall keep such
an area enclosed to the public during the hours that the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
   (E)   Physical separation shall meet the following standards.
      (1)   A permanent partition at least seven feet high constructed of
material strong enough to restrain persons from illegal entry into the liquor
sales area, or an enclosed display case accessible only to the licensee and at
least five feet distant from the nearest point of access by the public.
      (2)   A barrier of all entrances and exists to a liquor sales area. Said
barrier must be constructed of a material which will prevent access by body or
reach into the liquor sales area during the hours that liquor may not be sold.
      (3)   A single separate checkout counter for the sole purpose of checking
liquor or where one cash register is to serve a dual purpose the configuration
situated in such a manner as not to force patrons purchasing goods other than
liquor into the liquor sales area.
(1975 Code, § 22-129) (Ord. 10-20-2015, passed 10-20-2015; Ord. 2020-01-21,
passed 1-21-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.30 CHANGE OF LOCATION; PERMIT BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   No licensee shall operate at any location, except such location as is
specified in said license permit, and said licensee desiring to change his or
her location and business as herein covered shall make application to said
Board of Trustees for a permit for the change of location, and when said permit
is granted said license shall cover said new location but said license
originally granted shall not cover any location to which applicant or licensee
shall have moved to without the consent of said Board of Trustees, but no
further license fee for the conduct of the same business shall be required. In
event of application to change location, applicant must satisfy requirements of
§
111.11.
(1975 Code, § 22-130) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.31 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES.
   No persons shall, within the village, suffer or permit any bottle, container
or utensil containing intoxicating liquor to be located in, upon or attached to
any motor vehicle, upon any public street or alley in the village unless the
seal and wrapper originally placed upon said bottle, container or the like, is
unbroken and in the condition that the purchase was originally made in.
(1975 Code, § 22-131) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   No licensee shall permit any illegally or disorderly conduct or immoral
practices under the licensed premises.
(1975 Code, § 22-132) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 SALES ON CREDIT.
   No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in exchange for any goods,
wares or merchandise, or in payment of any services rendered; and if any person
shall extend credit for such purposes the debt thereby attempted be created
shall not be recoverable by law; provided that nothing herein contained shall
be construed to prevent any club from permitting checks or statements for
alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests of members and
charged to the account of such members or guest in accordance with the bylaws
of such club; and provided further that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent any hotel from permitting checks, statements for liquor to
be signed by regular guests residing at said hotel and charged to the accounts
of said guests; and provided further that nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent payment by credit card or other credit device for the purchase of
liquor in the original package or container for consumption off the premises.
(1975 Code, § 22-133) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The Local Liquor Commissioner or any village or police officer may at
any time inspect the premises of a licensee to secure compliance of any
provision of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person
in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto, for the purpose of
making such inspection at any time that admission is requested by any
authorized officer of the village.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Local
Liquor Commissioner may revoke the license of any licensee who refuses to
permit any such officer who is authorized, to make such inspection, or who
interferes with such officer while in the performance of his or her duty in
making such inspection.
(1975 Code, § 22-134)
§ 111.35 EMPLOYEES.
   (A)    No licensee shall employ any person under the age of 18 years to sell
or serve wine or beer, nor anyone under the age of 21 years to be employed as a
bartender in the preparation of hard liquors, except that a person of 18 years
or older may serve such liquor to tables beyond the bar or place of
preparation.
   (B)   No licensee, in the sale of packaged liquor, shall permit an employee
under the age of 18 years to sell or serve wine or beer, or alcoholic liquor
unless there shall be on the premises a manager or supervisor who had attained
the age of 21 years.
(1975 Code, § 22-135) (Ord. 2021-06-16, passed 6-16-2021) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, or any agent, employee or manager of
any person, firm or corporation, violating any section, paragraph or part of
this chapter shall forfeit and pay or shall be fined a minimum of $500, and/or
suspension or revocation of license for each and every violation thereof.
   (B)   All convictions for violation of this chapter shall provide that the
defendant make payment of costs.
(1975 Code, § 22-136)
CHAPTER 112: MERCHANTS
Section
Itinerant Merchants
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Applications
   
112.03   Fees
   
112.04   Itinerant photographers
Junk Dealers
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Applications
   
112.17   Fee
   
112.18   Stolen goods
   
112.19   Vehicles
   
112.20   Junk yards
Peddlers
   
112.35   License required
   
112.36   Fee
   
112.37   Applications
   
112.38   Fraud
Solicitors
   
112.50   Registration
   
112.51   Fee
   
112.52   Certificate
   
112.53   Revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to do business in the village as an itinerant
merchant without having first secured a license as is herein provided.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, any merchant engaging or intending to
engage in business as a merchant in the village for a period of time not
exceeding 100 days shall be considered as an itinerant merchant, provided that
peddlers shall not be considered itinerant merchants.
(1975 Code, § 27-101) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Every application for such license shall set forth the commodities to be
sold, and the place intended to be occupied or used for the business.
(1975 Code, § 27-102) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 FEES.
   The fees for licenses shall be $50 for one month and $10 per day.
(1975 Code, § 27-103)
§ 112.04 ITINERANT PHOTOGRAPHERS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do business as an
itinerant photographer in the village without first having secured a license
therefor and furnishing bond as is herein required.
      (2)   The fee for such licenses shall be $10 per day for each person
soliciting orders for or taking pictures.
   (B)   A bond in the amount of $1,000 shall be filed before such license
shall be issued, conditioned upon compliance by the applicant and all employees
or associates working with him or her in the village of all ordinances
pertaining to such business and upon fulfillment of any contract entered into
between such itinerant photographers and any person in the village.
(1975 Code, § 27-104) Penalty, see §
112.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 112.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or
keep a junk shop, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old
rope, paper or baggings, oil, iron, brass, copper or empty bottles, without
having obtained a license therefor as is herein provided.
(1975 Code, § 27-106) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of the ordinance relating to licenses.
(1975 Code, § 27-107)
§ 112.17 FEE.
   The fee to be paid for such license shall be $50 annually.
(1975 Code, § 27-108)
§ 112.18 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every dealer in junk who shall receive or be in possession of any goods,
article or things which may have been lost or stolen shall upon demand produce
such article or thing to any member of the Police Department asking to examine
the same.
(1975 Code, § 27-109) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 VEHICLES.
   Each vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his or her business
shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and
proprietor thereof.
(1975 Code, § 27-110) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 JUNK YARDS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any junk, as mentioned in the first
section of this subchapter, or to establish or maintain any junk yard in the
village unless the written consent of the owner of a majority of the property
within a radius of 300 feet from the premises to be so used is first obtained
and filed in accordance with the ordinances provisions relating to frontage
consents.
(1975 Code, § 27-111) Penalty, see §
112.99
PEDDLERS
§ 112.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler in the village without having first obtained a
license therefor as provided herein.
(1975 Code, § 27-113) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a peddler or hawker using a cart, wagon, auto or any other
vehicle shall be $25 for each cart or other vehicle for a yearly license; $10
for each cart or other vehicle for a monthly license and $5 for each cart or
vehicle for a daily license.
   (B)   The fee for peddlers or hawkers not using any vehicle shall be $20 for
a yearly license; $8 for a monthly license and $5 for a daily license.
(1975 Code, § 27-114)
§ 112.37 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for peddlers’ and hawkers’ licenses shall be made to the
Village Clerk, and shall state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended
to be operated; the kind of article or merchandise to be peddled; and a
permanent address of the peddler.
   (B)   No license shall be issued without the payment of the fee provided in
the preceding sections.
(1975 Code, § 27-115)
§ 112.38 FRAUD.
   See §
112.99.
SOLICITORS
§ 112.50 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each and every solicitor, salesperson and canvasser who is about to
call from house to house in the village in the duties of his or her employment
shall first register in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The registration shall give his or her complete identification, his or
her signature, the name of his or her employer, the nature of the products or
services in which he or she is interested, and the names of the manufacturer of
such products and of his or her employer, and the proposed method of operation
in the village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any such solicitor, salesperson or canvasser
to fail to register as herein provided.
(1975 Code, § 27-118) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.51 FEE.
   Each registration shall pay to the Village Clerk a registration fee of $50
for the period expiring 90 days after the date of registration.
(1975 Code, § 27-119) (Ord. 2003-11-2, passed 11-18-2003)
§ 112.52 CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and pays the fee
provided for, shall be furnished a certificate indicating that he or she has
registered and showing the dates covered by such registration.
   (B)   Each registrant shall at all times while soliciting or canvassing in
the village carry upon his or her person the registration certificate and the
same shall be exhibited by the registrant whenever he or she is requested so to
do by the President or by any person solicited.
(1975 Code, § 27-120)
§ 112.53 REVOCATION.
   Any such registration may be revoked by the President because of violation
by the registrant of any ordinances of the village or any state or federal law,
or whenever the registrant shall cease to possess the character and
qualifications required by this chapter for the original registration.
(1975 Code, § 27-121)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
112.01 through
112.04 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 27-105)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
112.15 through
112.20 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(1975 Code, § 27-112)
   (D)   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud,
cheating or misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an
employee, while acting as a peddler in the village, or who shall barter, sell
or peddle any goods, wares or merchandise other than those specified in his or
her application for a license shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than
$100 for offense, and the President may revoke his or her license for such
offense.
(1975 Code, § 27-116)
   (E)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
112.35 through
112.38 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
each day on which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
(1975 Code, § 27-117)
CHAPTER 113: CABLE REGULATIONS
Section
Regulations
   
113.01   Recitals
   
113.02   Regulations
   
113.03   Service on video service providers
Provider Fee
   
113.15   Service provider fee
   
113.16   Audit
   
113.17   Insurance
   
113.18   Applicable law
REGULATIONS
§ 113.01 RECITALS.
   The facts and statements contained in the preamble to the ordinance codified
herein are found to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as part of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-2, passed 11-15-2016)
§ 113.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Customer Service and Privacy Protection Law.
      (1)   Adoption. The regulations of the Customer Service and Privacy
Protection Law, 220 ILCS 5/22-501 are hereby adopted by reference and made
applicable to the cable or video providers offering services within the
village's boundaries.
      (2)   Amendments. Any mandatory amendment to the Cable and Video Customer
Protection Law that becomes effective after the effective date of this section
shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to
cable or video providers offering services within the municipality's
boundaries. However, any amendment that makes its provisions option for
adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (B)   Enforcement. The village does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its
intent to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards
of the Cable and Video Protection Law.
   (C)   Penalties. The village, pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1),does
hereby declare that for any material breach of the standards and requirements
of the Cable and Video Customer Protection Law, as incorporated by reference in
this section, a cable or video provider shall be subject to monetary penalties
which shall not exceed $750 for each day of the material breach, and shall not
exceed $25,000 for each occurrence of a material breach per customer. Such
penalties shall be in addition to the penalties provided in the Law and shall
not represent the village's exclusive remedy for any material breach. All
monetary penalties shall apply on a competitively neutral basis.
      (1)   Material breach means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the Law.
      (2)   The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice
of any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least 30
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
      (3)   A material breach, for the purposes of assuming penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in division (C)(2) of this
section.
      (4)   The President and Village Board hereby delegate authority to levy
penalties to the President.
      (5)   Any decision of the President to levy penalties may be appealed to
the Village Board, which shall conduct a hearing on the alleged material breach
and penalties levied therefore within 21 days following receipt of the cable or
video provider's request for an appeal.
   (D)   Customer credits. The village hereby adopts and incorporates by
reference the schedule of customer credits for violations of the Law provided
for in the provisions of 220 ILCS 5/22-501(s). Those credits shall be applied
on the statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle following
the violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable or video
provider is responsible for proactively providing the credits and the customer
is under no obligation to request the credits.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-2, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 113.03 SERVICE ON VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS.
   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to serve on any cable or
video service provider a copy of this subchapter and all regulations pertaining
to the management and regulations of the village’s right-of-way. The ordinances
shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-2, passed 11-15-2016)
PROVIDER FEE
§ 113.15 SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
    Pursuant to the State Cable and Video Competition Act, there is hereby
imposed on any cable service or video service provider within the village a
service provider fee of 5% of the gross revenues of such cable service or video
service provider for services delivered within the village, all as defined
under the State Cable and Video Competition Act. The service provider fee
payment shall be due quarterly and payable within 45 days after the close of
the preceding calendar quarter. Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief
report prepared by a representative of the grantee showing the basis for the
computation. If mailed, the fee shall be considered paid on the date that it is
postmarked.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-1, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 113.16 AUDIT.
    The village has the authority to audit the books and records of any cable
service and video service provider operating within the village in accordance
with requirements and procedures established under the Local Government Tax
Payers Bill of Rights Act.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-1, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 113.17 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Any cable service and video service provider operating within the
corporate limits of the village shall provide the Village Clerk with evidence
of insurance or self-insurance within 30 days of request by the Village Clerk
evidencing general comprehensive public liability insurance naming the village
as an additional insured with a minimum liability limit of $1,000,000 for
personal injury or death of one person and $3,000,000 for personal injury or
death of any two or more persons in any one occurrence and $500,000 for damage
to property resulting from any one occurrence.
   (B)   Additionally, cable service and video service providers shall maintain
and show evidence of insurance or self insurance for workers’ compensation
insurance as required by state law and also comprehensive automobile liability
insurance or self insurance to the extent of not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence against liability for bodily injury, including death and to the
extent of not less than $300,000 per occurrence against liability for damage to
property naming the village an additional insured as allowed by law.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-1, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 113.18 APPLICABLE LAW.
    Cable service and video service providers operating within the village
shall fully comply with all of the requirements of the State Cable and Video
Competition Act and with the State Cable and Video Customer Protection Act and
with all other applicable laws of the state and ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 2016-11-15-1, passed 11-15-2016; Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
CHAPTER 114: ADULT USES
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Issuance of license
   
114.05   Fees
   
114.06   Inspection
   
114.07   Expiration of license
   
114.08   Suspension
   
114.09   Revocation
   
114.10   Transfer of license
   
114.11   Business records
   
114.12   Adult entertainment cabarets; restrictions
   
114.13   Video viewing booths; restrictions
   
114.14   Hours of operation
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the
community from the many types of criminal activity frequently associated with
such uses. The village recognizes that such regulation cannot in effect
prohibit such uses. This chapter has balanced the competing interest of the
community in reducing criminal activity and protecting property values versus
the protected rights of the owners, operators, employees and patrons of adult
use businesses.
(1975 Code, § 23A-101) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated means,
and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such material, or an establishment that holds
itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its
signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin
operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any
other factors showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET. A public or private establishment which:
      (1)    Features topless dancers, strippers, “go-go” dancers, lingerie or
bathing suit fashion shows;
      (2)   Not infrequently features entertainers who display “specified
anatomical areas”; or
      (3)   Features entertainers who by reason of their appearance or conduct
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged
in, explicit simulation of “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or area used for presenting
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY STORE. An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
“novelties”, lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for “specialized sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas” or an establishment that holds itself out to public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment’s premises or any other factors
showing the establishment’s primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT USE. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets and other similar uses.
   EMPLOYEE. Employees, independent contractors or any other persons who are
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals;
         (b)   Pubic region;
         (c)   Buttocks; or
         (d)   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries;
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction which is the
later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement or conviction, whichever is the later
date, if the conviction is a felony offense;
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement from the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurred within any 24-month
period; or
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  
      (1)    Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation or sexual intercourse; and
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
(1975 Code, § 23A-102) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without a
valid adult use business license issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is needed to enable the village to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult use is other than an individual, each individual who
has a 20% or greater interest in the business must sign the application for a
license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under the following
section and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if the license is
granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his
or her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he or she is 18 years
of age;
      (2)   A partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any; and
      (3)   A corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing under
the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal shareholders, and the name and address of the
registered corporate agent.
   (F)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a
name other than that of the applicant, he or she must state:
      (1)   The business’s fictitious name; and
      (2)   Submit any required registration documents.
   (G)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any specified criminal
activity as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal activity
involved, including the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   (H)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter or
similar ordinances from another village or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or similar
ordinance in another jurisdiction or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under this chapter and a
license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and
location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked
as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
   (I)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar ordinance from another city or county and if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
   (J)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises.
(1975 Code, § 23A-103)
§ 114.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed adult use business
license application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant.
      (2)   The village shall approve the issuance of a license, unless it
determines by a preponderance of the evidence any one or more of the following:
         (a)   The applicant is under 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes,
fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in
relation to any business;
         (c)   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably
necessary for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
         (d)   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to
operate an adult use business within the preceding 12 months or whose license
to operate an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding 12
months;
         (e)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal
activity defined in this chapter;
         (f)   The premises to be used for the adult use business has not been
approved by the Fire Protection District as being in compliance with applicable
laws and ordinances;
         (g)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid; or
         (h)   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of
or is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (C)   The Fire Protection District shall complete their certification that
the premises is in compliance or not in compliance with village codes within 20
days of receipt of the application by the village.
   (D)   No adult use business license shall be issued unless the premises at
which the adult use will operate is in conformance with the restrictions set
forth in the zoning ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 23A-104)
§ 114.05 FEES.
   Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license
or for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a $2,500 non-
refundable application and investigation fee.
(1975 Code, § 23A-105)
§ 114.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Fire Protection District or other village or village designated
departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult use or his or her agent or employee
violates this chapter if he or she refuses to permit such lawful inspection of
the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(1975 Code, § 23A-106)
§ 114.07 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire on January 1 after it was issued and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in §
114.03. Application for renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the
expiration date and when made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license.
(1975 Code, § 23A-107)
§ 114.08 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business premises
as authorized by this chapter; or
      (3)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult use
business premises.
   (B)   If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty
in a court of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior
to suspension of the license.
(1975 Code, § 23A-108)
§ 114.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
114.08 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12 months
or if the licensee is convicted of any specified criminal activity.
   (B)   The village shall revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing,
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of alcohol
or controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee knowingly operated the adult use business during a
period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the
licensee premises;
      (6)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state
for any taxes or past due fees; or
      (7)   A licensee has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another
commission of the offense of public indecency.
   (C)   If the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license for
one year from the date the revocation became effective. If subsequent to
revocation, the village finds that the factual basis for the revocation did not
occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction.
(1975 Code, § 23A-109)
§ 114.10 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another nor shall a
licensee operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address on the license.
(1975 Code, § 23A-110)
§ 114.11 BUSINESS RECORDS.
    All adult use businesses shall file a verified report with the village
showing the licensee’s gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the
preceding calendar year. In addition, all adult uses shall maintain and retain
for a period of two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons
employed, including independent contractors, by the licensee.
(1975 Code, § 23A-111) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
§ 114.12 ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARETS; RESTRICTIONS.
   All dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for that
purpose which is raised at least two feet from the level of the floor. No
dancing or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron.
In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any patron
and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any performer. No patron
shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer and no performer shall
solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be indirectly given
to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage.
(1975 Code, § 23A-112)
§ 114.13 VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms used
for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall have
doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas for viewing motion pictures or
other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the viewing of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment.
(1975 Code, § 23A-113)
§ 114.14 HOURS OF OPERATION.
    No adult use business shall be open prior to 2:00 p.m. or after 12:00
midnight, Monday through Saturday, and all adult use businesses shall be closed
Sunday.
(1975 Code, § 23A-114) (Ord. 2022-12-21C, passed 12-21-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   FIREARMS, FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Indecent conduct
   
130.03   Fighting
   
130.04   False alarms
   
130.05   Disturbing assemblages
   
130.06   Hunting
   
130.07   Discharge of firearms
   
130.08   Combustible refuse
   
130.09   Missiles
   
130.10   Advertising
   
130.11   Assemblages
   
130.12   Posting bills
   
130.13   Village policy on soliciting or peddling
   
130.14   Notice regulating soliciting or peddling
   
130.15   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
130.16   Deposit of grass or rubbish prohibited in public streets
   
130.17   Indecent publications
   
130.18   Scaffolds
   
130.19   Articles on windows
   
130.20   Obstructing stairways or exits
   
130.21   Covers on wells and the like
   
130.22   Animal control
   
130.22A   Prohibition on animals running at large
   
130.23   Animal noise
   
130.24   Assault and battery
   
130.25   Impersonating a village officer
   
130.26   Disturbing religious worship
   
130.27   Molesting vehicles
   
130.28   Injury to property
   
130.29   Prohibits deposit of rubbish and the like upon roadway, gutter or
sidewalk within the village limits
   
130.30   Curfews
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Raffle and poker run licenses and permits, see §
32.30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct or of
any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace. The causing or making of any
unnecessary loud noise or shouting or yelling shall be considered disorderly
conduct.
(1975 Code, § 21-108)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 INDECENT CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, offer for sale,
distribute, publish, print, exhibit or possess with intent to distribute, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
any obscene writing, picture, moving picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene, or to present or to direct an obscene play or other
performance or to perform an obscene act or otherwise present an obscene
exhibition or to advertise or otherwise promote obscene material.
   (B)   A thing shall be deemed to be obscene if the average person would find
that the work taken as a whole appeals to a prurient interest, and the work
depicts or describes patently offensive representations or descriptions of nude
persons, ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted sexual conduct, whether
actual or simulated, or patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, and lewd exhibition of the human genitals.
The work, taken as a whole, must lack serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
(1975 Code, § 21-111) (Ord. 2022-11-16A, passed 11-16-2022)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight or to commit
any assault or battery in any public place in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-112)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FALSE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread any false
alarm of fire in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-113)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-114)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any animal other
than prescribed by law, in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-115) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearm or airgun in the village;
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her duty; nor to
any citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his or her person or
property.
(1975 Code, § 21-117)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard, or to throw away any refuse of any kind in any
alley, street or other public place in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-118)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any missile on any street,
alley or other public place, and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any
glass, nails, tacks or other similar articles, on any street, sidewalk, alley
or other public place in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-120)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or articles in the
village, and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement
or notice.
(1975 Code, § 21-121) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful to collect, gather or be a member of any disorderly
crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful purpose.
(1975 Code, § 21-122) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post any bills
or advertisements on any public property without authority of the Village
Board, and it shall be unlawful to post any bill or advertisement on any
property without the written consent of the owner.
(1975 Code, § 21-123)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING OR PEDDLING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors
or peddlers shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 2022-11-16A, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 130.14 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING OR PEDDLING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors or peddlers, to any
residence, shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by
four inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows:
      "NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (B)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 2022-11-16A, passed 11-16-2022)
§ 130.15 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor or peddler upon going onto any
premises in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the
notice provided for in § 130.14 if any is attached, and be governed by the
statement contained on the notice. If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS
INVITED," then the solicitor shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 2022-11-16A, passed 11-16-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 DEPOSIT OF GRASS AND RUBBISH PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump or deposit
or cause to be dumped or deposited any grass, leaves, branches or any other
things in the roadway or gutter of any public street in the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-125)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 INDECENT PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or to circulate, pass
from one person to another or expose in any public place or anywhere in view in
a store or place frequented by the public, any immoral, indecent or obscene
publications, printed or written matter or picture or other representation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by, or where it
may come into the possession of minors, or to disclose or expose any such
material to a minor.
(1975 Code, § 21-126)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 INDECENT PUBLICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale, or to circulate, pass
from one person to another or expose in any public place or anywhere in view in
a store or place frequented by the public, any immoral, indecent or obscene
publications, printed or written matter or picture or other representation.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep any such publication, printed or written
matter, picture or other representation in any place frequented by, or where it
may come into the possession of minors, or to disclose or expose any such
material to a minor.
(1975 Code, § 21-126)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any moveable article on any window ledge, or
other place abutting on a public street, alley or other place at a height above
four feet from the ground, in such a manner that the same can be or is in
danger of falling onto any such street, sidewalk, alley or other public place.
(1975 Code, § 21-128)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisles, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building
used by two or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes
with the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit.
(1975 Code, § 21-130)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 COVERS ON WELLS AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any well, or any other similar excavation to
remain uncovered, excepting on premises secured by a fence of at least six feet
in height with all doors or entrances to such premises locked.
(1975 Code, § 21-131)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATTENDED RUN LINES. A system of tying an animal in a place by rope or
chain with a tensile strength of at least ten times the weight of the animal.
While on this run line, a person of no less than the age of 18 years of age
shall constantly be in sight of the animal and be supervising the animal.
      CHICKEN. All members of the subspecies Gallus gallus domesticus, a
domesticated fowl.
      DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Any animal, which when unmuzzled, unleashed or
unattended by its owner or a member of its owner’s family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in any apparent attitude of attack
upon the street, sidewalk or any public grounds or place within the village.
      ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six foot in height, forming
or causing a complete barrier suitable to prevent the entry of a child into the
enclosure, and suitable to confine a vicious or dangerous animal within the
enclosure. Such ENCLOSURE shall be securely closed and locked at all times. It
shall have secure sides, top and bottom and be designed to prevent the escape
of the animal contained therein, and to prevent the entry into the ENCLOSURE.
      PERMITTEE. An applicant who has been granted a permit to raise, harbor,
or keep poultry pursuant to the village code. If the applicant is a rental
tenant of the property on which the poultry are to be kept, then the owner of
the property must be a joint applicant and shall be a joint permittee equally
responsible for compliance with all laws and regulations.
      PERMITTING OFFICER. The Village President or his/her designee.
      POULTRY. Domesticated fowl, including chickens, turkeys, waterfowl, and
game birds, except doves and pigeons, which are bred for the primary purpose of
producing eggs or meat. Examples of waterfowl include domesticated fowl that
normally swim such as ducks, geese and swans.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which fits any one of the following categories
or characteristics, except that no animal shall be deemed vicious if it
attacks, bites or menaces a trespasser on the property of its owner, or harms
or menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it, or if it is a professionally
trained animal for law enforcement or guard duty purposes:
         (a)   Any animal that when unprovoked bites or attacks a person or
other animal regardless of whether it is on public or private property;
         (b)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack without provocation, or to cause injuries or to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or other animals;
         (c)   Any animal which attacks a person or other animal without overt
provocation; or
         (d)   Any animal which has been found to be a dangerous animal as
hereinafter defined, on three separate occasions.
   (B)   Vicious animals.
      (1)   The owner of a vicious animal shall pay an annual license fee of
$50 to the village, to be paid immediately upon the animal being determined to
be vicious, and then each year thereafter.
      (2)   The owner of a vicious animal shall maintain liability insurance of
at least $50,000, and said liability insurance policy shall name the village as
an additional insured and proof of said insurance shall be required for the
obtaining of the license.
      (3)   The vicious animal shall be confined to an enclosure or an attended
run line, as previously defined.
      (4)   The vicious animal shall only be allowed to leave the premises of
the owner when it is necessary to see a veterinarian. During this time, the
vicious animal shall be muzzled and under direct control of a person of at
least 18 years of age. The vicious animal shall be on a leash no longer than
three feet long with a tensile strength of no less than ten times the weight of
the animal.
      (5)   The vicious animal shall always wear a special collar identifying
it as a vicious animal, with said collar being visible at night from a distance
of at least 200 feet.
      (6)   The owner of the vicious animal shall post a sign in a prominent
place on the owner’s property stating that such property houses a vicious
animal, as defined by the Village Board, and said sign shall be visible from
the street in front of such property.
      (7)   The vicious animal shall be neutered with proof thereof being
required to obtain a license.
   (C)   Biting animals. It shall be the duty of the owner of any animal that
has bitten a person or animal to notify the County Animal Control Warden and to
keep such animal locked in an enclosure for a period of two weeks, following
the time the animal has bitten such person or animal; and to have such animal
examined by a licensed veterinarian at the commencement and termination of the
two-week period, unless the County Animal Control Warden shall direct that the
animal be treated otherwise. If such animal during the two-week period shall
show any definite signs of illness or dies, it shall be the duty of the owner
to turn the animal over to the County Animal Control Warden to determine if
rabies is present.
   (D)   Keeping of poultry.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions and regulations of the village code, the
keeping of up to 12 female poultry (hens) is allowed within village limits on
lots zoned for single-family dwellings, and according to Chapter 154 of this
code. The keeping of male poultry (roosters) is hereby prohibited except as
required by a verifiable 4H or Future Farmers of America (FFA) project. Keeping
more than 12 female poultry (hens) is allowed only pursuant to a special permit
in accordance with §
153.120 Special Use Permits.
         (a)   Permit required. No person shall raise, harbor, or keep poultry
within the village without a valid permit obtained from the Permitting Officer
under the provisions of this section.
         (b)   Application. In order to obtain or renew a permit, an applicant
shall submit a completed application in such forms as prescribed by the village
and provided by the Permitting Officer, either online or in paper form, and pay
all fees as required by this section.
         (c)   Fee. An annual license fee of $25 shall be paid to the city with
each new application and $5 for each renewal application. All permits shall
expire on March 1 of each calendar year. Applications for renewal must be filed
with the Permitting Officer on or before January 15 of each calendar year.
Applications for permit renewals will require the applicant to update all
information set forth within the application. Persons keeping poultry without a
license issued by the village shall pay a double fee and may be subject to
other sanctions as provided by law.
         (d)   Permit requirements. In addition to all other applicable
requirements of the village code, every permittee (and joint permittee) must
meet the following requirements:
            1.   All application and permit fees, as may be provided from time
to time by Board resolution, are paid in full.
            2.   All amounts owed to the city, including but not limited to
liens, fines, and judgments are paid in full, and all utility accounts with the
city are in good standing.
            3.   The tract of land to be permitted shall only contain one
single-family dwelling occupied and used as such by the permittee/joint
permittee.
            4.   Each permit is valid only for the address on the original
application form. If the permittee moves or changes addresses, then a new
application and fee will be required to seek a new permit.
            5.   Each application must include a site plan which can be
obtained from the DeWitt County Assessments Office.
            6.   If applicable, the applicant must be prepared, upon receiving
the permit, to register the property for which the permit is issued with the
Illinois Department of Agriculture and, following such registration if
applicable, provide the registration number to the village.
         (e)   Issuance of permit. If the Permitting Officer concludes as a
result of the information contained in the application that the requirements
for a permit have been met, then the Officer shall issue the permit within 30
days of the village's receipt of the application.
         (f)   Denial, suspension, revocation, non-renewal. The Permitting
Officer may deny, suspend, revoke, or decline to renew any permit issued for
any of the following grounds:
            1.   False statements on any application or other information or
report required by this section to be given by the applicant;
            2.   Failure to pay any application, penalty, reinspection or
reinstatement fee required by this section or Village Board resolution;
            3.   Failure to correct deficiencies noted in notices of violation
in the time specified in the notice. The permittee shall be given a minimum of
ten days to resolve deficiencies from the date of notice;
            4.   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved
mitigation/remediation plan by the Permitting Officer; or
            5.   Failure to comply with any provision of this section of the
village code.
         (g)   Notification. A decision to revoke, suspend, deny, or not renew
a permit shall be in writing, delivered by ordinary mail or in person to the
address indicated on the application. The notification shall specify the
reasons for the action.
         (h)   Effect of denial or revocation. When an application for a permit
is denied, or when a permit is revoked, the applicant may not re-apply for a
new permit for a period of one year from the date of the denial or revocation.
         (i)   Uses prohibited. Poultry breeding, fertilizer production, bird
fighting, and butchering of poultry kept under this section are hereby
prohibited, except butchering of a permittee's own poultry for personal
consumption may be allowed provided such butchering is done out of public view
on the permittee's own property.
         (j)   Poultry at large. The permittee shall not allow his or her
poultry to roam outside of the fence-enclosed rear yard (or corner side yard)
on the lot for which the permit was granted. No dog or cat or other
domesticated animal which kills a poultry off the permitted tract of land will,
because of the attack on the poultry, be considered a dangerous or vicious
animal for the purposes of the village's other animal control provisions.
   (E)   Violation claim. 
      (1)   Any village resident may claim a violation of any portion of this
section by filling out an affidavit of complaint witnessed by any Village
Trustee, and by filing said complaint with the Village Clerk. On filing of said
complaint, the Village Clerk shall immediately notify the Village President or
the village police officer, or the County Animal Control Warden, and said
official shall investigate the complaint to determine whether or not a
violation has been committed. Following the complaint and investigation as
stated, the official who received notice from the Village Clerk of the
complaint, and who investigated the basis of the complaint, shall have the sole
authority to determine whether or not a person or animal is in violation of
this section, and to take such action against such person or animal as is
specifically described above. If within three days there is no claim to
ownership of an animal that is in violation of this section, that animal shall
be removed from the village and humanely destroyed.
      (2)   If, following a complaint and investigation, the officer involved
finds that there is no violation, the complaining witness can file a written
request with the Village Board of Trustees requesting that action be taken to
abate the nuisance alleged by the complaining witness. The Board shall consider
said complaint at its very next meeting, and if the Board, by majority vote,
decides that the animal is a public nuisance and dangerous to the health and
safety of the residents of the village, regardless of whether the animal is in
violation of any other specific portion of this section, then the Village
President shall appoint a commission of four village residents with at least
one of them being a Village Trustee, to further investigate the matter and to
make recommendations to the full Board of what further control or regulation is
necessary for the protection of the village residents in this particular
instance. Said recommendation shall be made to the Village Board within 30 days
of the appointment of the commission.
(1975 Code, § 21-133) (Ord. 2023-10-25A, passed 10-25-2023) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22A PROHIBITION ON ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall permit or cause any dog or cat owned by him or her to
run at large within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      OWNER. A person having a right or ownership in a dog or cat or who keeps
or harbors a dog or cat, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its
custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or cat to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
      RUNNING AT LARGE. A dog or cat off or outside the premises of its owner,
unless it is controlled as follows:
      (1)   By a line or leash not more than eight feet in length, provided
that the line or leash is held by a competent person;
      (2)   The dog or cat is confined within a vehicle being driven, parked,
or stopped; or
      (3)   The dog or cat is not more than 50 feet from a competent person;
provided that the dog or cat is not annoying any person, trespassing on private
property or in public area where dogs or cats are forbidden.
(Ord. 2024-7-31, passed 7-31-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 ANIMAL NOISE.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog or other animal which by barking,
howling, bawling or by other noises shall disturb the peace and quiet of any
family, individual or neighborhood.
(1975 Code, § 21-134)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful to commit either an assault or battery upon the person
of another.
(1975 Code, § 21-135)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.25 IMPERSONATING A VILLAGE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to falsely represent himself or herself to
be an officer of this village, or without being duly authorized by the village
to exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of a
village officer.
(1975 Code, § 21-136) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.26 DISTURBING RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to, within the limits of the village,
disquiet or disturb any congregation or assembly met for any lawful purpose,
religious or otherwise, by making a noise, or by any rude, indecent behavior or
profane discourse or disorderly conduct, within their place of meeting, or so
near the same as to disturb the order or solemnity of the meeting.
(1975 Code, § 21-137) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.27 MOLESTING VEHICLES.
   No person shall climb upon or into any automobile, wagon, carriage, sleigh
or other vehicle while the same may be in motion or attach his or her sled or
cart to any such vehicle.
(1975 Code, § 21-138)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.28 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface,
injure or destroy any property of the state, county or village or any private
property.
(1975 Code, § 21-139)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.29 PROHIBITS DEPOSIT OF RUBBISH AND THE LIKE UPON ROADWAY, GUTTER OR
SIDEWALK WITHIN THE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump or deposit
or cause to be dumped or deposited any rubbish, paper, tin cans, bottles or any
other material or refuse upon or in the public streets, gutters or sidewalks
within the village limits of the village.
(1975 Code, § 21-140) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.30 CURFEWS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person less than 18 years of age to be present at
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the
following times:
      (1)   Between 10:30 p.m. Friday and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 10:30 p.m. Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:00 p.m. Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on
the following day.
   (B)   A citation for violation of division (A) of this section may be issued
by a police officer only if the officer reasonably believes that a violation
has occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in this division (B) apply. It
is a defense to a violation under this section that the person engaged in the
prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian, or another
responsible companion at least 21 years of age approved by a parent or legal
guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in any employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or another similar entity
that takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had the disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Any parent or guardian allowing such child under the age of 18 years
of age to be on the streets after said hours, without a valid defense as
enumerated in division (B) of this section, may be fined as provided by §
130.99.
(1975 Code, § 21-141) (Ord. 2022-11-16A, passed 11-16-2022) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
130.22(B)(3) shall be grounds for removal of the vicious animal from the owner
thereof, with said animal being immediately destroyed at the owner’s expense by
the County Animal Control Warden. Removal of animals for violation as described
above shall be performed by the village police officer under the direct
supervision of the County Animal Warden. Any person found guilty of violating
the vicious and dangerous animal requirements shall be subject to a fine not
less than $100, nor more than $750, for each violation. Each day that a
violation shall occur shall be deemed a separate offense and violation.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of §
130.22A is $100 per offense. In addition, if the dog or cat is impounded by the
County Animal Control, the owner shall pay any fees required by the county as a
condition of release of the dog or cat.
(1975 Code, § 21-133) (Ord. 2019-4-18A, passed 4-18-2019; Ord. 2022-11-16A,
passed 11-16-2022; Ord. 2024-7-31, passed 7-31-2024)
CHAPTER 131: FIREARMS, FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
131.01   Firearms
   
131.02   Fireworks
   
131.03   Nitro-glycerine and TNT
   
131.04   Storage rules
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Miscellaneous offenses, see
Chapter 130
§ 131.01 FIREARMS.
   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, pistol, fowling piece or other
firearm within the corporate limits of the village.
(1975 Code, § 29-101) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell, store, discharge or set off any
fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the village, except in
connection with public exhibitions as is herein provided.
   (B)   No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be given
unless a permit therefor is first secured from the President and Board. All
such public display shall be under the supervision of a competent person, and
shall be supervised by the Chief of the Fire Department or some member of the
Fire Department assigned to this duty by him or her.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell,
offer for sale or keep for the purpose of selling any fireworks in the village
at any time.
(1975 Code, § 29-102) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 NITRO-GLYCERINE AND TNT.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the village in any quantities, excepting for medicinal
or laboratory purposes and for such purposes no more than one-quarter ounce
shall be stored in any one building or premises.
(1975 Code, § 29-103) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 STORAGE RULES.
   All explosives must be stored or kept in accordance with the rules of the
State Fire Marshal, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 29-104) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 29-105)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN AREAS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Incorporated and reference materials
   
150.003   Illustrations adopted by reference
   
150.004   Electric Code requirements
   
150.005   Unlicensed motor vehicles
   
150.006   Minimum road width
   
150.007   Water distribution pipe size
   
150.008   Minimum size and slope of sewer mains
Permits
   
150.020   Required permits
   
150.021   Applications
   
150.022   Plans
   
150.023   Floodplain requirement
   
150.024   Occupancy of new sites
   
150.025   Immobilization
   
150.026   Deletion of sites
Requirements of the Manufactured Home Community
   
150.040   Layout of the manufactured home community
   
150.041   Support systems
   
150.042   Street and parking
   
150.043   Water
   
150.044   Sewage
   
150.045   Electrical
   
150.046   Fuel supply
   
150.047   Fire safety
   
150.048   Lighting
   
150.049   Pools and beaches
   
150.050   Solid and landscape waste
   
150.051   Manufactured home community appearance
   
150.052   Identification of sites
   
150.053   Vector control
   
150.054   Fences
   
150.055   Inspection doors
   
150.056   Recreational vehicles
   
150.057   Animal control
   
150.058   Vacant sites
   
150.059   Duplex units
Additional Responsibilities of the Licensee
   
150.070   Required documents
   
150.071   Manufactured home community rules
   
150.072   Register
   
150.073   Inspections by manufactured home community management
Administrative Action by the Zoning Officer
   
150.085   Variance procedures
   
150.086   Enforcement action
   
150.087   Common operation
   
150.088   Existing communities
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in the Mobile Home Park Act, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Mobile Home Park Act (210 ILCS 115).
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   COMMUNITY PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. A system for the provision to the
public of piped water for human consumption, if the system has at least 15
service connections or serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at
least 60 days per year. This includes any collection, treatment, storage and
distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system and used
primarily in connection with such system, and any collection or pretreatment
storage facilities not under such control which are used in connection with
such system.
   LICENSE. A certificate issued by the Zoning Officer allowing a person to
operate and maintain a manufactured home community under the provisions of the
Act and this chapter.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a license or permit has been issued under this
chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
while in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet
or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 square feet or more, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein. Any home defined in the Act as a MOBILE HOME is
defined as a MANUFACTURED HOME for the purposes of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY. A tract of land or two or more contiguous
tracts of land that contains sites with the necessary utilities for five or
more independent manufactured homes for permanent habitation either free of
charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure,
vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of
such manufactured home community. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of
land shall not preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a MOBILE
HOME COMMUNITY if they are maintained and operated jointly. Neither an
immobilized manufactured home nor a motorized recreational vehicle shall be
construed as being part of a MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY. Any community defined
in the Act as a MOBILE HOME PARK is defined as a MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY
for the purposes of this chapter.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by the Zoning Officer permitting the
construction, alteration or the reduction in number of sites of a manufactured
home community under the provisions of the Act and this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, persons doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the State of Illinois, or any political subdivision or department
thereof, or any other entity.
   RESIDENT. Any person who occupies a manufactured home site for dwelling
purposes.
   SERVICE EQUIPMENT. The necessary electrical equipment, usually consisting of
circuit breaker, or switch and fuses, and meter located near the point of
entrance of supply conductors to the home and intended to constitute the main
control and means of cutoff of the electrical supply.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area that would be inundated by the base flood
and shown as such on a regulatory floodplain map (published by the State
Department of Natural Resources,  Division of Water Resources), a flood
insurance map or a flood hazard boundary map, both published by the Federal
Insurance Administration or the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(1975 Code, § 35-10) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.002 INCORPORATED AND REFERENCE MATERIALS.
   The following standards of nationally recognized organization and federal
and state regulations are incorporated or referenced in this chapter.
   (A)   The following materials are incorporated by reference and include no
later amendments or editions:
      (1)   Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois, 2020 Edition published by: Illinois Society of Professional
Engineers; 1304 South Lowell Avenue, Springfield, Illinois 62704; referenced in
§
150.043;
      (2)   Flood insurance rate map and flood hazard boundary map published
by: Federal Insurance Administration Region V; 300 Wacker Drive, 24th Floor
Chicago, Illinois 60606; referenced in §
150.023;
      (3)   National Electrical Code, 2023 Edition (NFPA 70-23) published by:
National Fire Protection Association Batterymarch Park; Quincy, Massachusetts
02269; referenced in §§
150.004 and
150.045;
      (4)   Installation of Oil Burning Equipment, 2020 Edition (NFPA 31-20)
published by: National Fire Protection Association Batterymarch Park; Quincy,
Massachusetts 02269; referenced in §
150.046;
      (5)   National Fuel Gas Code, 2021 Edition (NFPA 54-21) published by:
National Fire Protection Association Batterymarch Park; Quincy, Massachusetts
02269; referenced in §§
150.026 and
150.046;
      (6)   Liquified Petroleum Gas Code, 2020 Edition (NFPA 58-20) published
by: National Fire Protection Association Batterymarch Park Quincy,
Massachusetts 02269; referenced in §
150.046;
      (7)   American Society of Testing and Materials, Standard Method of Test
for Surface Burning Characteristics of Building Materials, Standard E84-22,
published by: American Society of Testing and Materials; 1916 Race Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103; referenced in §
150.047; and
      (8)   Pipeline Safety Regulations, 49 C.F.R. Part 192 United States
Department of Transportation Office of Pipeline Safety; 400 7th Street S.W.
Washington DC 20590; referenced in §
150.046.
   (B)   The following materials are referenced in this chapter:
      (1)   State statutes:
         (a)   Illinois Architectural Practice Act of 1989 (225 ILCS 305);
referenced in §
150.022;
         (b)   Illinois Professional Engineering Practice Act of 1989 (225 ILCS
325); referenced in §
150.022;
         (c)   Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/4-203); referenced in §§
150.005 and
150.051;
         (d)   Mobile Home Landlord and Tenant Rights Act (765 ILCS 745);
referenced in §
150.070;
         (e)   Abandoned Mobile Home Act (210 ILCS 117); referenced in §
150.051;
         (f)   Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act (225 ILCS 225); referenced
in §
150.044;
         (g)   Smoke Detector Act (425 ILCS 60); referenced in §
150.071;
         (h)   Illinois Plumbing License Law (225 ILCS 320); referenced in §§
150.043 and
150.044;
         (i)   Swimming Facility Act (210 ILCS 125); referenced in §§
150.022 and
150.049;
         (j)   Illinois Mobile Home Tie-Down Act (210 ILCS 120); referenced in
§
150.070;
         (k)   Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-40-3); referenced in §
150.005;
         (l)   Counties Code (55 ILCS 5/5-1092); referenced in §
150.005; and
         (m)   Township Code (60 ILCS 1/30-130); referenced in §
150.005.
      (2)   Department of Public Health regulations:
         (a)   Illinois Swimming Facility Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 820);
referenced in §
150.049;
         (b)   Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 890) Referenced in §§
150.004,
150.043,
150.044;
         (c)   Private Sewage Disposal Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 905); referenced
in §
150.044;
         (d)   Drinking Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900); referenced
in §
150.043;
         (e)   Illinois Water Well Construction Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 920);
referenced in §
150.043;
         (f)   Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code
925); referenced in §
150.043;
         (g)   Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 930);
referenced in §
150.043;
         (h)   Public Area Sanitary Practice Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 895);
referenced in §
150.043;
         (i)   Manufactured Home Installation Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870);
referenced in §
150.056; and
         (j)   Rules for Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings (77
Ill. Adm. Code 100); referenced in §
150.086.
      (3)   Illinois Pollution Control Board regulations:
         (a)   Public Water Ways (35 Ill. Adm. Code, Ch. I, Subtitle F);
referenced in §
150.043;
         (b)   Waste Disposal (35 Ill. Adm. Code, Ch. I, Subtitle G);
referenced in §
150.044; and
         (c)   Solid Waste and Special Waste Hauling (35 Ill. Adm. Code, Ch. I,
Subtitle G, Subchapter i.); referenced in §
150.050.
      (4)   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency regulations; Illinois
Recommendation Standards for Sewage Works (35 Ill. Adm. Code Part 370);
referenced in §
150.044.
      (5)   Material of other state agencies:
         (a)   Regulatory Flood Plain Map published by: Illinois Department of
Natural Resources Division of Water Resources 310 South Michigan, Room; 1606
Chicago, Illinois 60604; referenced in §
150.023; and
         (b)   Statewide Permit Number 6, issued September 15, 1993, modified
September 25, 2002 by: Illinois Department of Transportation Division
Resources; 2300 South Dirksen Parkway, Springfield, IL 62764; referenced in §
150.023.
(1975 Code, § 35-20) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.003 ILLUSTRATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The illustrations attached to the ordinance codified herein are adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1975 Code, § 35-Ill) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.004 ELECTRIC CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   The explanation of the 2023 National Electrical Code Requirements for
Manufactured Home Communities is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as fully as if set out at length herein.
(1975 Code, § 35-App B) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.005 UNLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Section 860.310(d) of the Manufactured Home Community Code prohibits
unlicensed vehicles in manufactured home communities. This includes cars,
trucks, motorcycles and trailers. While it is the manufactured home community
owner’s responsibility to assure compliance with this requirement, the
manufactured home community’s owner may have legal difficulties in getting an
unlicensed vehicle either licensed or removed within the time period allotted
by the Zoning Officer (usually 30 days).
   (B)   The Zoning Officer recognizes this problem and encourages an
investigation into the following possibilities.
      (1)   The rules of the particular manufactured home community should
prohibit unlicensed vehicles from being located in the manufactured home
community and contain language that allows the manufactured home community
owner to have unlicensed vehicles towed at the owner’s expense after seven
days' written notice is provided. The resident should sign an acknowledgment
and agreement to the rules.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 1988, the village has the authority to adopt
an ordinance to permit it to tow inoperable motor vehicles and their parts
after seven days' written notification to the owner. The language describing
this authority is contained in the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-40-3).
This pertains only to inoperable vehicles but includes those on public and
private property.
      (3)   Section 4-203 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/4-203)
contains provisions that allows a manufactured home community owner to
immediately tow an unlicensed vehicle if the owner has a sign posted as
specified in the State Vehicle Code.
      (4)   The American Lung Association has a Vehicle Donation Program. For
more information contact the American Lung Association Vehicle Donation
Program, #1 Christmas Seal Drive, P.O. Box 2576, Springfield, IL 62708-2576, or
call 1-800-583-4425.
      (5)   The National Kidney Foundation of Illinois, Inc. has a car donation
program. Call 1-800-488-CARS for details.
(1975 Code, § 35-App C) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.006 MINIMUM ROAD WIDTH.
 
Minimum Road Width (in Feet)
                      One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
No parking on streets 18              24
Parking on streets    24              30
Parking on both sides 30              36
 
(1975 Code, § 35-Table A) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.007 WATER DISTRIBUTION PIPE SIZE.
 
Inside Diameter of Main (in Maximum Number of       Maximum Length of Main (in
Inches)                     Manufactured Home Sites Feet)
                            Connected
2                           20                      600
3                           60                      1,800
4                           120                     3,600
6                           400                     12,000
Note: if local requirements exceed the above sizes, the local standards must
be met.
 
(1975 Code, § 35-Table B) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.008 MINIMUM SIZE AND SLOPE OF SEWER MAINS.
 
Number of Sites Sewer Inside Diameter (Inches) Minimum Slope
1 to 125        6                              0.75%
More than 125   8                              0.40%
 
(1975 Code, § 35-Table C) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
PERMITS
§ 150.020 REQUIRED PERMITS.
   Section 4 of the Act specifies the information required to obtain a permit
for the construction of a new manufactured home community. Section 4.2 of the
Act contains information required to obtain a permit for the alteration of an
existing manufactured home community. Permits shall expire three years from the
date of issuance. One three-year extension may be granted upon written request.
Section 4.3 of the Act contains information required for a permit to reduce
sites in an existing manufactured home community. Alterations to an existing
manufactured home site or community must be performed in accordance with the
Act and this chapter. A permit is not required for routine maintenance and
repairs.
(1975 Code, § 35-101) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.021 APPLICATIONS.
   All permit applications shall be submitted to the Zoning Officer on a form
furnished by the Zoning Officer. The application shall indicate the number and
identification of existing sites, new sites to be constructed, licensed sites
to be altered or eliminated and the new total number of proposed licensed
sites.
(1975 Code, § 35-102) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.022 PLANS.
   (A)   Section 4(d) of the Act specifies that, for a new manufactured home
community, plans must be prepared and sealed by an architect licensed under the
authority of the State Architectural Practice Act of 1989 or an engineer
licensed under the authority of the State Professional Engineering Act. The
plans shall be drawn to scale. Two copies of the plans shall be submitted to
the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   The plans and application material shall contain, at a minimum, an
overall manufactured home community plan and a typical site plan as follows:
      (1)   The overall manufactured home community plan shall include the
following details for all proposed construction:
         (a)   The location and dimension of each proposed site;
         (b)   The location, width, type of surface material and traffic flow
of all streets;
         (c)   The locations of all sidewalks and parking areas;
         (d)   The existing and proposed contours of the area, including an
indication of any area in a floodplain and drainage away from the homes;
         (e)   The locations, types, sizes, and identification numbers of all
water pipes; details of any private or semi-private water sources, sufficient
to indicate compliance, and if the manufactured home community is served by a
community public water supply system, the name of the system;
         (f)   The locations, types, sizes and identification numbers of all
sewage pipes, details of all private sewage disposal systems sufficient to
indicate compliance, and if the manufactured home community is served by a
public sewer system, the name of the system;
         (g)   The locations, types and sizes of all electrical conductors and
equipment;
         (h)   The type, sizes, heights and locations of all proposed
manufactured home community lighting;
         (i)   The sizes, locations and types of all fuel pipes; the location
and sizes of fuel storage tanks;
         (j)   The locations of all recreational equipment, beaches, swimming
pools, parks and community buildings (swimming pools and bathing beaches are
subject to a separate construction permit as required by the Swimming Facility
Act.);
         (k)   The general locations of all existing manufactured home sites
and a description of how proposed utility extensions for new sites will be
connected;
         (l)   The types, sizes and locations of all garbage containers and the
frequency of garbage collection;
         (m)   The types, sizes and location of any storm drainage pipes;
         (n)   The locations of fire hydrants and holding ponds and the name of
the fire department that serves the manufactured home community; and
         (o)   The location of all easements.
      (2)   The typical manufactured home site plan shall include the
following:
         (a)   Size, type and location of the foundation system for the home;
         (b)   Details and location of sewer, water and gas piping, showing the
height of the risers, the distance between them, and any valves;
         (c)   For private sewage disposal systems, detailed drawings of the
proposed system showing the distance between components of the system and
potable water systems or bodies of water, soil characteristics, depth of ground
water table, and size of system components (when a permit for construction of a
private sewage disposal system has been obtained or is pending from a unit of
local government, a copy of the permit or permit application shall be
submitted); and
         (d)   Types, locations and ratings of electrical service equipment and
conductors with indication of the method of grounding.
(1975 Code, § 35-103) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.023 FLOODPLAIN REQUIREMENT.
   Prior to the issuance of a construction permit, the permit applicant shall
submit with the application a completed Special Flood Hazard Area Request Form
provided by the Zoning Officer. If the site is within a special flood hazard
area, the applicant shall forward the plans for the project to the State
Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water Resources. No project to be
located in a special flood hazard area shall be issued a permit without a copy
of a statement from the Division of Water Resources that the construction
complies with the requirements of Executive Order 79-4, effective May 31, 1979.
Construction of items such as water wells, septic tanks, underground utilities,
light poles, pavilions, playground equipments, sidewalks and driveways as
specified in Statewide Permit Number 6, issued by the Division of Water
Resources, September 15, 1993, are exempt from the requirements of this
section.
(1975 Code, § 35-130) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.024 OCCUPANCY OF NEW SITES.
   No manufactured home shall be placed on a site that has not been licensed by
the Zoning Officer. Upon the completion of the construction of new sites, the
Zoning Officer shall be contacted to arrange for an inspection. After approval
is granted by the inspector, the fee for the license for the new site(s) shall
be submitted before the new site(s) shall be licensed or occupied.
(1975 Code, § 35-140) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.025 IMMOBILIZATION.
   (A)   Sites with immobilized manufactured homes are exempt from licensure by
the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   In order for a home to be considered immobilized, the following
conditions must be met:
      (1)   The homes shall be provided with individual utilities as defined in
§ 2.8 of the Act; and
      (2)   The wheels, tongue and hitch shall be removed and the home shall be
supported by a continuous perimeter foundation of material such as concrete,
mortared concrete block or mortared brick which extends below the established
frost depth. The home shall be secured in accordance with the Manufactured Home
Quality Assurance Act and Manufactured Home Installation Code.
(1975 Code, § 35-150) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.026 DELETION OF SITES.
   (A)   Section 4.3 of the Act specifies the requirements that must be
followed to reduce the number of licensed sites.
   (B)   In addition, the following conditions shall be met.
      (1)   The utilities shall be disconnected as follows:
         (a)   The water service shall be shut off and capped below the frost
depth and the riser shall be removed;
         (b)   The sewer pipe shall be cut below the ground level and sealed to
prevent sewer gas from escaping;
         (c)   The electrical supply to the site shall be disconnected and the
service equipment shall be removed;
         (d)   Any natural gas to the site shall be disconnected below grade
and sealed in accordance with the National Fuel Gas Code; and
         (e)   Any propane tanks and the piping thereto shall be removed.
      (2)   The home shall be removed and the site shall be cleared of any
debris or abandoned equipment.
      (3)   The deletion shall not commence until an application for a permit
to alter has been submitted and written approval has been issued by the Zoning
Officer.
      (4)   Upon completion of the deletion, the Zoning Officer shall be
contacted to determine compliance with the requirement of this section.
      (5)   Upon approval, the next year’s license shall reflect the new number
of sites. If the reduction results in fewer than five licensed sites, the
manufactured home community is no longer subject to licensure and the existing
license shall automatically become void upon approval of the reduction.
(1975 Code, § 35-160) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
REQUIREMENTS OF THE MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY
§ 150.040 LAYOUT OF THE MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY.
   (A)   All areas of the manufactured home community shall be drained to
prevent ponding of water. If necessary, a storm drainage system shall be
installed.
   (B)   Section 9.3 of the Act specifies the minimum square footage of each
site and the location of the home on the site. (See §
150.003, Illustrations A and B.) There shall be a minimum street frontage of 25
linear feet for each site.
   (C)   Manufactured homes located on sites constructed prior to July 1, 1998
shall be at least five feet from the property line of the manufactured home
community and ten feet from any public street, alley or building. There shall
be a minimum separation of ten feet from the side of a manufactured home to
another manufactured home and a minimum of five feet from the end of a
manufactured home to another manufactured home.
   (D)   Manufactured homes located on sites constructed after July 1, 1998
shall be located at least five feet from the manufactured home community
property line, ten feet from public or private streets, alleys, buildings or
other manufactured homes, and shall not extend over a sidewalk.
   (E)   All portions of sheds, carports, garages, porches and similar
structures constructed after July 1, 1998 shall be at least three feet from the
manufactured home community property line, five feet from any other structure
on adjacent sites, and ten feet from all streets. For corner sites, sheds shall
be at least three feet from all streets. Existing portions of sheds, carports,
garages, porches and similar structures may be replaced at the same location
without complying with the requirements of this division (E).
   (F)   When questions arise concerning the property lines of the manufactured
home community, the licensee shall be responsible for identifying the legal
location.
(1975 Code, § 35-200) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.041 SUPPORT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Sites on which homes are installed prior to July 1, 1998 shall have a
support system as required by the Mobile Home Park Act in effect at the time of
installation.
   (B)   Homes installed after July 1, 1998 shall be installed on a level
support system capable of supporting the design load of the home. The support
system shall consist of a minimum three and one- half inches thick concrete
pad, runners or pier. The support system shall be placed on undisturbed soil or
compacted material. Alternative equivalent systems may be submitted for
approval by the Zoning Officer. Pads shall be the approximate dimensions of the
home. Runners shall be either parallel or perpendicular to the length of the
home. Runners that are parallel with the length of the home shall be a minimum
of 20 inches wide, extend the approximate length of the home and be located so
that blocking rests entirely on the runners. Runners that are perpendicular to
the length of the home shall be a minimum of 12 inches wide, extend the
approximate width of the home and be spaced at a maximum eight-foot intervals
center to center along the length of the home. Pier blocks shall bear entirely
on the pier support system. The manufactured home community owner is
responsible for determining that the support system is adequate for the
specific soil conditions. A copy of manufactured home installation guidelines
is available from the Zoning Officer.
   (C)   The support system can extend below the frost depth to prevent the
home from shifting as a result of the freezing and thawing of the soil. The
entire support system must be installed at the same approximate depth to
prevent damage to the home from frost heave.
   (D)   The ground and impervious surfaces surrounding the perimeter of the
home shall be sloped to direct all surface water away from the home for sites
constructed after July 1, 1998.
(1975 Code, § 35-210) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.042 STREET AND PARKING.
   (A)   All streets shall be maintained reasonably free of potholes, snow and
dust. Streets constructed after July 1, 1998 shall be constructed of rock and
oil, asphalt or concrete.
   (B)   The minimum road width shall comply with §
150.007.
   (C)   At least two parking spaces shall be provided for each site
constructed after July 1, 1998. At least one space shall be available for all
other sites. Parking spaces on streets must be a minimum of 18 feet in length.
(1975 Code, § 35-220) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.043 WATER.
   (A)   Potable water shall be provided at each site.
      (1)   The source of the water shall be either a community public water
supply system regulated by the State Environmental Protection Agency (35 Ill.
Adm. Code, Subtitle F) or a system regulated by the Zoning Officer.
      (2)   Systems regulated by the Zoning Officer shall comply with one of
the following.
         (a)   The construction and water quality requirements of the Drinking
Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900) shall be met.
         (b)   Water wells shall be located and constructed in accordance with
the Illinois Water Well Construction Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 925).
         (c)   Surface water supply systems shall be constructed and operated
in accordance with the Surface Source Water Treatment Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code
930).
   (B)   The water distribution system shall be subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   If the system is connected to a community public water supply
system and has one main water meter, the distribution system beyond the main
meter shall be subject to the requirements of the Drinking Water Systems Code
and the State Plumbing Code and shall be installed and maintained by a licensed
state plumber in accordance with the State Plumbing License Law.
      (2)   If the system is connected to a community public water supply
system and the residents are billed by the manufactured home community owner
for the water based on the readings from the meter at each site, the
manufactured home community owner is considered a water supplier and is subject
to the requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency. The
distribution system up to the individual service line to each home shall be
subject to the requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   If the park is served by its own community public water supply, or
the manufactured home community is connected to a community public water supply
without a main meter for the manufactured home community, the distribution
system up to the individual service line to each home shall be subject to the
requirements of the State Environments Protection Agency.
   (C)   Water distribution systems not subject to the requirements of the
State Environmental Protection Agency shall be designed and constructed in
compliance with the requirements of the Drinking Water Systems Code and the
State Plumbing Code and shall be installed and maintained by a licensed
Illinois plumber in accordance with the State License Law.
      (1)   The following additional requirements shall be met for all
distribution systems:
         (a)   The distribution system shall supply water to each site at a
minimum pressure of 20 pounds per square inch during periods of peak usage. A
pressure-reducing valve shall be installed if the pressure exceeds 80 pounds
per square inch. The distribution pipe shall be looped, whenever possible, and
dead end mains shall be equipped with flush hydrants or equivalent.
         (b)   All water lines under the home shall be protected from freezing.
The manufactured home community rules (§
150.071) shall address the resident’s responsibility concerning protection of
water lines from freezing. If heat tapes are used, they must be listed for use
for manufactured homes and installed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions.
      (2)   The following requirements shall be met for distribution systems
constructed after July 1, 1998:
         (a)   The water main distribution pipe shall be sized in accordance
with Table B and be of approved material listed in the Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, 1996 Edition.
         (b)   Water mains must include flush hydrants or equivalent at a
minimum of every 600 feet and at dead ends of piping. Flushing hydrants shall
be sized to provide flows that will give a mean velocity of at least two and
one-half feet per second in the distribution piping being flushed.
         (c)   Each site shall be served with a separate minimum three-fourths
inch inside diameter service connection.
         (d)   All water risers shall be at least three-fourths inch inside
diameter, terminate at least four inches above the finished grade, and be
separated at least ten feet horizontally from the sewer riser.
         (e)   An approved shut-off valve shall be provided near the street or
site line for installations after July 1, 1998.
   (D)   The manufactured home community owner shall be responsible for
sampling of the water supply systems as required by the Zoning Officer. Routine
water sampling will not be required by the Zoning Officer for water supplies
regulated by the State Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   If the water distribution system is not regulated by the State
Protection Agency, the following requirements shall be met. When a break occurs
in the manufactured home community’s distribution system or the pressure in the
water distribution system is below the minimum 20 pounds per square inch, the
Zoning Officer shall be notified by telephone within 24 hours or the next
business day. The affected residents shall be notified immediately by the
manufactured home community management of the need to boil their water for
three minutes before drinking it. A sign shall be posted at the entrance(s) of
the manufactured home community. The Zoning Officer shall advise the
manufactured home community when the boil order can be lifted.
   (F)   All water leaks in the water distribution system, including those
under the manufactured home, shall be repaired within 72 hours after
notification from a resident or the Zoning Officer.
   (G)   Notification of planned water supply interruptions for periods greater
than one hour shall be provided by the manufactured home community management
to the residents affected by the interruption.
(1975 Code, § 35-230) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.044 SEWAGE.
   (A)   All sewage generated within a manufactured home community shall
discharge into an approved sewage disposal system.
      (1)   A sewage disposal system designed to discharge below ground, or to
the ground surface with a flow of less than 1,500 gallons per day, shall be
regulated by the Zoning Officer and must meet the requirements of the Private
Sewage Disposal Code.
      (2)   A sewage disposal system or group of systems installed after July
1, 1998 designed to discharge 1,500 or more gallons per day to the ground
surface shall meet the requirements of the Illinois Pollution Control Board (35
Ill. Adm. Code 309.102(a) and (b)).
   (B)   A sewage collection system shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   A minimum four-inch inside diameter sewer riser extending at least
four inches above the finished grade level shall be provided at each site. The
material for the building drain and sewer riser must be approved building
drainage pipe material as specified in § 35, Table A of the State Plumbing Code
and shall be installed by a state licensed plumber. The connection between the
riser and the manufactured home sewer pipe shall be water-tight and odor-tight.
A water-tight and odor-tight cap or plug shall be installed on all sewer risers
that are not in use. Provisions shall be included to allow for vertical
movement due to frost heave is the home is not supported below the frost depth.
(See §
150.003, Illustration D.)
      (2)   The building sewer piping must be approved building sewer material
as specified in § 890, Table A of the State Plumbing Code and must meet the
requirements of §
150.008.
      (3)   The construction and installation of the sewer mains and lift
station must meet the requirements of the State Environmental Protection Agency
(35 Ill. Adm. Code, Illinois Recommended Standards for Sewage Works) for
construction after July 1, 1998. Manholes shall be provided at every change in
direction or grade of every main sewer line, at the upper end of every main
sewer line, at every junction of two or more branch sewers, and at intervals of
not more than 400 feet. Cleanouts extending to grade level may be used instead
of manholes on sewer lines less than eight inches in diameter and shall be at
intervals of not more than 100 feet.
   (C)   Malfunctioning sewage disposal systems shall be repaired and
maintained in compliance with the requirements specified in division (A) above.
Within 48 hours after notification from a resident or the Zoning Officer,
untreated sewage on the ground as a result of a malfunction shall be removed to
the extent possible and the contaminated ground surface shall be covered with
lime or similar material.
(1975 Code, § 35-240) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.045 ELECTRICAL.
   (A)   New installations.
      (1)   All electrical distribution systems constructed or replaced after
July 1, 1998 shall be designed and constructed to conform to the requirements
of the National Electrical Code, 1996 Edition. Article 550C of the National
Electrical Code contains specific requirements for manufactured home
communities. (See § 150.004.)
      (2)   For homes installed after July 1,1998, the manufactured home
community licensee shall be responsible for providing electrical service
equipment at least equivalent to the amperage capacity of the home which it
serves.
   (B)   Existing installations. The following minimum requirements shall apply
to electrical systems installed prior to July 1, 1998.
      (1)   The electrical distribution system to the manufactured home sites
shall be single phase, 120/240 volts nominal.
      (2)   The type, size, installation and location of all conductors shall
comply with their approved use as indicated in the edition of the National
Electrical Code in effect at the time of construction.
      (3)   The service equipment shall not be attached to the home, located
under the home or located anywhere that is not readily accessible. Obstructions
such as bushes shall not be located within three feet of the front of the
service equipment.
      (4)   All electrical equipment installed outdoors shall be the
weatherproof type. Equipment located under the home shall be protected from the
weather.
      (5)   The service equipment and any other electrical devices shall be 12
inches above grade and secured to prevent any movement.
      (6)   The manufactured home feeder conductor shall be either a cord which
meets the requirements of the home or a permanently installed feeder as
specified by the National Electrical Code in effect at the time of
installation.
      (7)   All circuits at the service equipment shall be protected by over-
current protection as required by the National Electrical Code in effect at the
time of installation.
      (8)   Overhead conductors shall provide an 18-foot vertical clearance
over all streets, a 12-foot clearance over driveways, and a ten-foot clearance
above grade in all other areas. Electrical conductors emerging from the ground
shall be protected by enclosures or raceways for direct buried cable or to the
approved buried depth for protected conductors and up to a point eight feet
above grade. Acceptable protection shall be rigid metal, intermediate metal or
Schedule 80 non-metallic conduit or channel. Manufactured home power supply
cords need not be enclosed in conduit or raceways.
   (C)   Maintenance of all systems. All electrical systems shall be maintained
in a safe condition. All damaged or defective equipment shall be repaired or
replaced, all loose equipment shall be secured, all faceplates and panel fronts
shall be in place and all live parts shall be covered to prevent accidental
contact. Dead tree branches which overhang distribution wiring shall be
removed. All components of the manufactured home community electrical system
shall be inspected by the manufactured home community management and it shall
be the responsibility of the licensee to have any defects corrected.
(1975 Code, § 35-250) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046 FUEL SUPPLY.
   The distribution, storage and use of natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas,
fuel oil or other fuels shall be in accordance with the following:
   (A)   The National Fire Protection Association’s Installation of Oil Burning
Equipment, 1992 Edition;
   (B)   The National Fire Protection Association’s National Fuel Gas Code,
1992 Edition;
   (C)   The National Fire Protection Association’s Storage and Handling of
Liquefied Petroleum Gases, 1995 Edition; and
   (D)   The United States Department of Transportation’s Pipeline Safety
Regulations.
(1975 Code, § 35-260) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.047 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Bales of straw or other flammable materials that do not meet the
requirements of division (B) below shall not be used for skirting or insulation
of the manufactured home.
   (B)   Garages, carports, porches, awnings, sheds, skirtings and other
similar appurtenances shall be constructed of material designed for exterior
use that meets the flame spread rating of 200 or less in accordance with the
American Society of Testing and Materials, Standard Method of Test for Surface
Burning Characteristics of Building Materials (Standard E84).
   (C)   Manufactured home communities constructed after July 1, 1998 must be
located in a fire protection district and provided with fire hydrants within
500 feet of any structure in the manufactured home community. As an alternative
to fire hydrants, a holding pond or other source of water of 100,000 gallons or
more accessible to the Fire Department may be used, if the Fire Department is
capable of pumping from the body of water.
   (D)   Flammable liquids and gasoline-powered equipment other than motorized
vehicles shall not be stored within five feet of a manufactured home, except
when stored in a shed or garage.
   (E)   All intended means of egress shall not be obstructed.
(1975 Code, § 35-270) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.048 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Communities constructed after July 1, 1998 shall have an average
illumination level of at least 0.6 footcandles and a minimum illumination level
of 0.3 footcandles maintained for all streets in the manufactured home
community.
   (B)   To achieve this level of illumination, the following are acceptable:
      (1)   The use of a 175-watt mercury or sodium vapor lamp or a 600-watt
tungsten lamp, at an elevation of 25 feet, every 250 feet; and
      (2)   Yard lights, at each site, having an average equivalent
illumination of a 100-watt electric light bulb.
(1975 Code, § 35-280) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.049 POOLS AND BEACHES.
   Swimming pools and bathing beaches, if provided, shall be constructed and
operated in accordance with the State Swimming Facility Code. Separate
construction permits and licenses are required in accordance with the Swimming
Facility Act.
(1975 Code, § 35-290) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.050 SOLID AND LANDSCAPE WASTE.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse shall be stored and disposed of so as not to
create a nuisance or a health threat.
      (1)   Garbage must be stored in rust resistant, water-tight and fly-proof
containers with the lids closed.
      (2)   Garbage containers must be stored at least six inches off the
ground surface or on an impervious surface.
      (3)   Garbage containers must be emptied at least once a week.
      (4)   A minimum capacity of 40 gallons per occupied site per week shall
be provided, according to the manufactured home community rules in §
150.071. Sealed bags can be utilized to supplement therequired containers on
the day of garbage collection only. A single 20-gallon container is acceptable
if emptied twice a week.
      (5)   Individual containers shall be available at each site or bulk
containers shall be located within 250 feet of any home, provided that the
Zoning Officer receives written assurance that the location of the containers
is acceptable to the residents whose homes will be more than 250 feet from the
containers. There is no distance limitation for bulk containers used by the
manufactured home community management to empty individual containers.
      (6)   Garbage and refuse shall be disposed of in accordance with the
requirements of the State Pollution Control Board (35 Ill. Adm. Code Subtitle
G).
   (B)   Landscape waste (leaves, brush and grass) shall be stored separately
from garbage in cans or bags if required by local authorities. Large branches
do not need to be placed in a container prior to disposal. If landscape waste
burning is permitted by the local jurisdiction, all fires must be located at
least 30 feet from any structure.
(1975 Code, § 35-300) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.051 MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Household furniture and appliances, auto parts including tires and
batteries, building materials, abandoned equipment and similar items shall not
be stored within the manufactured home community except in sheds or garages
with doors. If above items are to be discarded, they must be removed from the
manufactured home community within seven days. Precautions shall be taken to
prevent entrapment of children in or under any appliance that is being
discarded.
   (B)   Abandoned home as defined in the Abandoned Mobile Home Act shall be
removed within 60 days after the date damaged. The manufactured home community
owner shall advise the Zoning Officer in writing if removal cannot be
accomplished within 60 days, the reason for the delay and the expected date of
compliance.
   (C)   Trees and bushes shall not interfere with normal pedestrian and
vehicular traffic. Branches shall not touch the roofs of any structure. Dead
trees and branches shall be removed.
   (D)   Any abandoned or unused automobile or piece of equipment having the
appearance of being abandoned shall be removed from the manufactured home
community. All automobiles, trailers and similar vehicles subject to licensure
by the Secretary of State shall have current licenses, displayed. The State
Vehicle Code specifies the penalty for abandoning automobiles and the
provisions for their removal by the manufactured home community management.
(See §
150.005)
   (E)   All open excavations must be barricaded to prevent access.
(1975 Code, § 35-310) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 IDENTIFICATION OF SITES.
   All sites shall be identified with a legible reflective or contrasting
number or letter a minimum of three inches in height. This identification shall
be at the same location for each site and visible from the street. There shall
be a logical order for the identification of the sites. Previous addresses on
homes relocated to the manufactured home community shall be removed. Street
signs shall identify all streets that have names. The licensee shall maintain a
plan of the manufactured home community indicating the labeling system, a copy
of which shall be available to the Zoning Officer upon request. All electric
and natural gas meters must be identified for the site for which they serve. If
there is no identification for a vacant site, a temporary identification shall
be provided.
(1975 Code, § 35-320) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.053 VECTOR CONTROL.
   The management of the manufactured home community shall take the following
measures to prevent insects and rodents in the manufactured home community in
addition to requirements specified in other section of this subchapter.
   (A)   Areas of ponding water and items which hold water such as trees shall
be eliminated.
   (B)   Grass and weeds shall not exceed six inches in height.
   (C)   Firewood shall be stacked at least six inches above the ground or on
an impervious surface such as concrete.
   (D)   The manufactured home community shall be cleared of animal excrement.
(1975 Code, § 35-330) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.054 FENCES.
   Fences on individual lots, if permitted by the manufactured home community
owner and the local jurisdiction, shall meet the following provisions.
   (A)   Fences shall not exceed six feet in height.
   (B)   Fences shall be sturdy and not present a safety hazard.
(1975 Code, § 35-340) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.055 INSPECTION DOORS.
   If the manufactured home skirting is provided, a sliding or hinged
inspection door at least 24 inches wide and the approximate height of the
skirting shall be provided near the utility connections to the home.
Interlocking skirting with panels removable without the use of tools is
acceptable. For homes installed prior to July 1,1998 and not provided with an
inspection door, the manufactured home community management, upon request from
the Zoning Officer, shall remove the skirting to allow for an inspection under
the home.
(1975 Code, § 35-350) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.056 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   If approved by the manufactured home community owner, a non-motorized
recreational vehicle that meets the following criteria may be located in a
manufactured home community as a residence:
      (1)   The vehicle contains toilet and bathing facilities;
      (2)   The vehicle is connected to the required utilities in a permanent
fashion as prescribed in this subchapter;
      (3)   The vehicle is intended to be operated by the same person or
persons for at least two consecutive months at one location; and
      (4)   If larger than eight feet by 32 feet, the vehicle shall be secured
as specified in the Mobile Home Tie-Down Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 870).
   (B)   Motorized recreational vehicles shall not be located in a manufactured
home community as a residence.
(1975 Code, § 35-360) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   All animals must be confined in a fenced area or on a cable or similar
restraint at all times the animals are outdoors.
(1975 Code, § 35-370) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.058 VACANT SITES.
   When a home is moved from a site, the sewer riser shall be capped or plugged
with a water-tight and odor-tight fitting. The water shall be shut off and the
water line plugged or capped. In freezing weather, the water line must be
drained or insulated to prevent breakage. All lines for natural gas, propane
and other fuels shall be shut off and plugged or capped. Section 150.026
contains the requirements for deletion of sites.
(1975 Code, § 35-380) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.059 DUPLEX UNITS.
   Duplex manufactured homes located in a manufactured home community must have
separate water, sewer and electrical services for each resident and a one-hour,
fire-rated assembly shall separate the units. Sites with a duplex unit shall be
considered as two sites for licensure purposes.
(1975 Code, § 35-390) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LICENSEE
§ 150.070 REQUIRED DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Upon initial admittance to the manufactured home community, a new
resident shall be provided a copy of the manufactured home community rules (§
150.071).
   (B)   The manufactured home community owner or manager shall provide a
resident of each site with a copy of the Department’s publication “Living in a
Manufactured Home Community”, which contains information regarding the tie-down
of homes, safety tips in the event of a tornado and a copy of the Mobile Home
Landlord and Tenants Rights Act.
   (C)   A copy of the Mobile Home Park Act and the Manufactured Home Community
Code shall be available form the manufactured home community owner or manager
for inspection by manufactured home community residents. Copies may be obtained
from any of the Department’s offices indicated in 77 Ill. Admin. Code, Part
860, Appendix A.
   (D)   The name, address and telephone number of the manufactured home
community manager whom residents are to notify of a problem within the
manufactured home community shall be provided to each resident. An answering
machine shall be connected to the manufactured home community manager’s phone
if someone is not normally available to answer the calls.
((1975 Code, § 35-400) (Ord. 2022-12-21D, passed 12-21-2022; Ord. 2023-7-19A,
passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.071 MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY RULES.
   The manufactured home community owner shall establish and enforce rules
governing the resident’s responsibilities for maintaining the manufactured home
community. The rules established by the manufactured home community owner shall
include the control of pets, the storage of garbage, the disposal of abandoned
equipment and appliances, the construction of auxiliary structures and fences,
the necessity of keeping all vehicles currently licensed, the policy for
performing vehicle repairs, the control of the growth of weeds and grass, the
storage of firewood, the control of insects and rodents, the need to provide
access under the home, the protection of water pipes from freezing, the repair
of the residents’ water and sewage leaks, the maintenance of the electrical
equipment, the maintenance of homes and auxiliary structures, the requirement
for the resident to provide fire extinguishers in the home as required by § 9
of the Act, the requirements for compliance with the Smoke Detector Act, and
all other rules necessary to maintain the manufactured home community in
compliance with the Act and this subchapter. Provisions shall be included in
the manufactured home community rules to inform residents that the park
management will correct violations that have not been corrected by the
resident.
(1975 Code, § 35-410) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.072 REGISTER.
   A manufactured home community register shall be maintained by the
manufactured home community manager as specified in § 13 of the Act. The
register shall contain acknowledgment by the resident that the information
required in § 150.070 was provided. (See §
150.003, Illustration E.)
(1975 Code, § 35-420) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.073 INSPECTIONS BY MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT.
   The manufactured home community owner or manager shall inspect the
manufactured home community at least weekly to determine the occurrence of any
violations of this subchapter. The residents shall be required to correct any
violations that are their responsibility. If the residents fail to make the
correction, the management shall be responsible for correcting the violations
or initiating action against the resident to get the violation(s) corrected. If
this is not possible, the manufactured home community manager shall advise the
Zoning Officer in writing of the action initiated against the resident and the
anticipated date of correction of the violations.
(1975 Code, § 35-430) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTION BY THE ZONING OFFICER
§ 150.085 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   The Zoning Officer may grant a variance to a specific provision of this
subchapter when the owner of a manufactured home community submits a written
request for such variance to the Zoning Officer, with drawings, specifications,
documents, data or calculations showing that the alternative methods or designs
proposed will provide protection equivalent to compliance with the requirements
of this subchapter. The capability of the proposed deviation to ensure
protection equivalent to compliance with the requirements of this subchapter
shall be the basis for approval or denial of a variance. The Zoning Officer
shall notify the applicant in writing of its decision to either grant or deny
the variance within 60 days after receipt of the request. A variance must be
requested and approved before the proposed activity may be implemented.
(1975 Code, § 35-500) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.086 ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   Prior to the suspension, denial or revocation of a manufactured home
community license or the denial of a request for a construction permit, the
Zoning Officer shall offer the person the right to request an administrative
hearing.
(1975 Code, § 35-510) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.087 COMMON OPERATION.
   (A)   Section 2.5 of the Act states that separate ownership of contiguous
tracts of land shall not preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a
manufactured home community if they are maintained and operated jointly.
   (B)   Common maintenance and operation shall include any of the following:
      (1)   A common name for the properties;
      (2)   A continuous numbering system for the sites;
      (3)   Common maintenance of the manufactured home community’s roads,
grass and utilities; or
      (4)   Property rents paid to one individual or entity.
(1975 Code, § 35-520) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
§ 150.088 EXISTING COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Any manufactured home community existing in the village shall be
maintained in a neat, clean and orderly manner. Equipment used for the park, or
parts and materials, i.e., tire axles, appliances and the like, shall be stored
inside a closed storage building with doors.
   (B)   The manufactured home community residents shall keep personal belongs
inside the home, stored under the home or stored inside an approved auxiliary
structure.
   (C)   The manufactured home community management shall maintain all rental
homes. The lawns will be mowed and the grass around the homes trimmed. Also, no
homes shall have broken windows, missing windows, boarded up windows, torn
screen, or broken doors. The homes shall have skirting in good condition, i.e.,
vinyl skirting, installed properly.
   (D)   Private manufactured home owners located inside the manufactured home
community shall maintain their homes in the same manner. All residents are
responsible for keeping their lot neat and clean. All rubbish and debris shall
be picked up and placed in a proper fly-tight container.
   (E)   Every door of manufactured homes located inside the manufactured home
community shall have a stairway with railing or a deck with railing for safe
entrance and egress. Each home shall be limited to two registered vehicles.
   (F)   If a manufactured home is added to the community, or a home is
replaced, a permit is required from the village. Each lot shall be upgraded to
include a full-engineered concrete pad and parking for two vehicles. The
electrical systems shall be properly upgraded to 100 amps.
   (G)   No home shall be added to the manufactured home community unless it is
a HUD-approved manufactured home. No home shall be added to the manufactured
home community without a pitched roof. All manufactured homes will be installed
by certified and qualified personnel. A copy of their certificate shall be
provided with each permit.
(1975 Code, § 35-530) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or organization violating any provision of this chapter,
where no other penalty is provided, shall be fined not less than $50 nor more
than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1975 Code, § 35-600) (Ord. 2023-7-19A, passed 7-19-2023)
CHAPTER 151: FLOODPLAIN AREAS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Permit requirements
   
151.04   Permit application
   
151.05   Duties of the Village Zoning Officer
   
151.06   Review of proposed development
   
151.07   Review of permit application
   
151.08   Reviews of subdivision proposals
   
151.09   Water supply systems
   
151.10   Sanitary sewage and waste disposal systems
   
151.11   Variances
   
151.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.13   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the State Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-
8 and 5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including, but not
necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building,
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above ground. The
term includes RVs and travel trailers on site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred,
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either: any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development activity without first obtaining a development
permit from the Village Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant must first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the Village Zoning Officer.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.05 DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE ZONING OFFICER.
   The Village Zoning Officer shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities under
the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter. The
Village Zoning Officer shall be responsible for receiving applications and
examining the plans and specifications for the application, the Village Zoning
Officer shall require any additional measures which are necessary to meet the
minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.06 REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Village Zoning Officer shall review proposed development to assure
that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies
from which approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (B)   If the development is proposed for a channel or adjacent area of a
stream draining one square mile or more, the applicant must first secure a
permit from the Illinois Division of Water Resources, or a letter stating
“Permit Not Required”.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.07 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Village Zoning Officer shall review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   If a proposed building site is in a floodprone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and manufactured homes) shall:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      (4)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.08 REVIEWS OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The Village Zoning Officer shall review subdivision proposals and
other proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
floodprone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the floodprone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazards.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.09 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   The Village Zoning Officer shall require within floodprone areas new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.10 SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The Village Zoning Officer shall require within floodprone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into flood waters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Board for
a variance. The Village Board shall review the applicant’s request for a
variance and shall submit its recommendation to the Village Board.
   (B)   The Village Board may attach such conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
      (1)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The development activity cannot be located outside the
floodplain;
         (b)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
         (c)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
         (d)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance;
         (e)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
         (f)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
         (g)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
      (2)   The Village Board shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of the building protections standards that would
lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
         (a)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage;
         (b)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
         (c)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the
Village Board to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program; however, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program, nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.13 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that
results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision
made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined
not less than $25, nor more than $250. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2007-9, passed 9-18-2007)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Jurisdiction
   
152.02   Approvals, interpretations and exceptions
   
152.03   Definitions and rules
   
152.04   Design standards
   
152.05   Procedures and requirements
   
152.06   Agreements
   
152.07   Required land improvements
   
152.08   Inspection at subdivider’s expense
   
152.09   Variations and exceptions
   
152.10   Occupancy permit
   
152.11   Enforcement
   
152.12   Record of plats
   
152.13   Validity
   
152.14   Minimum standards for street design
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Wherever any subdivisions of land shall hereafter be laid out within
the incorporated limits of the village or within one and one-half miles beyond
the incorporated boundary of the village, the subdivider thereof or his or her
agent shall submit both a preliminary and a final subdivision plan to the
village. Said plans, proposed improvements and all procedure relating thereto
shall in all respects be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter
contained in this chapter.
   (B)   All lands offered to the village for use as streets, highways, alleys,
parks and other public use shall be referred to the Board for review and
recommendation before being accepted by the Village Board or by any other
governing authority.
(1975 Code, § 33-101)
§ 152.02 APPROVALS, INTERPRETATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No land shall, after the adoption of these regulations, be subdivided
or filed for record, nor any street laid out, nor any improvements made to the
land, until the plan or plans of the subdivision or street improvements shall
have been certified to and approved by action of the Village Board. This
approval must be in writing and placed on the original tracing of the final
plans, according to the procedure outlined in §
152.05.
   (B)   No lot, tract or parcel of land within any such subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given until such subdivision plans have been properly reviewed by the Board and
officially approved by the Village Board.
   (C)   No improvements, such as sidewalks, water supply, storm water
drainage, sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or lighting, or
grading, paving or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made within any such
subdivision by any owner or owners, or his or her or their agent, or by any
public service corporation at the request of such owner or owners or his or her
or their agent until the plans for the subdivision and also the plans for
improvements thereto have been formally recommended by the Board and approved
by the Village Board.
   (D)   Subdivision of land lying outside of the village and within one and
one-half miles of the village limits shall also be required to conform with the
requirements of this chapter, in accordance with the provisions of the “Revised
Cities and Villages Act” of the state.
   (E)   All interpretations of these rules and regulations are reserved to the
administrative bodies referred to herein.
   (F)   The Village Board may vary and make exceptions as set forth herein in
instances where there is sufficient evidence, in its opinion, of hardship
caused by topographic conditions or where any other reasonable deterrents
prevail.
   (G)   Whenever a parcel is divided into lots containing one to three acres,
inclusive, and there are indications that such lots will eventually be
resubdivided into smaller building lots, consideration shall be given to the
street and lot arrangement of the original subdivision so that additional minor
streets can be opened which will permit a logical arrangement of smaller lots.
(1975 Code, § 33-102) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS AND RULES.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural,
the singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The word “building” shall include the word “structure” and the word
“lot” shall include the word “plot”.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way, used primarily for vehicular traffic, along
the side of or in the rear of properties which affords only a secondary means
of access to these properties.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines or
corporate boundary lines of the village.
      BUILDING. Any structure designed, built or intended for the shelter,
enclosure or protection of persons, animals, chattel or movable property of any
kind.
      BUILDING LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land, so designated
on the plat of the proposed subdivision, between which and the adjacent
boundary of the street upon which the lot abuts the erection of an enclosed
structure or portion thereof is to be prohibited.
      COUNCIL, BOARD. Whenever the words “Board” or “Village Board” are used in
this chapter they shall mean the Board of the Village of Wapella.
      CROSSWALK. A strip of land dedicated to public use which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street having one open end and being permanently terminated
by a vehicle turn-around.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by
the general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
transfer of ownership or for building development.
      MINOR STREET. A street intended primarily as access to abutting
properties.
      PLAT. A plan, map, drawing or chart on which the subdivided plan of the
subdivision is presented and which he or she submits for approval and intends
to record in final form.
      PLAT, FINAL. The drawings and documents presented for final approval and
as described in §
152.05(B).
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY (GENERAL PLAN). The drawings and documents presented
for conditional approval and as described in §
152.05(A).
      PRIMARY OR MAJOR STREET. A street of considerable continuity which serves
or is intended to serve as a major traffic artery connecting large areas.
      PUBLIC STREET. All primary, secondary and minor streets which are shown
on the subdivision plat and are to be dedicated for public use.
      ROADWAY. The paved area for vehicular traffic existing on a street right-
of-way, and not the street right-of-way width.
      SECONDARY OR COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from minor
streets to the primary street system, including the principal entrance streets
of residence development and streets for circulation within such development.
      STREET. A street is an area which serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular and pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other streets.
      STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
public street.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
      SUBDIVIDER. The person or persons responsible for preparing and recording
the plats of the subdivision and for carrying out all appropriate requirements
relating thereto as outlined in this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of land into two or more parts, any of which is
less than five acres, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer
of ownership or building development, including all public streets, alleys,
ways for public service facilities, parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other
public grounds, and all the tracts, parcels, lots or blocks, and numbering of
all such lots, blocks or parcels by progressive numbers, giving their precise
dimensions; provided, however, that the following shall not be considered a
subdivision and shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of
five acres or more; in size which does not involve any new streets or easements
of access;
         (b)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
         (c)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of
adjoining and contiguous land;
         (d)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use
as right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not
involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (e)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public
utility which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
         (f)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
         (g)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
and
         (h)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land existing on
August 1, 1965, into no more than two parts and not involving any new streets
or easements of access.
      VILLAGE ENGINEER. The person or firm charged with the responsibility of
municipal engineering matters.
      ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning laws of Wapella, Illinois.
(1975 Code, § 33-103)
§ 152.04 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The subdivision of land, including the arrangement, character, extent,
width, grade and location of all streets, alleys or other land, to be dedicated
for public use, shall conform to the standards as approved and adopted by the
Village Board and other responsible governmental bodies; and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical
conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation
to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   All streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, to topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served
by such streets.
      (2)   Where such is not shown in the General Development Plan, the
arrangement of streets in a subdivision shall either:
         (a)   Provide for the continuation or appropriate projection of
existing principal streets in surrounding areas; or
         (b)   Conform to a plan for the area or neighborhood approved or
adopted by the Council to meet a particular situation where topographical or
other conditions make continuance or conformance to existing streets
impracticable.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be so laid out that their use by through
traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Where a subdivision borders on or contains a railroad or
expressway, the Board may require a street approximately parallel to and on
each side of such railroad or expressway, at a distance suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, as for park purposes in residential
districts, or for commercial or industrial purposes in appropriate districts.
Such distances shall also be determined with due regard for the requirements of
approach grades and future grade separations.
      (5)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets or alleys shall be
prohibited.
      (6)   All street intersections and confluences should encourage safe
traffic flow.
      (7)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
      (8)   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any one
point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius adequate to ensure clear sight distances (see
Table of Minimum Standards).
      (9)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles and no street shall intersect any other street at less than 60
degrees.
      (10)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
radius as specified in the Table of Minimum Standards in §
152.14. The Board may permit comparable cut-offs or chords in place of rounded
corners.
      (11)   Street right-of-way widths shall be as shown in the
Table of Minimum Standards in §
152.14.
      (12)   Half-width streets shall be prohibited, except where essential to
the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Board finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. Wherever a half-street is adjacent to a tract to be
subdivided, the other half of the street shall be platted within such tract.
      (13)   Dead-end streets (cul-de-sacs) designed to be so permanently,
shall not be longer, than 500 feet from the intersection of the origin through
the center of the circle to the end of the right-of-way and shall be provided
at the closed end with a turn-around having an outside pavement diameter of at
least 100 feet. No cul-de-sac may intersect with another cul-de-sac.
      (14)   No street names shall be used which will duplicate or be confused
with the names of existing streets. Existing street names shall be projected
wherever possible. Street names shall be subject to the approval of the Board.
      (15)   Street gradients and vertical curves shall be as specified in the
Table of Minimum Standards in §
152.14.
      (16)   Street grades shall provide proper relation between the street and
the first floor elevation of the houses or buildings and permit convenient and
economical access to and drainage of the lots.
   (B)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys shall be provided in commercial, business and industrial
districts, except that the Board may waive this requirement where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access, such as off-street
loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for the uses
proposed.
      (2)   Alleys in residential areas shall not be permitted, except where
deemed necessary and on the recommendation of the Board.
      (3)   The width of an alley shall be 40 feet in residential areas and 40
feet, in commercial, business and industrial districts.
      (4)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but where necessary corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit
safe vehicular movement.
      (5)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turn-around facilities at the
dead-end, as determined by the Board.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines shall
be provided for utilities where necessary and shall be at least ten feet wide.
      (2)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage of
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width or construction, or both, as will be adequate for the
purpose. Parallel streets or parkways may be required in connection therewith.
   (D)   Block standards.
      (1)   The maximum lengths of blocks shall be 1,320 feet. Blocks over 800
feet may require cross-walkways. Cross-walk easements not less than ten feet in
width shall be provided where deemed necessary by the Board at the approximate
centers of the blocks. The use of additional cross-walkways in any instance to
provide safe and convenient access to schools, parks or other similar
destinations will be specified by the Village Board.
      (2)   No specific rule concerning the shape of blocks is made, but blocks
must fit easily into the overall plan of the subdivision and their design must
evidence consideration of lot planning, traffic flow and public areas.
      (3)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use must be
designated as such, and the plan must show adequate off-street areas to provide
for parking, loading docks and such other facilities that may be required to
accommodate motor vehicles.
   (E)   Lot standards.
      (1)   Interior residential lots shall have an area of not less than 7,200
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 60
feet.
      (2)   Corner residential lots shall have an area of not less than 8,400
square feet and a width at the established building line of not less than 70
feet.
      (3)   Reverse corner residential lots shall be of sufficient size to
maintain building lines on both streets.
      (4)   Building lines in unincorporated areas within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall conform to the requirements of applicable county ordinances,
except that in no instance shall the building line be less than 25 feet from
the street line.
      (5)   All lots shall abut upon publicly dedicated streets.
      (6)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or radial
to the street line.
      (7)   Double frontage lots are forbidden except where lots back upon a
primary street (major thoroughfare) and in such instances, vehicular access
between the lots and the thoroughfare is prohibited or where topography of the
land might render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such lots shall have an
additional depth of at least ten feet in order to allow for a protective screen
planting.
      (8)   Lots abutting a watercourse, drainageway, channel or stream shall
have additional minimum width or depth as required to provide an adequate
building site and afford the minimum usable lot area in conformance with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance, when applicable.
   (F)   Parks, schools and public areas.
      (1)   Where a proposed park, playground, school or other public use area,
and adjacent unincorporated areas, is located in whole or in part in a
subdivision, the Village Board may require the dedication or reservation of
such area for acquisition by the proper governing bodies within a period not to
exceed one year, in whole or in part, within the subdivision in those cases in
which the Village Board deems such requirements to be reasonable; however, in
no case shall the total amount of required public areas to be dedicated or
reserved for acquisition by the proper governing bodies, in addition to public
streets, exceed 10% of the total gross acreage owned and controlled by one
developer. The acquisition of the additional area needed for parks,
playgrounds, schools or other public use other than streets and alleys, shall
be secured by the proper governing, body or arrangements made for securing the
area from the owner within a period not to exceed 90 days.
      (2)   In subdividing any land within the village or within one and one-
half miles of the corporate limits due regard shall be shown for all natural
features such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or similar
conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the
proposed development.
(1975 Code, § 33-104) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Procedure for filing of preliminary plans.
      (1)   Filing:
         (a)   A preliminary plan for the subdivision of any land within the
corporate limits of the village or within one and one-half miles of the
corporate limits of the village shall be first submitted in triplicate to the
Village Board by a subdivider wishing to divide such land into building lots
for sale or assessment, or both, or wishing to dedicate streets, alleys or
other land for public use. Said preliminary plan shall include all adjacent
land held in ownership or controlled by the subdivider and intended for future
development.
         (b)   The Village Board shall, instruct the Village Engineer to
collaborate with the subdivider in assembling plans for the design and
construction of streets and such other public improvements as are required by
this chapter or any other ordinances.
      (2)   The preliminary plan shall contain the following:
         (a)   Identification and description:
            1.   Proposed name of the subdivision;
            2.   Location by township, section, range or by other legal
description;
            3.   Names and addresses of developer and designer who made the
plan;
            4.   Scale of plan one inch equals 100 feet, or larger. Tracts of
200 acres or more may be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 200 feet;
            5.   Date; and
            6.   Northpoint.
         (b)   Delineation of existing conditions:
            1.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision shall be clearly
indicated and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
            2.   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of-way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses and
permanent easements, and section and corporate lines within or adjacent to the
tract;
            3.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided or
subdivided land;
            4.   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the tract, indicating pipe sizes, manholes and exact
location;
            5.   Existing zoning of proposed subdivision and adjacent tracts in
zoned areas;
            6.   Contours at two-foot intervals except where topography of the
tract demands one-foot contour intervals;
            7.   Layout of streets, widths of rights-of-way and also the widths
of cross-walkways and easements;
            8.   Layout, number and dimensions of lots;
            9.   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily
reserved for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the
subdivision;
            10.   Building setback lines, showing dimensions; and
            11.   Easements shall be provided for any and all public utilities
where alleys are not provided. Proper continuity for the utilities from block
to block shall be maintained.
      (3)   The following qualifications shall govern approval of the
preliminary plan.
         (a)   The approval of a preliminary plan by the Village Board is
tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout as
submitted.
         (b)   The Village Board may require such changes or revisions as are
deemed necessary in the interest and the needs of the village.
         (c)   Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering
proposals pertaining to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage
disposal, gas and electric service, street lighting, fire hydrants, grading,
gradients and roadway widths, and the surfacing of streets, by the Village
Engineer and the county officials where concerned, prior to the approval of the
final plat by the village.
         (d)   No plan will be approved for the subdivision of land which is
subject to periodic flooding or which contains extremely poor drainage
facilities and which would make adequate drainage of the streets impossible;
however, if the subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the
opinion of the Village Engineer or the County Superintendent of Highways, where
concerned, make the area completely safe for residential occupancy and provide
adequate street drainage, the preliminary plan of the subdivision may be
approved.
         (e)   Tentative approval shall be effective for a maximum period of 12
months unless, upon application of the developer, the Village Board grants an
extension. If the final plat has not been recorded within this time limit, the
preliminary plan must again be submitted for approval.
   (B)   Approval of final plat.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   After approval of the preliminary plan by the Village Board and
the fulfillment of the requirements of these regulations, one tracing of the
final plat of the subdivision drawn in ink on tracing cloth not to exceed 36
inches by 48 inches in size, shall be submitted to the Village Board for
approval.
         (b)   Action must be taken by the Village Board within 30 days after
the final plat has been submitted for approval.
         (c)   Upon approval by the Village Board the developer shall record
the plat with the Recorder of the county within six months. If not recorded
within this time the approval shall be null and void.
         (d)   A print of the final plat, as recorded, will be filed and
retained in the offices of the village.
      (2)   The final plat shall contain the following:
         (a)   Identification and description:
            1.   Name of subdivision;
            2.   Location by township, section, range or by other legal
description;
            3.   Names of owners and certification by a licensed surveyor;
            4.   Scale one inch to 100 feet or larger (shown graphically);
            5.   Date; and
            6.   Northpoint.
         (b)   Delineation:
            1.   Boundary of plat based on an accurate traverse, with angular
and lineal dimensions;
            2.   Exact location, width and names of all streets within and
adjoining the plat, and the exact location and widths of all cross-walks.
Proposed street names shall be checked with the proper village officials;
            3.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments (not less than three) which shall be accurately
described in the plat;
            4.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied
to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
            5.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent
bearings and lengths of all arcs;
            6.   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services
and utilities;
            7.   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet
and hundredths;
            8.   Accurate location of at least two monuments, which shall be
concrete six inches by six inches by 30 inches with metal pipe or rod cast in
center. Permanent stone or concrete monuments shall be set at two corners or
angles on the outside boundary. Pipes or other physical markers shall be placed
at each intersection of street center lines. All U.S., state, county or other
official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position;
            9.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common use of all property
owners;
            10.   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimensions;
            11.   Protective covenants which meet with the approval of the
Village Board shall be made a part of the final plat and filed of record with
the County Recorder;
            12.   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers
shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details
are correct;
            13.   Notarized certification, by owner or owners or by any
mortgage holder on record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of
streets and other public areas;
            14.   Certifications showing that all taxes and special assessments
due on the property to be subdivided have been paid in full;
            15.   Proper form for the approval of the Village Board with space
for signature;
            16.   Approval by signature of village, county and state officials
concerned with the specifications of utility installations; and
            17.   Approval by signature of the Village Board. Such approval
shall be as follows:
      I, ___________, President of the Village of Wapella, do certify that on
this _____ day of ____________, 20___, this plat of subdivision was duly
approved by the Village Board of the Village of Wapella.
   __________________________________
   President
      This approval of the final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or
effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any street or other
proposed public way or space shown on the plat.
(1975 Code, § 33-105) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06 AGREEMENTS.
   The final plat to be filed of record shall be accompanied by a statement
signed by the owner and subdivider setting forth the following:
   (A)   Plans and specifications for such improvements previously approved by
the Village Engineer clearly describing the same;
   (B)   Agreement executed by the owner and the subdivider wherein they agree
to make and install the improvements provided for in §
152.07, in accordance with the plans and specifications accompanying the final
plat;
   (C)   Bond in the amount of the estimate of the Village Engineer of the cost
of the installation of such improvements with good and sufficient surety
thereon to be approved, by the Village Board conditioned upon the installation
of the required improvements within two years of the approval of the final
plat; and
   (D)   In lieu of the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) above set forth, in
the event that such owner and subdivider shall submit said evidence of the
existence of the binding agreement with a responsible contractor agreeing to
accept all bonds which may be issued under any local improvement proceedings
for the installation of such improvement or a bona fide and subsisting bid by a
responsible person for the purchase for cash of such local improvement bonds at
par value or more, then the requirements of divisions (B) and (C) above may be
waived.
(1975 Code, § 33-106)
§ 152.07 REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS.
   No subdivision of land shall be approved without receiving a statement
signed by the Village Engineer, certifying that the improvement described in
the subdivided plans and specifications, together with agreements, meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the village and that they comply with
the following.
   (A)   Street improvements.
      (1)   All streets within the corporate limits of the village shall be
improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs and gutters.
      (2)   Roadways shall be surfaced with not less than six inches of packed
gravel, one coat of MCO consisting of one-half gallons to the square yard,
three coats of MC 5 three-tenths of a gallon to the square yard, covered with
buck shot gravel.
      (3)   Storm water inlets shall be provided within the roadway improvement
at points specified by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   In subdivisions outside the corporate area but within the one and
one-half mile area, roadway improvements shall conform to the same standards of
improvements as required of subdivisions within the corporate area.
   (B)   Public utilities. All utility lines for telephone and electric service
shall be placed in rear line easements when carried on overhead poles.
   (C)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks to a width of not less than four feet
shall be installed on both sides of primary and secondary thoroughfares and may
be required by the Village Board or governing authorities as a part of the
dedicated street improvements on minor street.
   (D)   Landscaping.
      (1)   All parkways within the dedicated street area or other public use
areas shall be graded and seeded in an approved manner.
      (2)   Street trees having a truck diameter of not less than two and one-
half inches shall be planted along all streets where trees do not exist, and
placed in such a manner as to provide an effective appearance for the
enhancement of abutting properties. Due care shall be taken so as not to block
private or village drainage tile, ditches or waterways.
   (E)   Street lighting. Provisions shall be made for the adequate lighting of
public streets within the proposed subdivision in accordance with the standards
and requirements established by the governing authorities.
(1975 Code, § 33-107) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 INSPECTION AT SUBDIVIDER’S EXPENSE.
   All public improvements proposed to be made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected during the course of construction by the Village
Engineer or a duly designated deputy. All fees and costs connected with such
inspection and in reviewing the plans and specifications for such improvements
shall be paid by the subdivider.
(1975 Code, § 33-108) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The Board may recommend variations from these requirements in specific cases
which, in its opinion, do not affect the general plan or the spirit of the
ordinance. The Village Board or the county authorities may then approve
variations from these requirements in specific cases which, in its opinion, do
not affect the general plan or the spirit of the ordinance.
(1975 Code, § 33-109)
§ 152.10 OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   Occupancy permits shall be required of every subdivider prior to the sale or
lease of any subdivided property. Said permits shall be issued by the Village
Board. No occupancy permit shall be granted by any governing official for the
use of any structure within a subdivision approved for platting or replatting
until required utility facilities have been installed and made ready to service
the property, and that roadways providing access to the subject lot or lots
have been constructed, or that are in the course of construction.
(1975 Code, § 33-110) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the County
Recorder’s office or have any validity until it shall have been approved in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 33-111) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 RECORD OF PLATS.
   All of such plats of subdivisions, after the same have been submitted and
approved as provided in this chapter, shall be copied upon a book of plats of
said village and shall be filed and kept by said village among the records of
the village.
(1975 Code, § 33-112)
§ 152.13 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is
adjudged to be void, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this chapter.
(1975 Code, § 33-113)
§ 152.14 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STREET DESIGN.
 
              Radius Length   Tangents                            Tangent
        Way   of     of       between  Maxim um Minimum  Clear    Property
Street  Width Horizo Vertical Reverse  Gradient Gradient Sight    Lines at
              ntal   Curves   Curves                     Distance Street
              Curves                                              Intersections
Alley*  40 ft 400 ft 150 ft   150 ft   6%       0.35%    300 ft   20 ft
Cul-de- 50 ft 200 ft 100 ft   100 ft   6%       0.35%    200 ft   15 ft
sac*
Primary 70-
*       100   500 ft 200 ft   200 ft   596      0.35%    500 ft   25 ft
        ft
Subdivi
sion    50 ft 400 ft 200 ft   200 ft   596      0.35%    400 ft.  20 ft
seconda
ry*
*Minimum standards for streets marked with an asterisk (*) shall be as
indicated or as determined by the Board and the Village Engineer
 
(1975 Code, § 33-115)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who constructs any public improvement
or portion thereof in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be,
upon conviction, fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each offense;
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever shall sell or offer for sale, lease or offer for lease, while
this chapter is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the
incorporated limits of the village or any additions thereto, or any
resubdivision of any lot or block therein, or within contiguous territory and
not more than one and one-half miles beyond the incorporated boundary of the
village, before all of the requirements of this chapter have been complied
with, shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $250 for each lot, block
or part thereof so disposed of, offered for sale or leased.
(1975 Code, § 33-114)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Intent
   
153.004   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.005   Interpretation
   
153.006   Title
   
153.007   Definitions
   
153.008   Rules of interpretation
General Regulations
   
153.020   Jurisdiction and compliance
   
153.021   Use restrictions
   
153.022   Site restrictions
   
153.023   General development procedure
   
153.024   Vision clearance
   
153.025   District lot regulations
Zoning Districts and Maps
   
153.040   Districts
   
153.041   Zoning map directory
   
153.042   District boundaries
   
153.043   Annexed territories
District Use Regulations
   
153.055   R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential
   
153.056   R-2 High Density Single-Family Residential
   
153.057   R-3 Multi-Family Residential
   
153.058   R-4 Mobile Home Residential
   
153.059   B-1 General Commercial
   
153.060   B-2 Highway Commercial District
   
153.061   General Industrial District
Special Regulations
   
153.075   Application of regulations
   
153.076   Performance standards
   
153.077   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.078   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
153.079   Signs
   
153.080   Kennels, veterinary establishments
   
153.081   Hospital, church or other religious or eleemosynary institutions
   
153.082   Amusement center, bowling alley, dance hall and similar places of
amusement
   
153.083   Nursery school, daycare center
   
153.084   Special commercial development
   
153.085   Poultry enclosures
   
153.086   Modifications and exceptions
Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   
153.100   Lawful use may be continued
   
153.101   Nonconforming buildings
   
153.102   Nonconforming use of building or land
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.115   Zoning Officer
   
153.116   Permits
   
153.117   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.118   Planning Commission duties in zoning administration
   
153.119   Variances
   
153.120   Special use permits
   
153.121   Amendments
   
153.122   Fees
Small Electricity-Generating Wind Devices for Self-Consumption
   
153.135   Authority and applicability
   
153.136   Purpose and intent
   
153.137   Definitions
   
153.138   Indemnification
   
153.139   Requirements
Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
153.150   Intent
   
153.151   Definitions
   
153.152   Site requirements
   
153.153   Permit application fee
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted under the authority of state statutes. The
Village Board, hereinafter referred to as the Village Board, does ordain as
follows.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comforts and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To restrict and regulate therein the location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration and use of building, structures and land for
residential, business and manufacturing and other specified uses;
   (C)   To protect the character and the stability of the residential,
business and manufacturing areas within this chapter’s geographic jurisdiction,
and to promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
   (D)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the
area of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light
and air to protect the public health;
   (F)   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   (G)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (H)   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   (I)   To prevent additions or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder:
      (1)   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards
in the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
      (2)   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
      (3)   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
geographic jurisdiction of this chapter;
      (4)   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming use of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district; and
      (5)   And to define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.003 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to classify, regulate and restrict the
location of trades, industries and commercial enterprises, and the location of
buildings arranged, intended and designed for specified uses, or regulating and
limiting the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected, or classifying,
regulating and determining the area of front, rear and side yards, courts and
other open spaces about buildings and of regulating and limiting the intensity
of the use of the land and lot areas within such geographic area of
jurisdiction; creating a Board of Zoning Appeals; defining certain terms used
in said ordinance; providing penalties for its violation and designating the
time when the chapter shall take effect.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.004 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued pursuant to law; however, wherever this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements, shall be liberally construed in favor of the village and shall
not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other power granted by the state
statutes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.006 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the “Zoning
Ordinance, Village of Wapella, Illinois.”
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal
use and located on the same premises serving a purpose customarily incidental
to the principal use. For example, a retail business is not considered
customarily incidental to a residential use. Residential accessory uses may
include storage of household goods, parking areas, gardening, servants’
quarters, private swimming pools, private emergency shelters and other similar
uses.
   ALLEY. A specific public right-of-way affording only secondary access to
abutting properties.
   ARTERIAL STREETS. A public street or highway used or intended to be used
primarily for fast or heavy through traffic.
   BASEMENT. The portion of any structure located partly below the average
adjoining lot grade.
   BOARDING HOUSE, ROOMING OR LODGING HOUSE. A residential building, or portion
thereof, other than a motel, apartment hotel or hotel, containing lodging rooms
for accommodation of three or more persons who are not members of the keeper’s
family and where lodging or meals or both are provided by prearrangement and
for definite periods at a definite prearranged price.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or
personal property.
   BUILDING AREA. Total ground coverage in square feet of all buildings and
structures including garages, carports and other attached or accessory
structures.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation of
the finished lot grade along the front yard face of the structure to the
highest point of flat roofs, to the mean height level between the eaves and
ridges of gables, gambrel, hip and pitch roofs, or to the deck line of mansard
roofs.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The extensively developed and evolving plan, also called
a master plan, adopted by the Village Planning Commission.
   CONSERVATION. Preservation of land, water, flora, fauna and cultural
artifacts in their original state.
   CONSUMER SERVICE. Sale of any service to individual customers for their own
personal benefit, enjoyment or convenience. For example, CONSUMER SERVICES
include the provisions of the personal services such as beautician and
barbering service, the provision of lodging, entertainment, specialized
instruction, financial service, transportation, laundry and dry cleaning
services and all other similar services.
   DENSITY. Number of living units per lots allowable under the schedule of
regulations.
   DWELLING. A building designed or used exclusively as a residence, but not
including boarding or lodging houses, motels, hotels, tents, cabins or mobile
homes.
   FAMILY. A single individual, doing his or her own cooking and living upon
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit, or a collective body of persons
doing their own cooking and living together upon the premises as a separate
housekeeping unit in a domestic relationship based upon birth, marriage or
other domestic bond as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house,
lodging house, club, fraternity or hotel.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. For the purpose of determining the ratio of the floor
area of a building to the area of the lot, the GROSS FLOOR AREA shall be the
sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building
excluding areas used for accessory garage purposes and such basement and cellar
areas as are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the
building. All horizontal dimensions shall be taken from the exterior faces of
walls, including walls or other enclosures of enclosed porches.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building, or an accessory portion of a
principal building enclosed on at least three sides which is intended for and
used to store private vehicles and other personal property.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, other than a private or storage
garage, where motor driven vehicles equipped, repaired, serviced, rented, sold
or stored.
   GRADE. The highest level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to
the exterior walls of the building or structure.
   HEN HOUSE. Also called a “poultry coop,” a structure where female poultry
(hens) are kept. Hen houses are accessory structures under this code and
subject to all applicable regulations concerning accessory structures.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation conducted by members of the family
only within their place of residence; provided, that no additional persons are
employed in the performance of such services except one receptionist or
assistant.
   LOT. A single parcel of land which may be legally described as such, or two
or more adjacent numbered lots or parts of such lots in a recorded subdivision
plat having principal frontage on a street which comprises a site occupied by,
or intended for occupancy by one principal building or principal use together
with accessory buildings and uses, yards and other spaces required by this
chapter.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on two streets at their juncture, when the
interior angle formed is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT LINES AND AREA. The peripheral boundaries of a parcel of land and the
total area lying within such boundaries.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, RECORDED. A lot designed on a subdivision plat or deed duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the County Recorder’s office. A RECORDED LOT may or may
not coincide with a zoning lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a parcel of land measured at the rear of the
specified front yard.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land composed of one or more recorded lots,
occupied or to be occupied by a principal building or buildings or principal
use or uses along with permitted accessory buildings or uses meeting all the
requirements for area, buildable area, frontage, widths, yards, setbacks and
any other requirements set forth in this chapter.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for permanent habitation and so
constructed as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently
attached to its frame, from the place of its construction the locations, or
subsequent location, at which it is intended to be a permanent home and
designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more
persons, provided that any such structure resting on a permanent foundation,
with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed, shall not be construed as
a MOBILE HOME.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An area of land or lands upon which five or more
independent mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or for revenue
purposes, and shall include any building, structure, ten, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile home park.
   MOTEL. An establishment consisting of a group of lodging rooms each with
individual bathrooms and designed for use by transient guests. A MOTEL
furnishes customary hotel services such as maid service and laundering of linen
used in the lodging rooms, telephone and secretarial or desk service, and the
use and upkeep of furniture.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure which lawfully occupies a building site
or land at the time of adoption of this chapter, and which does not conform
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the
time of adoption of this chapter and which does not conform with the use
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-RETAIL COMMERCIAL. Commercial sales and services to customers who intend
resale of the products or merchandise sold or handled. For example, NON-RETAIL
COMMERCIAL includes wholesale activities, warehousing, trucking terminals and
similar commercial enterprises.
   NURSING HOME or REST HOME. A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable
persons in which three or more persons not of the immediate family are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter and care for compensation but
not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land used or occupied for the purpose of buying or selling
merchandise stored or displayed out-of-doors prior to sale. Such merchandise
includes, but is not limited to passenger cars, trucks, motor scooters,
motorcycles, boats, monuments, trailers and agricultural equipment
   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area off
public street right-of-way, either within or outside of a building, but in no
event less than 250 square feet
   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS. A criterion established to control noise, odor,
smoke, particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and
explosion hazards, or glare or heat generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A parcel or tract of land, initially under single
ownership or control, which contains two or more principal buildings and one or
more principal uses planned and constructed as a unified development.
   POULTRY TRACTOR. A lightweight, portable poultry coop without a solid floor
that allows the poultry to forage for weeds and insects.
   RECREATION SPACE. Total area in square feet which is countable as open space
but is not paved in streets, walks or driveways and is suitable for
recreational pursuits. The smallest countable recreation area is 1,000 feet.
That part of a recreation area having a dimension of less than 20 feet shall
not be included as countable RECREATION SPACE.
   RELATIVES. Persons standing in the relation of wife and husband, son,
daughter, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, father or
mother, brother, sister, grandchildren or grandparents.
   RETAIL SALES. Sale of any product or merchandise to customers for their own
personal consumption or use, not for resale.
   SETBACK, BUILDING. The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of
a building or structure and the front lot line.
   SERVICE STATION, FILLING STATION, GAS STATION. Any building or premises
whose principal use is the dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of
any motor vehicle fuel or oils. Open storage shall be limited to no more than
four vehicles stored for minor repair. Such storage shall not exceed 72 hours
duration and shall not permit storage of wrecked vehicles for more than five
days.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
for sale on the premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted, or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located, or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual surface of a single face sign. It
does not include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign
and not forming an integral part of the display. A double face or V-type sign
erected on a single supporting structure where the interior angle does not
exceed 135 degrees shall, for the purpose of computing square foot area, be
considered and measured as a single face sign; otherwise each display surface
of a sign shall be considered a single sign.
   SIGNS. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trade marks by which information is made known
and which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association,
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product and which is visible
from any public street, highway or pedestrian way.
   STREETS. A public right-of-way not less than 40 feet wide providing primary
access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change, other than incidental repairs which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girder; or any
substantial change in the roof or exterior walls.
   STRUCTURAL. Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less
permanent location on the ground; or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground. A sign, billboard or other advertising device detached
or projecting shall be construed to be a structure.
   SUPERETTE. Establishment selling grocery and related items with a building
floor area of 3,200 square feet or less.
   TRAILER SPACE. A parcel of land in a travel trailer parking area for the
placement of a single trailer and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle, portable structure built on a chassis and
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or main tamed.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to the principal use and located on the
same premises serving a purpose customarily incidental to the principal use.
Residential accessory uses may include storage of household goods, parking
areas, gardening, servants quarters, private swimming pools and private
emergency shelters.
   USE, AGRICULTURAL. Uses including the growing, harvesting, and storing of
crops including legumes, hay, grain, fruit, and truck or vegetable crops,
floriculture, horticulture, viticulture, mushroom growing, orchards, and
forestry; farm buildings for storing and protecting farm machinery and
equipment from the elements; and farm dwellings occupied by farm owners,
operators, tenants or seasonal or year-round hired farm workers. This
definition of AGRICULTURAL USE includes all types of agricultural operations
but excludes therefrom any animal or poultry husbandry except as otherwise
permitted by this code. AGRICULTURAL USE further excludes industrial operations
such as a grain elevator, canning or slaughterhouse, wherein agricultural
products produced primarily by others are stored or processed. Butchering of a
person’s own poultry for personal consumption may be allowed provided such
butchering is done out of public view on the person’s own property.
   USE, BY SPECIAL PERMIT. Uses of such variable nature as to make control by
rigid pre- regulation impractical. After due consideration in each case, by the
Village Board after receiving the report and recommendations of the Planning
Commission relative to the impact of such use upon neighboring land and of the
public need for the particular use at the particular location and after a
public hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals, such special use may or may
not be granted by the Village Board.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular area
or areas provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and
performance standards, if any, of such area. The main use of land or buildings
as distinguished from a subordinate or accessory use. It may be either a
permitted or special use.
   UTILITIES. Public and private facilities including, but not limited to,
water wells, water and sewage pumping stations, water storage tanks, power and
communication transmission lines, electrical power substations, static
transformer stations, telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio relays
and gas regulation stations, but not including sewage disposal plants,
municipal incinerators, warehouses, shops and storage yards.
   VISION CLEARANCE. An unoccupied triangular space at the corner of a corner
lot which is bounded by the street lines and a setback line connecting points
determined by measurement from the corner of each street line.
   YARD. An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   YARD, CORNER SIDE. A side yard which adjoins a street or thoroughfare.
   YARD, FRONT (STREET YARD). An open unoccupied space of the same lot with a
main building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the
street line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of
the lot.
   YARD, INTERIOR SIDE. A side yard which is located immediately adjacent to
another lot or to an alley separating such side yard from another lot.
   YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
between the rear line of the building and the rear line of the lot and
extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with the building
situated between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from
the front yard to the rear yard Any lot line not a rear line or a front line
shall be deemed a lot line.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2023-10-25A, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 153.008 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of interpreting and administering the chapter, the following
rules shall be used.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular, where the context requires.
   (B)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (C)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (D)   The word “lot” shall include the words “piece”; “parcel” and “tract”;
and the phrase “used” shall include the phrases “arranged for”, “intended for”,
“maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (E)   All measured distance shall be to the nearest integral foot if a
fraction is one-half foot or less, the integral foot next below shall be taken.
   (F)   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their general
accepted meanings in the most recent publication of Webster’s Dictionary.
   (G)   The words and terms set forth herein under “definitions” wherever they
occur in this chapter shall be interpreted as herein defined.
(Ord. passed - -)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.020 JURISDICTION AND COMPLIANCE.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and waters within
the village. All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alterations or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter and all enlargements of or additions to existing
uses occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter
which are applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses or
land shall be located.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.021 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following use restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Principal uses. Only those principal uses specified for a district or
on a planned development plat, their essential services and the following uses
shall be permitted in that district.
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures are
permitted in any district but not until their principal structure is present or
under construction.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit (conditional uses) and
their accessory uses are permitted in areas as specified, but only according to
the procedure set forth in §§
153.115 through
153.122. Also, any development within 500 feet of the existing or proposed
rights-of-way of freeways, expressways, interstate and controlled access
traffic ways and within 1,500 feet of their existing or proposed interchange or
turning lane rights-of-way shall be deemed to be a use by special permit. Such
development shall be specifically reviewed by the Planning Commission as
provided in §§
153.115 through
153.122.
   (D)   Unclassified or unspecified uses. In case of uncertainty where the
Zoning Officer is unable to determine liberally whether a use is permitted as a
principal or accessory use, he or she shall consult the Board of Zoning Appeals
for an interpretation.
   (E)   Temporary uses. Temporary uses such as real estate field offices or
shelters for materials and equipment being used in the construction of a
permanent structure may be permitted by the Zoning Officer through the issuance
of a certificate of zoning compliance for a period not to exceed six months.
This temporary certificate may be renewed semi-annually but in no case shall
the effective span of the certificate exceed two years.
   (F)   Performance standards. Performance standards listed in §§
153.075 through
153.084, and
153.086 shall apply to all uses in all districts.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.022 SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following site restrictions and regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Soil conditions:
      (1)   No land shall be used or structure erected where the land is held
unsuitable for such use or structure by the Village Board by reason of
flooding, concentrated runoff inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock
formation, unfavorable topography, low percolation rate or bearing strength,
erosion susceptibility or any other feature likely to be harmful to the heath,
safety, prosperity, aesthetic and general welfare of the village; and
      (2)   The Village Board in applying the provisions of this section, shall
in writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusion that
the land is not suitable for certain uses. The applicant shall have an
opportunity to present evidence contesting such unsuitability, if he or she so
desires. Thereafter the Village Board may affirm, modify or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   All lots shall abut upon a public thoroughfare.
   (C)   No zoning permit (building permit) shall be issued for a lot that
abuts a public street dedicated to only a portion of its proposed width and
located on that side thereof from which the required dedication has not been
secured.
   (D)   Dimensions of building sites.
      (1)   Lots not served by public sewer: in all districts, lot sizes shall
be based on soil capabilities. The Village Board shall request an opinion of
the County Sanitarian before making judgement on required lot sizes. In no case
shall the lot size be less than those specified as minimum requirements in §
153.025; however, the Village Board may require lots larger than said minimums.
All developments not served by public sewers shall also conform to division (A)
above and the separate regulation entitled “Regulation of Sewage Disposal and
Erection, Construction or Repair of any Septic Tank, Privy Vault, Sink Drain or
Sewage Disposal System within the Limits of Village of Wapella, Illinois”.
      (2)   Lots served by public sewer shall be as specified in §
153.025.
   (E)   Reduction or joint use:
      (1)   No lot, yard, parking area, building area or other space shall be
reduced in area or dimension so as not to meet the provisions of this chapter.
No part of any lot, yard, parking area or other space required for a structure
or use shall be used for any other structure or use; and
      (2)   A lot which does not contain sufficient area to conform to the
dimensional requirements of this chapter for yards, courts, width, depth or
open space may be used for single-family residence purposes, provided the
dimension and area provided for yards, width, depth and open space is within
75% of those required by the terms of this chapter upon issuance of a zoning
permit subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Such use is permitted in the zoning district;
         (b)   Pre-existing sub-standard lots which have been properly plotted
and recorded with the County Recorder shall be allowed to develop without
further variance;
         (c)   The lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands. If
abutting lands and the substandard lot are owned by the same owner, the
substandard lot shall not be sold or used without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter; and
         (d)   Any lot utilizing septic tank filter fields must conform to the
County and State Board of Health standards regulating said development.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.023 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Planning Commission and the Village Board shall continuously develop
their comprehensive plan, including their planning policies to guide future
decisions. All comprehensive plan elements, in whatever degree of detail they
may embody, shall provide the basis for approval of all development under this
chapter, and no development shall be approved under this chapter which is in
conflict with any comprehensive plan elements.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.024 VISION CLEARANCE.
   In each quadrant of every street intersection, there shall be designed a
vision clearance triangle, bounded by the inner street lines and a line
connecting them 35 feet from their intersection. Within this triangle, no
object shall be allowed above the height of two and one-half feet above the
street if it obstructs the view across the triangle.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.025 DISTRICT LOT REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or alter any building within the village
unless the following minimum lot and yard areas and bulk controls are provided
and maintained in connection with such building.
Minimum Lot Requirements by District
       (Min) Area (Max)      (Min) Wid. (Min)                Min Yard  Side-
Dist . (sq ft)    Bldg. Ht.  (ft)       Front (a) (Min) Rear Setback   Corner
                  (ft)                                       Side- Int (ft)
Minimum Lot Requirements by District
       (Min) Area (Max)      (Min) Wid. (Min)                Min Yard  Side-
Dist . (sq ft)    Bldg. Ht.  (ft)       Front (a) (Min) Rear Setback   Corner
                  (ft)                                       Side- Int (ft)
R-1    19,200     35         120        30        30(c)      10        10
R-2    12,800     35         80         20        25(c)      6         10
R-3    12,800     60         80         20        20(c)      6         10
B-1    None(g)    60         None       None      None       None      None
B-2    21,780(f)  35         66         50(e)     20         20        30
I      8,500(f)   None       66         10        30         10        20
Note: See accompanying footnotes:
(a)   Where adjacent structures have front yard setbacks different from those
required, the minimum front yard setback shall be the average setback of such
structures.
(b)   Buildings over one and one-half stories in height shall require five
feet for each additional story in addition to the required minimum side yard.
(c)   Detached residential garages shall have a minimum rear yard of five
feet.
(d)   Multi-family dwellings must also comply with the land use intensity
standards given in §
153.061.
 
(Ord. passed - -)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 153.040 DISTRICTS.
   In order to carry out the purposes of this chapter, the geographic area
within the jurisdiction of this chapter is hereby divided into the following
use districts:
   (A)   R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential;
   (B)   R-2 High Density Single-Family Residential;
   (C)   R-3 Multi-Family District;
   (D)   I General Industrial District;
   (E)   B-1 General Commercial District; and
   (F)   B-2 Highway Commercial District.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.041 ZONING MAP DIRECTORY.
   The certified copy of the zoning map directory will bear on its face the
attestation of the Chairperson of the Village Board and the Village Clerk. It
shall be on file and may be viewed in the office of the Village Clerk. It shall
contain the zoning map for the unincorporated areas of the village and for any
incorporated municipalities which have not adopted their own zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.042 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the
series of maps entitled “Zoning Map Directory, Village of Wapella, Illinois”
dated and which accompanies and is hereby declared to be part of this chapter.
District boundaries shall be construed to follow: corporate limits; village
limits; public highways, alleys, easements and railroad rights-of-way, or such
lines extended; soil mapping unit lines; unless otherwise noted in the zoning
map directory.
   (B)   Vacation of public streets and alleys shall cause the land vacated to
be automatically placed in the same district as the adjoining district. If
vacated street or alley adjoins two different zones, the centerline of the
vacated street or alley shall constitute the zoning district.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.043 ANNEXED TERRITORIES.
   Any land which may be annexed to an incorporated community affected by this
chapter shall be placed in the Rural Development - 2 District until special
action of the Village Board shall definitely assign such land to another
district.
(Ord. passed - -)
DISTRICTS USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.055 R-1 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a low density
residential district is to provide areas for families wishing to live on large
lots in residential neighborhoods within communities.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the low density single-family
residential district are agricultural uses, single-family dwellings and their
accessory structures or uses.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the low density
single-family residential district are cemeteries, churches, golf courses,
governmental and community service buildings and functions, greenways and open
spaces, home occupations, hospitals, libraries, mobile home parks provided they
comply with the mobile home community ordinance of the village (
Chapter 150), playgrounds, public and private schools, pumping stations,
roadside stands for the sale of farm products, single-family planned
residential developments, utility lines and offices and other uses similar to
or customarily incident to any of the above uses.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.056 R-2 HIGH DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a high density
single-family residential district is to protect those residential areas of the
community that were developed in most part prior to World War II from
encroachment from potential conflicting uses and to provide for future
residential and related development and redevelopment.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the high density single-family
residential district are agricultural uses and single-family dwellings and
their accessory structures or uses.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the high density
single-family residential district are the same as permitted by special permit
in the low density single-family residential district.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.057 R-3 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a multi-family
residential district is to provide for the conversion of single-family
structures to multi-family structures in the established portions of the
community where larger two-story homes predominate and to provide new areas for
modern multi-family development.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the multi-family residential
district are: single-family residential uses and two-family detached
residential structures conforming at least to the minimum and maximum
requirements of the high density single-family residential district; multi-
family uses provided they comply with the regulations set forth in this chapter
or lodging room and boarding houses; and agricultural uses.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the multi-family
residential district are cemeteries, churches, golf courses, governmental and
community service buildings functions, greenways, home occupations, hospitals,
libraries, medical and dental clinics, multi-family planned unit developments,
parks, public and private schools, pumping stations, playgrounds, open spaces,
single-family planned residential developments and utility lines.
   (D)   Other requirements.
      (1)   The recreation space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage
of recreation space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less
than 0.16.
      (2)   The floor area ratio, defined as the maximum square footage or
total floor area permitted for each foot of land, is not more than 0.32.
      (3)   The open space ratio, defined as the minimum square footage of open
space required for each square foot of floor area, is not less than 2.0.
      (4)   The living space ratio defined as the minimum square footage of
non-vehicular outdoor space required for each square foot of floor area, is not
less than 1.2.
      (5)   The occupant car ratio, defined as the minimum number of off-street
parking spaces without parking time limits required for each living unit, is
not less than 1.2, except that in housing development projects for the elderly,
this ratio shall not be less than 0.5.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.058 R-4 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a second high-
density single-family residential district is to provide for people who wish to
own a mobile home which is permanently placed on a foundation on a privately
owned lot.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in this high density single-family
residential district are agricultural uses, single-family residences and their
accessory structures or uses, and mobile homes on private lots provided they
are permanently attached to a permanent foundation as specified in the
standards provided by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the mobile home
residential district are the same as permitted by special permit in the low-
density single-family residential district.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.059 B-1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a general
commercial district is to promote development of the existing principal
commercial development in municipalities.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the general commercial district are
agricultural uses, auto sales and service, bakeries, barbershops, bars, beauty
shops, bowling alleys, cafés, catalogue order stores, churches, clothing
stores, cocktail lounges, department stores, drug stores, dry goods stores,
fruit stores, funeral parlors, furniture stores, gift stores, grocery stores,
hardware and feed stores, hotels, insurance and real estate offices, jewelry
stores, motels, music shops, newspapers and magazine publishers, open spaces,
organization headquarters, packaged beverage stores, parking areas, parks,
personal and business service establishments, pet shops, professional offices,
public and private schools, public passenger transportation terminals, radio
station (without antenna), radio and television sales and service, religious
goods stores, restaurants, rooming houses, savings and loan and finance
companies, service garages, shoe stores, sporting goods, taxi stands, theaters,
tobacco and magazine stores, and variety stores.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the general
commercial district are commercial storage, contractor’s offices, garages and
offices, gas stations, governmental service functions, implement sales,
professional laundry and dry cleaning establishments, second-hand stores,
wholesale outlets and other uses similar to or customarily incident to the
above uses.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.060 B-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a highway
commercial district is to provide appropriate areas for commercial
establishments which are oriented to the motoring public or which require large
sites for off-street parking or display of merchandise. Additionally, the
establishment of such district is in recognition of existing uses of this
nature in decentralized locations, due in part to the past and present shortage
of potential commercial sites within the urban centers.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the highway commercial district are
gas stations, automobile sales and service, public garages, drive-in
establishments serving food and beverages for consumption on premises, motels,
drive-in theaters, amusement parks, parking, parks and open spaces, and those
uses permitted in the agricultural district.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the highway
commercial district are other uses similar to or customarily incident to any of
the above uses.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.061 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section in establishing a general
industrial district is to recognize existing industrial development within the
village and the desirability of reserving additional land for possible new,
expanded or relocated industries. It is intended that land zoned for industry
be located such that conflict with incompatible uses would be minimized.
   (B)   Uses permitted. Uses permitted in the general industrial district are
body shops, automotive upholstery; cleaning, pressing and dyeing
establishments; commercial bakeries; commercial greenhouses, distributors, farm
machinery sales and service, feed mills, dairy plants, equipment repairs and
storage, railroad depots, cooperative laboratories, machine shops,
manufacturing and bottling of non-alcoholic beverages, painting, printing,
publishing, storage and sale of lumber, machinery and equipment; trade and
contractor’s offices, warehousing and wholesaling; manufacturing, fabrication,
packing, packaging and assembly of products from furs, glass, leather, metals,
paper, plaster, plastics, textiles and wood; manufacturing, fabrication,
processing, packaging and packing of confections, cosmetics, electrical
appliances, electronic devices and toiletries; freight yards, storage,
breweries, open space and those uses permitted in the agricultural district.
All of the above uses must conform to the regulations set forth in §
153.076.
   (C)   Uses by special permit. Uses by special permit in the General
Industrial District are manufacturing, processing and storage of abrasives,
acetylene, acid alkalies, ammonia, asbestos, asphalt, batteries, bedding,
bleach, bone, foods, candles, carpeting, celluloid, cement, charcoal,
chemicals, chlorine, coal tar, cordage, creosote, dextrine, disinfectant, dye,
excelsior, felt, fuel, furs, glucose, gypsum, hair products, ink, insecticide,
lime products, linoleum, matches, oil cloth, paint, paper, perfume, plaster of
Paris, plastics, poison, potash, pulp, pyroxylin, radium, rope, rubber, seeds,
starch, stove polish, textiles, varnish, building materials, explosives, dry
ice, fat, fertilizer, flammables, gasoline, glue, grains, grease, lard,
radioactive material, shellac, soap, turpentine, vinegar, and yeast; bag
cleaning, bleacheries, canneries, cold storage warehouses, electroplating,
enameling, forges, foundries, lacquering, lithographing, bulk gas storage and
sales, offal, rubbish or animal reduction, oil, coal and bone distillation,
refineries, road test facilities, slaughter houses, smelting, stockyards,
tanneries and weaving. Outside storage and manufacturing areas, wrecking, junk
demolition and scrap yards shall be surrounded by a solid fence or evergreen
planting completely preventing a view from any other property or public right-
of-way and shall be at least 600 feet from residential or commercial
structures. Commercial service facilities, such as restaurants and fueling
stations, are permitted provided all such services are physically and sales-
oriented toward industrial, district uses and employees and other users are
only incidental customers.
(Ord. passed - -)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.075 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all zoning districts unless
specifically stated otherwise. Determination of potential or actual
noncompliance with such special regulations shall be made by the Village Board
or its duly appointed agent.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.076 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residual features. No activity or operation shall be established or
maintained which by reason of its nature or manner of operation will cause the
emission of noise, odor, toxic or noxious fumes, smoke, dust and particulate
matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the public
health, welfare, comfort and safety or cause injury to property or business.
   (B)   Glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area or
sign shall be arranged so as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential property or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare,
whether from flood lights or from high temperature processes such as combustion
or welding, shall not be directed into any adjoining property.
   (C)   Explosives. No activities involving the storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials, goods or products which could decompose by detonation
shall be permitted except such as are specifically licensed by the Village
Board
   (D)   Vibration. No activity or operation shall cause earth vibrations
perceptible beyond the limits of the lot upon which the operation is located
except such as are specifically permitted by the Village Board.
   (E)   Activity within enclosed buildings.
   (F)   Screening. Where outdoor storage of materials, goods and products
exists within the General Industrial District, such storage shall be
effectively screened from adjacent residential districts and public streets by
a solid fence, compact hedge or similar opaque landscaped element. Such
screening shall be placed along property lines or, in the case of screening
along a street, 15 feet from the street right-of-way or adjacent property line
with landscaping between the screening and the pavement. A louvered fence shall
be considered “solid” if it blocks direct vision.
   (G)   Refuse. All waste material, debris, refuse or garbage not disposed of
through the public sanitary sewerage system shall be kept in an enclosed
building or property contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land
free of refuse.
   (H)   Landscaping. In all but the General Commercial and General Industrial
Districts all developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard along all streets.
Such yard shall be kept clear of all structures and storage except off-street
parking. Such yard shall be at least eight feet in depth along all streets,
measured from the street right-of-way. Except for driveways, the yard shall
extend the entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a
corner lot.
   (I)   Drainage. No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted
that results in water run-off; flooding, or erosion on adjacent properties.
Such run-off shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, watercourse,
ponding area or other public facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.077 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of parking spaces required.
      (1)   None required in General Commercial District (to be provided in
common area.)
      (2)   Single-family dwellings: two per dwelling unit. Multi-family units:
1.2 per dwelling unit, except for elderly housing projects which shall have 0.5
spaces per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Churches, auditoriums, mortuaries and other similar places of
assembly: one for every four seats.
      (4)   Sanitariums, convalescent homes, rest homes, nursing homes: one for
four beds.
      (5)   Retail commerce other than in General Commercial District:
restaurant, one for every three seats; other retail, one for every 100 square
feet of retail floor space but in no case less than 1.5 square feet (gross
parking area) to one square foot (gross building floor area).
      (6)   Service commerce other than General Commercial District: motels,
one per unit; personal and professional offices, one for every 150 square feet
of office floor space; other service commerce, one for 200 square feet of gross
floor space.
      (7)   Industrial including wholesale: one for every 1.3 persons of
maximum employment during any work period; and
      (8)   Mobile home parks: two spaces per lot.
   (B)   Minimum size of parking space: 250 square feet of standing and
maneuvering space.
   (C)   Location of parking spaces.
      (1)   Spaces for dwellings: on the same lot as the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Spaces for commercial uses not in the General Commercial District
or for public or semi-public uses: within 300 feet of the main entrance of the
building served.
      (3)   No off-street parking spaces to be located within five feet of any
street right-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage. Off-street parking areas and access ways other
than those for one and two-family dwellings shall be surfaced with a durable
material to control dust and shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface
water.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.078 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum number of off-street loading spaces required. An adequate
number of off-street loading spaces shall be provided for all structures which
require the receipt and distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles so as to assure unrestricted movement of both pedestrians and
motor vehicles throughout the active areas of the village.
   (B)   Minimum size of off-street loading berths.
      (1)   Width, ten feet;
      (2)   Length, 50 feet; and
      (3)   Vertical clearance, 14 feet.
   (C)   Location of off-street loading berths. No closer than 25 feet from the
intersection of two street rights-of-way.
   (D)   Surfacing and drainage. Off-street loading berths and accessways shall
be hard surfaced to control dust and shall be graded to dispose of all surface
water.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.079 SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit required. Except those specified in division (B) below, no
signs shall hereafter be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged, converted or structurally altered without a zoning permit and without
being in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The sign shall also
meet all the structural requirements of other applicable codes and ordinances
of the village and state statutes.
   (B)   Signs excepted. All signs must have a building permit except the
following:
      (1)   Signs over show windows or doors of a nonconforming business
establishment announcing without display or elaboration only the name and
occupation of the proprietor and not to exceed two feet in height and ten feet
in length;
      (2)   Real estate signs not to exceed eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which said signs are
temporarily located;
      (3)   Name, occupation and warning signs not to exceed two square feet
located on the premises;
      (4)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions
not to exceed eight square feet in area located on the premises;
      (5)   Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and affixed flat
against the structure;
      (6)   Official signs such as traffic control, parking restrictions,
information and notices; and
      (7)   Temporary signs when authorized by the Zoning Officer for a period
not to exceed 30 days.
   (C)   Sign permitted. Signs are permitted for all commercial and industrial
uses subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Wall signs placed against the exterior walls of buildings shall not
extend more than six inches outside of a building’s wall surface, shall not
exceed 300 square feet in area for any one premises, and shall not exceed 20
feet in height above the mean centerline street grade.
      (2)   Projecting signs fastened to, suspended from or supported by
structures shall not exceed 100 square feet in area for any one premises; shall
not extend more than six feet into any required yard; shall not extend more
than three feet into any public right-of-way; shall not be less than ten feet
above the sidewalk nor 15 feet above a driveway or an alley.
      (3)   Ground signs shall not exceed 20 feet in height above the main
centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the district in
which they are located and shall not exceed 100 square feet on all sides for
any one premises.
      (4)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof shall
meet all the yard and height requirements for the district in which they are
located and shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any one premises.
      (5)   Combinations of any of the above signs shall meet all the
requirements for the individual sign.
   (D)   Signs specifically prohibited.
      (1)   Signs that display the words “stop” or “danger”; and
      (2)   Signs utilizing flashing lights.
   (E)   Facing. No sign except those permitted in division (B) above shall be
permitted to face a residential use within 100 feet of the lot line.
   (F)   Traffic.
      (1)   Signs shall not resemble, imitate or approximate the shape, size,
form or color of railroad or traffic signs or devices.
      (2)   Signs shall not obstruct or interfere with the effect of railroad
or traffic signs, signals or devices.
      (3)   No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape; and no sign
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape.
      (4)   No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic
visibility.
   (G)   Existing signs. Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter may be continued although the use, size or location
does not conform with the provisions of this chapter; however, it shall be
deemed a nonconforming use or structure and the provisions of §§
153.100 through
153.102 shall apply.
   (H)   Miscellaneous requirements.
      (1)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign or the owner of the
land on which the same is located, shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut, and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which the
sign is located.
      (2)   Any sign or sign structure which may be or may hereafter become
rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the licensee, owner
or manager of the property upon which the sign stands upon written notice of
the Zoning Officer or police officer.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.080 KENNELS, VETERINARY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   They shall be located no closer than 100 feet to any residential
district, restaurant, hotel or motel in any district and shall show that
adequate measures and controls shall be taken to prevent offensive noise and
odor.
   (B)   No incineration of refuse shall be permitted on the premises.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 HOSPITAL, CHURCH OR OTHER RELIGIOUS OR ELEEMOSYNARY INSTITUTIONS.
   Shall be located on a major street on a minimum parcel of one-half acre; or,
shall maintain a ten foot wide minimum landscaped strip on all property fines
abutting residential districts and on all residential streets.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 AMUSEMENT CENTER, BOWLING ALLEY, DANCE HALL AND SIMILAR PLACES OF
AMUSEMENT.
   Shall provide parking, with ingress and egress designed so as to minimize
traffic congestion, shall not be less than 20 feet from any property lines,
provide a minimum six-foot solid board fence or masonry wall separating parking
area from abutting residential property and shall show that adequate controls
or measures will be taken to prevent offensive noise and vibration.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.083 NURSERY SCHOOL, DAYCARE CENTER.
   For more than five children shall maintain a minimum six-foot high solid
board fence combined with a minimum three-foot wide shrub planting area or a
minimum six-foot high masonry wall on any property line abutting a residential
district. A nursery school shall be located only on a minimum 12,800 square
foot lot and shall not develop excessive traffic on local residential streets.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.084 SPECIAL COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   Any commercial development such as boat liveries, supper clubs, taverns,
bait and tackle sales, resorts, hotels, motels and any other commercial
development permitted as a special use in the rural development district shall
not be granted a zoning permit by the Village Board until the following
determinations are made in writing.
   (A)   The development will be appropriately screened from any adjoining road
or property; and
   (B)   Traffic generated lights, noise or hours of operation will not be a
nuisance to opposite or abutting property owners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.085 POULTRY ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Lawful enclosures. Poultry lawfully kept within the village shall be
kept within the fenced area of the rear yard or corner side yard, at all times.
Poultry shall be secured within a hen house during non-daylight hours. Poultry
shall not be allowed in areas without a fence, or in the front or side yards at
any time, except a permit may allow poultry in a corner side yard where the
rear yard is not large enough to accommodate the poultry. Hen houses, as
defined in §
153.007 of this code, shall be kept in a condition conforming to the following
standards:
      (1)   Hen houses shall be kept in a clean, dry, odor-free, neat and
sanitary condition at all times such that they shall not become a nuisance nor
create aesthetic blight.
      (2)   Hen houses shall provide adequate ventilation and adequate sun and
shade and shall be impassable to rodents, wild birds, and predators, including
dogs and cats.
      (3)   Hen houses shall be designed to provide safe and healthy living
conditions for poultry with a minimum area sized appropriately to the bird,
while minimizing adverse impacts to other residents in the neighborhood.
      (4)   Hen houses shall be enclosed on all sides and shall have a roof and
doors. Access doors shall be able to be shut and locked at night. Opening
windows and vents shall be covered with predator- and bird-proof wire of one
inch or smaller openings.
      (5)   The materials used in making a hen house shall be uniform for each
element of the structure such that the walls are made of the same material, the
roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any windows or openings are
constructed using the same materials. Construction of hen houses and poultry
tractors shall be done in a good, workmanlike manner. The use of scape, waste
board, sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited.
      (6)   Hen houses which store poultry feed must be constructed such that
the feed is stored in rodent-proof containers. Uneaten poultry feed shall be
removed in a timely manner.
      (7)   All stored manure shall be covered by a fully enclosed structure
with roof or lid over the entire structure. No more than three cubic feet of
manure shall be stored on the permitted tract of land. All other manure not
used for composting or fertilizing shall be removed. The hen house and
surrounding area shall be kept free from trash and accumulated droppings.
(Ord. 2023-10-25A, passed 10-25-2023)
§ 153.086 MODIFICATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Height. The district height limitations stipulated elsewhere in this
chapter may be exceeded, but such modification shall be in accord with the
following.
      (1)   Architectural projections, such as spires, belfries, parapet walls,
cupolas, domes, flues and chimneys, are exempt from the height limitations of
this chapter.
      (2)   Special structures, such as elevator penthouses, gas tanks, grain
elevators, scenery lofts, radio and television receiving antennas,
manufacturing equipment and necessary mechanical appurtenances, cooling towers,
fire towers, substations, smoke stacks and flag poles are exempt from the
height limitations of this chapter.
      (3)   Essential services, utilities, water towers, electric power and
communication transmission lines are exempt from the height limitations of this
chapter.
      (4)   Communication structures, such as radio and television transmission
and relay towers, aerials and observation towers, shall not exceed in height
three times their distance from the nearest lot line.
      (5)   Public or semi-public facilities, such as schools, churches,
hospitals, monuments, sanitariums, libraries, governmental offices and
stations, may be erected to a height of 60 feet, provided all required yards
are increased not less than one foot for each foot the structure exceeds the
district’s maximum height requirements.
   (B)   Yards. The yard requirements stipulated elsewhere in this chapter may
be modified as follows.
      (1)   Uncovered stairs, landings and fire escapes may project into any
yard but not to exceed six feet and not closer than three feet to any lot line.
      (2)   Architectural projections, such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves,
belt courses and ornaments, may project into any required yard; but such
projection shall not exceed two feet.
      (3)   Residential fences are permitted on property lines but shall not
exceed a height of four feet in the street yard and shall not be closer than
two feet to any public right-of-way.
      (4)   Security fences are permitted on the property lines but shall not
exceed ten feet in height and shall be of an open type similar to chain link or
wrought iron fencing.
      (5)   Accessory uses and detached accessory structures are permitted in
the rear yard only; they shall not be closer than ten feet to the principal
structure, they shall not exceed 15 feet in height, shall not occupy more than
20% of the rear yard area and shall not be closer than five feet to any lot
line nor five feet to an alley line.
      (6)   Essential services, utilities, electric power and communication
transmission lines are exempt from the yard and distance requirements of this
chapter.
      (7)   Landscaping and vegetation are exempt from the yard requirements of
this chapter when not in violation of any state or federal law, statute or
local law.
   (C)   Additions. Additions in the front yards of existing structures shall
not project beyond the average of the existing front yards on the abutting lot
or parcels.
   (D)   Average front yards. The required front yards may be decreased to the
average of the existing front yards of the abutting structures on each side.
   (E)   Noise. Sirens, whistles and bells which are maintained and utilized
solely to serve a public purpose are not to be enjoined under the performance
standards section of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - - ; Ord. 2023-10-25A, passed 10-25-2023)
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 153.100 LAWFUL USE MAY BE CONTINUED.
   The lawful use of any land or building existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter may be continued, even if such does not conform to the
regulations of this chapter, except as provided below.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.101 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Alterations. A nonconforming building or structure shall not be
reconstructed or altered to an extent exceeding its assessed valuation for real
estate tax purposes, unless said building or structure is changed to conform
with the regulations of this chapter.
   (B)   Enlargement. A nonconforming building or structure shall not be added
to or enlarged in any manner unless such additions or enlargements are made so
as to bring said building or structure into conformity with the regulations of
this chapter.
   (C)   Restoration. A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged by
fire or other cause to the extent of more than 50% of its assessed value shall
not be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   Abandonment. A nonconforming use of a building which has been
discontinued for a period of six months shall not be re-established and any
future use shall be in conformity with the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.102 NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDING OR LAND.
   (A)   Extension.
      (1)   A nonconforming use of a building may be extended throughout said
building provided no structural alterations are made therein except as required
by other codes or ordinances.
      (2)   A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or enlarged
except by expressed authority of the Village Board or its designated authority.
   (B)   Relocation. A nonconforming use shall not be moved to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was conducted at the time of passage
of this chapter except by expressed authority of the Village Board or its
designated authority.
(Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.115 ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Village Board may appoint a Zoning Officer(s),
but such appointment shall require the approval of the majority of the members
of the Village Board.
   (B)   The specific duties of the Zoning Officers) shall include:
      (1)   Providing zoning information upon request;
      (2)   Receiving applications for building and occupancy permits,
reviewing such applications to determine if they comply with ordinance
provisions, and issuing or denying permits;
      (3)   Receiving applications for special use permits, variances,
amendments and appeals, referring such applications to the appropriate public
body, notifying affected property owners and the required public hearings and
publishing notice of such hearings;
      (4)   Conducting inspections;
      (5)   Investigating violations; and
      (6)   Keeping the zoning map and text up to date.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.116 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building permit (zoning permit). Hereinafter no person shall erect,
alter, remodel, wreck or move any kind of a structure of building or part
thereof without first securing a building permit therefore, provided no such
permit shall be required for the following:
      (1)   Interior remodeling;
      (2)   Exterior construction, reconstruction or alteration of a building
which does not alter the size, shape or height of said building;
      (3)   Public utility structures; and
      (4)   Any type of structure which is consistent in design or function
with satellite dishes, TV towers, clothesline, basketball goals or other items
which are secured on one’s property permanently or non-permanently, as long as
the use of said structure is consistent with the list stated above. All such
items listed in this division (A)(4); however, must comply with all other
pertinent zoning regulations concerning set back and other requirements, as
determined by the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   Occupancy permit. Hereafter, no new building or addition and no land
whose use has been changed shall be occupied other than for a public utility
use until an occupancy permit has been issued by the Zoning Officer(s). Every
such permit shall state that the new occupancy complies with all provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   Permit fees.
      (1)   (a)   The following building permit fees shall be paid to the
village before any building permit may be issued:
 
Building Permit                                 Fee
Accessory buildings                             $25
Alterations or additions to existing structures $25
Each nonresidential structure                   $25
Residences                                      $25
 
         (b)   Fees for occupancy permits for the use of land other than for
agricultural, residential or public utility purposes shall be $5. No fee shall
be charged for occupancy permits for buildings. Fees are non-refundable.
         (c)   In the event building is begun before a building permit is
issued, fees shall be assessed pursuant to §
153.122.
   (D)   Exhibits. Each application for a building permit and for an occupancy
permit for the use of land shall be accompanied by the following exhibits
unless waived by the Zoning Officer(s):
      (1)   Boundary survey of an area including the property in question and
100 feet beyond its outer boundaries showing existing utilities, lot boundaries
and dimensions, buildings and easements. Foliage, topography, waterways and
soil borings to be included if pertinent; and
      (2)   Plot plan indicating location, size and placement of proposed
structure and yards, parking and loading facilities, vehicular access and
egress and utility plan including surface drainage.
   (E)   Permit application procedure. The procedure for applying for a
building permit and an occupancy permit shall be a follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Officer(s) to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Officer(s).
      (3)   The Zoning Officer(s) shall issue a building permit and collect the
required permit fee if the proposed project complies with the provisions of
this chapter, and other relevant village ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 6-17-1986; Ord. 2014-11-18, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 153.117 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment; concurrent membership. 
      (1)   A Board of Zoning Appeals, herein before and hereafter sometimes
referred to by the term “Zoning Board”, is hereby authorized to be established.
Such Zoning Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the President,
and confirmed by the members of the Village Board. The seven members of the
first Zoning Board appointed following the effective date of this chapter,
shall serve terms as follows: one for one year, one for two years, one for
three years, one for four years and three for five years, the successor to each
member so appointed to serve for a term of five years. Vacancies shall be
filled by the President of the Village Board for the unexpired terms only,
subject to confirmation by the Village Board. The Village Board shall have the
power to remove any member of the Zoning Board for cause, after a public
hearing upon giving ten days' notice thereof. The President of the Village
Board shall name one of the members of the Zoning Board as Chairperson upon his
or her appointment, and in case of vacancy, shall name the Chairperson.
      (2)   Following the effective date of this chapter, the members of the
Zoning Board shall also serve as members of the Planning Commission, and the
Chairperson of the Zoning Board shall also serve as the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission. The resignation, removal or replacement of any member from
the Zoning Board shall be deemed to be a resignation, removal or replacement
from the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Whenever, in the village’s zoning ordinance, action is required of
both the Zoning Board and the Planning Commission (i.e., both bodies must make
a recommendation to the Village Board upon the same matter) duplicative action
need not be taken, provided that legal requirements are met. For example, if it
were required that the Planning Commission consider a matter and forward
recommendations to the Zoning Board for consideration at a public hearing,
following which the Zoning Board makes a recommendation to the Village Board,
the bodies (comprising of the same membership) need only make one
recommendation to the Village Board following a public hearing.
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Zoning Board shall be held at such time and
place within the village as the Zoning Board may determine. Special meetings
may be held at the call of the Chairperson, or as determined by the Board. Such
Chairperson, or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer
oaths and compel attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board
shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the
vote of each member upon every question or, it absent or failing to vote,
indicating such facts and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. Every rate, regulation, every amendment or appeal thereof and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Board shall
immediately be filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record.
Four members of the Zoning Board shall constitute a quorum, and the concurring
vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Zoning Officer in any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation or
modification in such chapter to the Village Board. In the performance of its
duties, the Zoning Board may incur such expenditures as shall be authorized by
the Village Board. The Zoning Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure not
in conflict with the state or this chapter.
   (C)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer. It shall
also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to
pass under this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may
modify of amend the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
to the extent and in the manner that the Zoning Board may decide to be fitting
and proper in the premises and, to that end, the Zoning Board shall also have
all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   When a property owner shows that a strict application of the terms
of this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of buildings or
structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her practical
difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board may in the following
instances only make such variations of the strict application of the terms of
this chapter, as are in harmony with its general purpose and intent when the
Zoning Board is satisfied, under the evidence heard before it, that a granting
of such variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but
is necessary to alleviate some demonstrable hardship so great as to warrant a
variation.
         (a)   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building (but
excluding residences and farm buildings) which has been destroyed or damaged to
an extent of more than 50% of its assessed value by fire or act of God, or the
public enemy, where the Zoning Board shall find some compelling public
necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use, but in no case
shall such a permit be issued if its primary function is for financial gain.
         (b)   To permit the remodeling or expansion of a nonconforming use
where the Board finds public necessity and convenience in the continuance or
expansion of the nonconforming use and that such remodeling or expansion does
not materially affect the other uses in the neighborhood.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Zoning Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning ordinance,
such power and authority being reserved to the Village Board.
      (5)   The Zoning Board may impose such conditions and restrictions upon
the use of the premises benefitted by a variance, as it may deem necessary.
   (D)   Appeals; how taken.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved or any officer, department, board or bureau of
the village may appeal to the Zoning Board to review any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the Zoning Officer, such appeal to be
accompanied by a filing tee of $35 (non-refundable).
      (2)   Such appeal shall be made within 45 days after the date of written
notice of the decision or order to the Zoning Officer and a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Officer shall forthwith transmit to
the Zoning Board all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken and a public hearing scheduled.
      (3)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless Zoning Officer certifies to the Zoning Board, after the
notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts stated
in the permit, a stay would in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than a
restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board, or by a court of
record on application, on notice to the Zoning Officer, and on due cause shown.
      (4)   The Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Upon hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent, or by
attorney.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.118 PLANNING COMMISSION DUTIES IN ZONING ADMINISTRATION; CONCURRENT
MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The duties of the Village Planning Commission in zoning administration
shall be:
      (1)   To review applications for amendments to this chapter, the
Commission shall not have the authority to make changes or amendments to this
chapter; it shall act in a purely advisory manner to the Village Board; and
      (2)   To review applications for special use permits as provided herein.
   (B)   Following the effective date of this chapter, the members of the
Zoning Board shall also serve as members of the Planning Commission. and the
Chairperson of the Zoning Board shall also serve as the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission. The resignation, removal or replacement of any member from
the Zoning Board shall be deemed to be a resignation, removal or replacement
from the Planning Commission. The term of each member of the Planning
Commission serving concurrently on the Zoning Board shall be that term for
which the member is appointed to the Zoning Board pursuant to §
153.117.
   (C)   Whenever, in the village’s zoning ordinance, action is required of
both the Zoning Board and the Planning Commission (i.e., both bodies must make
a recommendation to the Village Board upon the same matter) duplicative action
need not be taken, provided that legal requirements are met. For example, if it
were required that the Planning Commission consider a matter and forward
recommendations to the Zoning Board for consideration at a public hearing
following which the Zoning Board makes a recommendation to the Village Board,
the bodies (comprising of the same membership) need only make one
recommendation to the Village Board following a public hearing.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.119 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variations from the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the
Zoning Board where practical difficulties or unusual hardships in complying
with such provisions are determined to exist, but only after a public hearing
has been duly advertised and held by such Board. The Zoning Board may impose
such restrictions and conditions upon the premises benefitted by a variance as
it considers necessary so that the public health, safety and general welfare
may be secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   Applications for variance shall be accompanied by the boundary survey
and plot plan as required for building permit applications, unless waived by
the Zoning Board.
   (C)   The procedure for applying for a variance from the regulations of this
chapter is as follows.
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Officer to explain his or her situation, learn the procedures and obtain an
application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Officer and shall pay a filing fee
of $300 (non-refundable).
      (3)   The Zoning Officer shall transmit the application to the
Chairperson of the Zoning Board and shall determine with such Chairperson the
time and place of the required public hearing.
      (4)   The Zoning Officer shall give notice of the scheduled public
hearing to all property owners within 250 feet of the outer boundaries of the
property in question; however, failure of any property owner to receive such
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      (5)   The Zoning Officer shall have notice of the scheduled public
hearings published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
15 days before said hearing in conformity with the statutes of the state.
      (6)   The Zoning Board shall hold the public hearing within 45 days of
filing and shall take one of three actions: approval; denial; or conditional
approval.
   (D)   Standards for granting variances. The Zoning Board may vary the
regulations of this chapter when supporting evidence in each specific case
indicates that:
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the specific parcel of land involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of the regulations were to be carried out;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the petition for a variance is based are
unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is sought and not
applicable, generally to other property with the same zoning classification;
      (3)   The purpose of the variance is not based exclusively upon a desire
to increase the value or income potential of the parcel of land;
      (4)   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by the provisions of
this chapter and has not been created by any person presently or formerly
having an interest in the parcel of land;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in the vicinity in which the
parcel of land is located; and/or
      (6)   The proposed variance will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the congestion of the
public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety
or substantially diminish or impair property values within the vicinity.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2014-11-18, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 153.120 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Before a building or premises is devoted to any use classified under
“uses by special permit” in this chapter, a special permit must be granted by
the Village Board following recommendation by the Planning Commission and a
public hearing before the Zoning Board.
   (B)   The following exhibits shall be required unless waived by the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
application; and
      (2)   Petition of property owners within 250 feet of property in question
snowing 50% of such owners favoring the proposal.
   (C)   The procedure for obtaining a special use permit is as follows.
      (1)   In applying for a special use permit, the applicant shall follow
all applicable procedures set forth in §§
153.115 through
153.122.
      (2)   A filing fee of $300 (non-refundable) shall be paid by the
applicant to the Zoning Officer upon making an application.
      (3)   The Zoning Officer shall refer the application to the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall, after careful review of the
application, make a recommendation on each application to the Zoning Board.
      (5)   The Zoning Officer shall give notice of a public hearing according
to state statutes.
      (6)   The Zoning Board and the Planning Commission (comprising of the
same membership), after holding a public hearing in accordance with state
statutes, shall make one recommendation to the Village Board.
      (7)   The Village Board may approve, deny or give conditional approval to
the application. In cases of approval or conditional approval, the Village
Board shall issue written authorization to the Zoning Officer to issue a zoning
permit in full conformance with §§
153.115 through
153.122. This authorization shall remain on permanent file with the application
      (8)   The Village Board may attach special conditions to ensure
conformance with the intent of all comprehensive plan elements and to preserve
the integrity of the zoning district in question.
   (D)   Standards for granting special use permits: a special use permit may
be granted by the Village Board after demonstration by evidence that:
      (1)   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare;
      (2)   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
      (3)   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
in the district;
      (4)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary facilities
have been or will be provided;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress or
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets or
roads; and
      (6)   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (E)   Revocation of special use permits: where a special use permit has been
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, such permit shall become
null and void without further action by the Planning Commission or the Village
Board unless work thereon commences within one year of the date of granting
such special use. A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize only one
particular use and shall expire if that use shall cease for more than 12
consecutive months.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2014-11-18, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 153.121 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. The Village Board may from time to time amend, supplement
or change by ordinance the boundaries of districts, or regulations herein
established.
   (B)   Kinds of amendments. An amendment to this chapter may be one of the
following:
      (1)   A change in a district’s boundary (rezoning);
      (2)   A change in a district’s regulations; or
      (3)   A change in any other provision of this chapter.
   (C)   Initiation of proceedings. Proceedings for amending this chapter shall
be initiated by at least one of the following three methods:
      (1)   By petition of an owner or owners of property which is proposed to
be rezoned or for, which district regulation changes are proposed, such
petitions to be accompanied by a filing fee of $300 (non-refundable);
      (2)   By recommendations of the Planning Commission; or
      (3)   By action of the Village Board.
   (D)   Required exhibits for rezoning or district regulation changes
initiated by property owners.
      (1)   The boundary survey and plot plan as required for building permit
applications; and
      (2)   Petition of property owners within 250 feet of property in question
showing 50% of such owners favoring rezoning.
   (E)   Procedures.
      (1)   Upon any application for a proposed amendment, supplement or change
being properly filed with the Zoning Officer, said Officer shall immediately
cause a copy of same to be forwarded to the members of the Planning Commission
and the members of the Zoning Board.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall make such investigation as provided
by then-rules of procedure. The Planning Commission shall consider such
proposed amendments at its next regularly scheduled monthly meeting provided
that, if 14 days have not elapsed since the above said mailing of such proposed
amendment, it may defer action on it until its next regular monthly meeting. In
determining the 14-day period, the day the letter is mailed shall be excluded,
and the day of the meeting shall be included.
      (3)   The recommendation and report stating reasons for the decision of
the Planning Commission shall be forwarded to the Chairperson of the Zoning
Board and to the Chairperson of the Village Board without delay.
      (4)   Said report of the Planning Commission may be considered by the
Zoning Board in arriving at its decision, whether or not a member of the
Planning Commission appears at the public hearing.
      (5)   The Zoning Board shall forward its report and decision, setting
forth the reasons therefore, to the Chairperson of the Village Board within a
reasonable time after the public hearing.
   (F)   Notice of public hearings for amendments.
      (1)   The Zoning Board shall cause notice of a public hearing to be duly
published, as prescribed by state statute.
      (2)   A hearing shall be held in each township directly affected, except
that in the case of general amendments to the text of the village zoning
ordinance, the hearing shall be held in the Village Hall (or such other place
as may be designated by the Zoning Board).
      (3)   The published notice of a hearing shall be published in a newspaper
qualified to accept legal notices, in general circulation in the area affected.
      (4)   In addition, where a proposed amendment affects a particular area
of the village, notice shall be mailed to all adjacent property owners 15 days
in advance of the hearing.
      (5)   Property owners shall be considered adjacent although they are
separated by a street or road, or it a corner of their land touches, or if
their property is next to a tract of land a portion of which is to be rezoned.
If property is held by a life tenant with contingent remainders or rights in
reversion, in trust, or by more than one person, it shall be sufficient notice,
if notice is sent to the person receiving the tax bills as shown by the records
in the County Treasurer’s office.
      (6)   No proposed amendment shall be defeated because of improperly
mailed notices, if the Zoning Board is satisfied that the applicant has made a
diligent effort to list all property owners in his or her application for the
zoning change.
   (G)   Passage of amendment. 
      (1)   The favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all of the members of
the Village Board shall be necessary to pass an amendment in the following
instances:
         (a)   When a written protest against the proposed amendment is filed
with the Village Clerk, signed and acknowledged by the owner(s) of 20% of the
frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley therefrom, or by the owner
(s) of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be
altered; and
         (b)   When a land affected by a proposed amendment lies within one and
one-half miles of the limits of a zoned municipality and a written protest
against the proposed amendment is passed by the Village Council or President
and Board of Trustees of the zoned municipality with the limits nearest
adjacent, and filed with the Village Clerk.
      (2)   In all other instances except those just above listed, a majority
vote of the members of the Village Board present at the meeting at which the
amendment is considered shall be necessary to pass an amendment.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2014-11-18, passed 11-18-2014)
§ 153.122 FEES.
   All fees are subject to revisions by action of the Village Board.
(Ord. passed - -)
SMALL ELECTRICITY-GENERATING WIND DEVICES FOR SELF-CONSUMPTION
§ 153.135 AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the powers granted and limitations
imposed by the Constitution and laws of the state, including the statutory
authority granted in 65 ILCS 5/11-13-26. Unless otherwise expressly stated
herein, the provisions of this subchapter apply to all property within the
village’s zoning jurisdiction, and within the one and one-half-mile radius
surrounding the village’s zoning jurisdiction. Should any provision contained
in this subchapter conflict with any provision contained elsewhere in the
village’s zoning ordinance or village code, the provisions in this subchapter
shall control as to the regulation of wind energy systems.
(Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.136 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   To establish reasonable and uniform regulations for the location,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of small electricity-
generating wind devices for self-consumption;
   (B)   To assure that any development and production of wind-generated
electricity in and around the village is safe and to minimize any potentially
adverse effects on the community;
   (C)   To promote the supply of sustainable and renewable energy resources,
in support of national, state and local goals; and
   (D)   To facilitate energy cost savings and economic opportunities for
village residents and businesses.
(Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.137 DEFINITIONS.
   To the extent any definition contained in this subchapter conflicts with any
definition or term contained elsewhere in the village’s zoning ordinance or
village code, the definition in this subchapter shall control as to the
regulation of wind energy systems. For the purpose of this subchapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT or ABANDONED. Any small wind energy system (SWES) that has not
been repaired to operational condition within 90 days after falling out of
operational condition.
   AMBIENT SOUND. The all-encompassing sound at a given location, usually a
composite of sounds from many sources near and far. For the purpose of this
chapter, the AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL shall mean the quiescent background level,
that is, the quietest of ten 10-second average sound levels measured when there
are no nearby or distinctly audible sound sources (e.g., dogs, cars in line-of-
sight or jets). Daytime ambient measurements should be made during mid-morning,
weekday hours while nighttime measurements should be made after midnight.
   APPLICANT. The owner, who is in the process of submitting or has submitted
an application to install a SWES project in the village.
   DAYTIME HOURS. The hours of the day from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., local
time.
   NAMEPLATE WATTAGE or NAMEPLATE CAPACITY. The amount of energy produced from
a wind energy system at maximum or optimum wind speeds within one hour, as
indicated by the manufacturer.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. The time of the day after 10:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m., local
time.
   NONPARTICIPATING PROPERTY. A property that is not owned by the owner of the
property on which the SWES is proposed or installed.
   OPERATIONAL CONDITION. SWES facilities being capable of operating at full
capacity while meeting all sound, shadow flicker and other ordinance
provisions, regulations and permit conditions.
   OWNER. The person(s), who hold(s) title of the property on which a SWES or
facility is installed.
   SHADOW FLICKER. The on-and-off strobe light effect caused by the shadow of
moving blades cast by the sun passing above the turbine. SHADOW FLICKER
intensity is defined as the difference or variation in brightness at a given
location in the presence and absence of a shadow.
   SILHOUETTE. The area covered by moving blades of a WES turbine, as viewed
from the front elevation, described in square feet.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (SWES). Wind energy systems that are free-
standing, or structurally attached either onto the roof or to the side of a
building, not exceeding 45 feet in height above the ground.
   SOUND LEVEL. The A-weighted sound pressure level in decibels (dB) (or the C-
weighted level if specified) as measured using a sound level meter that meets
the requirements of a Type 2 or better precision instrument according to ANSI
S1.4. The “average” SOUND LEVEL is time-averaged over a suitable period (e.g.
one-minute) using an integrating sound level meter that meets the requirements
of ANSI S12.43.
   SUN GLINT. The reflection of sunlight off of a surface of the blades, tower
or other component of the wind energy system.
   TOWER. The structure on which the wind system is mounted.
   TURBINE. The parts of a WES including the blades, nacelle and tail.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM (WES). A wind energy production, conversion and
distribution system consisting of a wind turbine, tower and associated
electronics equipment.
(Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.138 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The owner of the SWES project shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the
village and its officials from and against any and all claims, demands, losses,
suits, causes of action, damages, injuries, costs, expenses and liabilities
whatsoever including attorney fees arising out of the acts or omissions of the
owner concerning the operation of the SWES project without limitation, whether
said liability is premised on contract or on tort.
(Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
§ 153.139 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   Zoning districts. One SWES shall be allowed on a lot as a permitted
use in any zoning district within the village, except for residentially-zoned
lots, and within the one and one-half-mile radius of the village, provided that
all building permit requirements and general regulations are met, as provided
in the village code of ordinances, including in this subchapter of the
village’s zoning ordinance. A special use permit shall be required for any
additional SWES on a lot. SWES facilities shall not be a permitted use on
residentially-zoned property.
      (2)   Project proposal. 
         (a)   A permit application shall include the name, address and phone
number of owner and applicant; photographs of the proposed location of the
SWES; a project summary including the manufacturer information and number of
proposed turbines; and a front elevation depiction showing the location and
proposed height of the top of the turbine, including distances related to
setback provisions contained herein.
         (b)   The permit application shall also provide proof of the
following, through documentation such as a guarantee from the manufacturer or
an engineer, or other documentation that reasonably satisfies the Zoning
Officer:
            1.   The SWES is designed to withstand a minimum wind velocity of
100 mph, with an impact pressure of 40 pounds per square foot;
            2.   The SWES conforms to applicable industry standards, including
those of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Applicants shall
submit certificates of design compliance that equipment manufacturers have
obtained from Underwriters Laboratories (UL), National Renewable Energy
Laboratories (NREL), Det Norske Veritas (DNV), Germanischer Lloyd Wind Energie
(GL), or an equivalent third party;
            3.   SWES facilities are equipped with automatic and manual braking
systems;
            4.   Proof of homeowner or business liability insurance, covering
the SWES, as appropriate; and
            5.   Approval letter from the local electric utility company, if
the system is to be tied to the energy grid.
   (B)   Additional installation and use regulations.
      (1)   Installation.
         (a)   SWES facilities must be installed according to manufacturer
specifications.
         (b)   SWES devices may be free-standing or structurally attached
either on the roof or side of a building.
         (c)   Electrical connections must be made by a licensed electrician.
         (d)   SWES facilities may be located on accessory buildings or
structures, provided that all setback and other regulations are satisfied.
      (2)   Height. SWES facilities may extend up to a height of 45 feet above
the ground (at their highest point, including the top of the blade), whether or
not they are mounted on a building. The blade tip, at its lowest point, shall
have a ground clearance of at least ten feet.
      (3)   Sound levels.
         (a)   The average sound level from a SWES shall not exceed 55 dB(A)
during daytime hours or 45 dB(A) during nighttime hours at any point within
neighboring, residentially zoned or used property. For neighboring industrial
properties the sound level limit is 65 dB(A) and for other neighboring
nonresidential properties, the sound level limit is 60 dB(A) at any time of the
day.
         (b)   Sound level meters used for sound measurement must be a Type 2
or better grade per ANSI S1.4 and must have an integrating feature that meets
ANSI S1.43. Procedures must meet the applicable portions of ANSI S12.9.
Measurements must be made when ground level winds do not exceed five mph.
         (c)   The village may require, at the owner’s expense, field tests or
sound propagation modeling, conducted by or supervised by an acoustics
specialist certified by the Institute of Noise Control Engineering as may be
necessary, to determine whether a violation of said sound regulations is
occurring or has occurred. The owner shall be promptly remedy any such
violations or discontinue operation. The village shall have discretion as to
whether to require such a test, and shall not be required to do so simply
because a resident or neighbor requests that it be done.
      (4)   Shadow flicker. The SWES shall be positioned such that shadow
flicker will not fall on any window of an existing residential dwelling of a
nonparticipating property for more than one hour a day. The owner may commit to
a schedule for turning SWES turbines off during periods when shadow flicker
would so affect any nonparticipating property. Subsequently constructed or
modified residences shall not compromise the existing approval and operation of
the SWES, as a legal nonconforming use, subject to the applicable regulations.
      (5)   Silhouette. The diameter of the SWES shall not exceed 20% of the
width of the building’s front elevation for property abutting residentially
used properties.
      (6)   Color and sun glint. SWES facilities shall be finished in a neutral
color, as approved by the Zoning Officer. The finish shall be flat or matte, so
as to reduce incidence of sun glint. The required coloration and finish shall
be maintained throughout the life of the system.
      (7)   Electronic interference. SWES facilities shall not operate so as to
cause electromagnetic degradation in performance of microwave, television,
radio, internet or other wireless transmissions, including public emergency
communications systems, contrary to Federal Communication Commission (FCC) or
other state or local laws.
      (8)   Signage. No SWES may have any advertising material, writing,
picture, flags, decorations or signage, other than warning information or
manufacturer identification.
      (9)   Energy production. The primary purpose of the SWES shall be the
production of energy for local distribution and consumption. SWES facilities
shall not be constructed for the sole purpose of energy production for
wholesale or retail sale purposes. It is permissible to sell excess energy that
is produced by a SWES to the local electric utility company.
      (10)   Setbacks. All parts of the structure of the SWES shall be set back
a distance equal to or exceeding 1.1 times the height of the SWES, as measured
from its base (where mounted) and extending to the furthest point of the SWES,
whether such extension is vertical, horizontal or diagonal, from all adjacent
property lines, road rights-of-way, transmission lines and communication
towers.
   (C)   Maintenance and decommissioning.
      (1)   Maintenance. SWES facilities shall be maintained in operational
condition at all times, except for reasonable maintenance and repair outages.
Should a SWES fall from operational condition, or should any part of the SWES
become damaged, or should a SWES violate a permit condition or this subchapter,
the owner shall cease operations immediately and remedy the condition promptly.
      (2)   Decommissioning.
         (a)   If a SWES has not been in operable condition and has been
abandoned as defined by this chapter, the village’s Zoning Officer shall notify
the owner of the finding of abandonment. The owner shall remove all SWES
structures within 90 days of receipt of the finding of abandonment.
         (b)   If such abandoned facility is not removed within 90 days, the
village may remove all structures at the owner’s expense. In the case of such
removal, the village has the right to file a lien against the property for
reimbursement, following reasonable notice to the owner, to pay for the removal
of the facility(ies). Any and all expenses incurred by the village as part of
this effort, which include without limitation, facility removal costs,
attorney’s fees, accrued interest and recording costs may be sought after by
the village.
         (c)   Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its original pre-
construction condition. See photos presented with project proposal.
   (D)   Historic districts and landmarks. SWES facilities within a local
historic district or landmark, a state historic district or landmark or a
national historic district or landmark must receive a recommendation from the
Planning Commission and approval by the Village Board prior to any permit being
issued for said facility(ies). Approval letters from state or nationally
recognized historic preservation agencies may be required.
(Ord. 2012-216, passed 2-16-2012)
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§  153.150 INTENT.
   The intent of this section regarding wind energy conversion systems is to:
   (A)   Provide regulations for the construction and operation of wind energy
conversion systems in the village and within the one and one-half mile radius
surrounding the zoning jurisdiction of the village;
   (B)   Provide regulations to facilitate the development of wind energy
conversion systems, while protecting adjacent land uses from adverse noise,
visual, and other negative impacts that may be associated with a wind energy
conversion system;
   (C)   Facilitate the development of low impact, sustainable energy sources
within the village and its jurisdiction; and
   (D)   Exercise regulatory authority pursuant to the authority grant by the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-13-26).
(Ord. 3-20-18, passed 3-20-2018)
§  153.151 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIAMETER, ROTOR. The length of any rotor, or blade, as measured from the tip
of the rotor to the center or the turbine multiplied by two.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION. Any area which is:
      (1)   Located outside, but within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits of the village; and
      (2)   Is not located within the subdivision jurisdiction of another
municipality.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or EXTRATERRITORIAL WECS. Any
WECS which is or may be located within the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   FACILITY OWNER. Any person or entity having an equity interest in a WECS.
   INSTITUTIONAL USE. An educational facility, golf course, sports arena,
religious institution, athletic field or publicly-owned property, provided
that, said term shall exclude parks and cemeteries whether publicly- or
privately-owned.
   OPERATOR. Any person or entity responsible for the day-to-day operation and
maintenance of a WECS.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED PROPERTY. Land, buildings or structures owned by any
governmental body or public agency including village, county, state or
federally-owned properties, other than public rights-of-way.
   SHADOW FLICKER. The moving shadows or shaded areas which are cast by
rotating turbine blades.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or SMALL WECS. Any wind energy
conversion system consisting of a single wind turbine having a maximum
generating capacity of 100 kw, which is intended to generate energy for any
contiguous property primarily for the use or consumption on that property, and
not to exceed 45 feet in height. Small wind energy conversion systems are
regulated pursuant to §§ 153.135 through 153.139 of this chapter.
   TOWER, MONOPOLE. A wind energy conversion system tower consisting of a
single pole, constructed without guy wires and anchors.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION STRUCTURE or WIND TURBINE. A device that converts
wind energy into electricity through the use of either a horizontal or vertical
axis wind turbine generator, and includes the nacelle, rotor, tower and pad
transformer, if any.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or WECS. An electric general facility, whose
main purpose is to supply wind-generated electricity, consisting of one or more
wind turbines and other accessory structures and buildings, including
substations, meteorological towers, electrical infrastructure, transmission
lines and other appurtenance structures and facilities. (Excluded are small
wind energy conversion systems regulated under §§ 153.135 through 153.139 of
this chapter).
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED. A wind energy conversion
system located on a building.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM HEIGHT. The height of a freestanding wind
energy conversion system must be measured at a distance from the ground level
to the highest point on the tower, including the vertical length of any
extension such as the rotor blade. The height of a building mounted wind energy
conversion system shall be measured as the distance from the point where the
base of the system is attached to the building or to the lowest point in the
wind energy conversion system, whichever is closer to the ground, to the
highest point on the wind energy conversion system, including the vertical
length of any extensions such as the rotor blade.
   WIND FARM. Any wind energy conversion system other than a small wind energy
conversion system as defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-20-18, passed 3-20-2018)
§  153.152 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to meeting any other applicable requirements in this chapter,
wind energy conversion systems shall be constructed in accordance with the
restrictions set forth in this section.
   (A)   Wind energy conversion structure height and rotor blade diameter
restrictions. The height of a wind energy conversion structure and the diameter
of the motor blade shall not exceed the following restrictions for various uses
and zoning districts. The height of a wind energy conversion structure shall be
measured from ground level to the top of the highest point extended.
      (1)   For residential zoning districts, the maximum height of a wind
energy conversion structure shall not exceed 100 feet. The maximum diameter, as
measured from the tip of the rotor or blade to the center of the turbine,
multiplied by two, shall not exceed 50 feet.
      (2)   For any use that is located in a non-residential district and
located within 1,000 feet of the boundary of a lot zoned or planned for
residential land use, the maximum height of a wind energy conversion structure
shall be 100 feet and the maximum diameter of the rotors or the blades shall be
50 feet. For any use that is located in a non-residential district and more
than 1,000 feet away from any boundary of a lot zoned or planned for
residential use, the maximum height of a wind energy conversion structure shall
be 175 feet. The maximum diameter of the rotors or the blades for wind energy
conversion systems shall not exceed 100 feet.
      (3)   Building-mounted wind energy conversion systems in residential
zoning districts shall not exceed ten feet higher than the highest point on the
roof of the structure it is mounted to.
   (B)   Setback requirements for wind energy conversion structures. The
minimum setback from the property line for any wind energy conversion structure
shall be the total height of said structure measured from ground level.
   (C)   Noise. No wind energy conversion system or combination of wind energy
conversion systems on a single parcel shall create noise that exceeds the
regulatory standards set by the Illinois EPA Pollution Control Board at any
property line where the property on which the wind energy conversion system is
located. Measurement of sound levels shall not be adjusted for, or averaged
with, non-operating periods. Any wind energy conversion system exceeding this
level shall immediately cease operation upon notification by the Mayor or
Mayor’s designee and may not resume operation until the noise levels have been
reduced in compliance with the required standards and verified by an
independent third party inspector.
   (D)   Multiple wind systems.
      (1)   Multiple wind systems may be allowed if they meet all regulations
as required in this section.
      (2)   The number of wind turbines on any given parcel of land shall be
limited to:
         (a)   Three wind conversion structures for parcels of land having an
area of five acres or less;
         (b)   Five wind energy conversion structures for parcels of land
having an area greater than five acres and not exceeding ten acres; and
         (c)   There shall be no limit to the number of wind energy conversion
structures for parcels of land having an area greater than ten acres.
      (3)   There shall be no limit to the number of wind energy conversion
structures for parcels of land having an area greater than ten acres.
   (E)   Force wind standards. Wind energy conversion systems must be
engineered to withstand wind forces of up to 110 miles per hour.
   (F)   Removal of nuisance wind systems or turbines.
      (1)   The wind energy conversion system or individual turbine is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance if it has been inoperable to generate any
electricity for 180 or more consecutive days.
      (2)   Upon receipt of written notice from the Mayor or Mayor’s designee
that a wind energy conversion system or individual wind turbine has become a
public nuisance as defined in subsection (1) above, the owner of a wind energy
conversion system and associated facilities shall have 180 days to restore the
wind energy conversion system or individual turbine to operating condition and
operation for the generation of electricity or remove it from the property,
provided that in the event the Mayor or Mayor’s designee determines that,
because of its condition, the WECS or individual turbine poses a great and
immediate threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, then the village may
remove the structure(s) that specifically pose such a great and immediate
threat without any prior notice to said owner, assess the owner for all costs
incurred for said removal and file a lien for said costs in the manner provided
herein.
      (3)   A written notice of public nuisance described herein may be
personally delivered to the owner or authorized agent of the WECS in question,
or delivered by first class U.S. mail. A written notice delivered by first
class U.S. mail shall be deemed received by said owner three business days
after its deposit in the U.S. mail system.
      (4)   The failure of any owner to comply with the requirements to either
restore to operation or remove a public nuisance WECS or individual turbine as
provided herein shall be deemed a violation of this Zoning Code and shall be
deemed implied consent by said owner to the village to all the village to
remove, or hire someone else to remove said wind system or individual turbine,
as the case may be, and to charge said owner for the entire cost of said
removal. Said cost of removal incurred by the village shall be deemed a lien
against the property and the village shall be authorized to file a notice of
said line in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds for the cost of removing the
wind energy conversion system. Removal of a wind energy conversion system that
constitutes a public nuisance shall include removal of the turbines, and any
above ground improvements, including fencing.
      (5)   The village may foreclose upon any lien for removal costs as
provided herein in accordance with the procedures for foreclosure of a mortgage
in the Illinois Mortgage Foreclosure Law, 735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq.
   (G)   Signage. Commercial marking, messages, banners, or signs of any kind
on the wind energy conversion system or tower shall be prohibited.
   (H)   Tower access. The tower shall not be accessible for climbing. No rungs
shall be provided for the first 12 feet of the tower, the climbing apparatus
shall be covered, and any other approved preventative measures, which may be
applicable.
   (I)   Color. The exterior color of the wind energy conversion system shall
be limited to black, white, off-white and gray and the surface shall be non-
reflective.
   (J)   Lighting. No lights shall be installed on the tower, unless required
to meet FAA regulations.
   (K)   Permit for extra-territorial wind energy conversion systems. An
application to site and construct an extraterritorial WECS shall be considered
by the village in the same manner as if the applicant had submitted an
application for the placement of a WECS within the corporate limits of the
village. The applicant, facility owner, operator and any participating
landowner with respect to any approved application for an extraterritorial WECS
shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this code and any approving
ordinance or resolution in the same fashion and to the same extent as if the
WECS were located within the corporate limits of the village.
   (L)   Shadow flicker.
      (1)   Wind conversion energy systems shall be designed and located to
minimize shadow flicker. Shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a
residential structure shall be acceptable under the following circumstances:
         (a)   The flicker, assuming sunlight will not be obscured by cloud
cover during the entire course of the year, will not fall on the location of
concern for more than 30 hours per year; and
         (b)   With regards to flicker falling on roadways, the traffic volumes
are less than 500 vehicles per day on the roadway.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide a show flicker model for any wind
energy conversion system over 150 feet tall. The shadow flicker model shall
demonstrate that the wind energy conversion system meets the stated provisions.
   (M)   Vibrations. The wind energy conversion structure shall not cause any
vibrations detectible by persons without the aid of scientific instruments on
any adjacent property.
   (N)   Tower type. In residential districts, the type of tower a wind turbine
may be mounted on shall be restricted to a monopole tower.
   (O)   Minimum ground clearance. The blade tip of a wind energy conversion
system, at its lowest point, shall have a ground clearance of no less than 20
feet.
   (P)   Electromagnetic interference.
      (1)   The wind energy conversion system shall not cause any
electromagnetic interference with any radio, television, microwave
communication or satellite navigation on other properties.
      (2)   If the wind energy conversion system is found to cause
electromagnetic interferences on other properties, the owner shall make any
necessary and reasonable changes to the wind energy conversion system within 90
days of notice from the Zoning Administrator, including removal or relocation
of the wind energy conversion system to eliminate any electromagnetic
interference.
   (Q)   Proposed wind energy conversion systems.
      (1)   All proposed wind energy conversion systems which exceed 45 feet in
height shall be required to submit a special use permit application in
compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   The proposed special use permit shall meet the following findings
of fact:
         (a)   The proposed wind energy conversion system is designed, located,
and proposed to be operated so that it will not be unreasonably injurious or
unreasonably detrimental to the district in which it may be located or
otherwise injurious to the public welfare. It shall be the applicant’s burden
to submit evidence to demonstrate the anticipated impacts of the proposed wind
energy conversion system.
         (b)   Other than height regulations in this subchapter, the proposed
use conforms to all the applicable regulations and standards of the district in
which it shall be located.
         (c)   The proposed use is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   The issuance of a special use permit for a wind energy conversion
system shall only be allowed in the I-1 General Industrial Zoning District or
extraterritorial jurisdiction. A special use permit for a wind energy
conversion system may be permitted in the extraterritorial jurisdiction only in
areas that are 1,500 feet away from any residential land use or areas planned
for residential land uses by the village future land use map in the
Comprehensive Plan and its subsequent amendments and updates.
      (4)   The applicant shall submit the following documentation as part of
the special use permit application:
         (a)   A noise study, prepared by a qualified professional,
demonstrates that except for intermittent episodes, the wind energy conversion
system shall not emit noise in excess of the limits established by the State
Pollution Control Board.
         (b)   A description and map of the project’s noise producing features,
including the range of noise levels expects and the basis of the expectation.
         (c)   A description and map of the noise sensitive environment,
including any sensitive noise receptors, such as, residences, hospitals,
libraries, schools, places of worship, parks, area with outdoor workers and
other facilities, where quiet is important or where noise could be a nuisance
within 1,000 feet.
         (d)   A description and map of the cumulative noise impacts of any
problem area identified.
         (e)   A description of the project’s proposed noise control features
and specific measures proposed to mitigate noise impacts for sensitive
receptors as identified above to a level of insignificance.
         (f)   A shadow flicker model that demonstrates that shadow flicker
shall not fall on, or in, any existing residential structure and that
establishes that shadow flicker expected to fall on a roadway or a portion of a
residentially-zoned parcel may be acceptable if the flicker does not exceed 30
hours per year at the location of concern; and the flicker will fall more than
100 feet from an existing residence; or the traffic volumes are less than 500
vehicles on the roadway that is impacted by the flicker. The shadow flicker
model shall:
            1.   Map and describe within a 1,000-foot radius of the proposed
dispersed wind energy system the topography, existing residences and location
of their windows, locations of other structures, wind speeds and directions,
existing vegetation and roadways. The model shall represent the most probable
scenarios of wind constancy, sunshine constancy and wind directions and speed;
            2.   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker caused by the
proposed project and the expected durations of the flicker at these locations,
calculate the total number of houses per year of flicker at all locations; and
            3.   Identify problem areas where shadow flicker will interfere
with existing of future residences and roadways and describe proposed
mitigation measures, including, but not limited to, a change in citing of the
wind energy conversion system, a change in the operation of the wind energy
conversion system, or grading or landscaping mitigation measures.
(Ord. 3-20-18, passed 3-20-2018)
§  153.153 PERMIT APPLICATION FEE.
   The permit application fee of $100 is hereby established and payable to the
village for each wind turbine to be erected within the zoning jurisdiction of
the village.
(Ord. 3-20-18, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction thereof to a fine
of not more than $200, or imprisonment of not more than six months for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   REZONING
      
IV.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
Res. 18-9-18      9-18-2018   Agreement with Area Disposal Service, Inc. for
                              waste collection services
Res. 2019-7-2B    7-2-2019    Agreement with LOCis for credit card and payment
                              services
Res. 2019-7-2C    7-2-2019    Intergovernmental agreement with the County of
                              DeWitt for animal control services
Res. 7-2-19C      7-2-2019    Agreement with the county for animal control
                              services (revised)
                              Intergovernmental agreement with the University
Res. 2020-6-16    6-16-2020   of Illinois for placement of Mahomet Aquifer
                              Monitoring well on village property
Res. 2024-10-16-D 10-16-2024  Simple IRA plan with Roth option; adoption
                              agreement and contributions agreement
                             
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1-2002   1-15-2002   Grants non-exclusive franchise to Mediacom for cable
                     services
2007-320 3-20-2007   Grants franchise for electric utility system to Illinois
                     Power Company
2013-07  7-16-2013   Grants franchise for gas utility system to Ameren Illinois
                     Company
                    
 
TABLE III: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2007-9   9-19-2006   Classifies Lots 1 through 9 of Walnut Circle Addition as I
                     Industrial
3-20-18  3-20-2018   Rezoning 601 North Chestnut to R-1 Low Density Single-
                     Family Residential District
3-20-18  3-20-2018   Rezoning 100 South Fourth Street to B-1 General Commercial
                     District
                    
 
TABLE IV: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
2024-8-21 8-21-2024   Annexing property commonly known as 9500 Thorps Road
                      (Potini property).
                     
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1975 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section               Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11             10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28             10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29             10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                10.04
5 ILCS 120/2.05            30.04
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.   10.02
5 ILCS 430 et seq.         33.06
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.     31.008,
                           33.09
5 ILCS 430/5-15            31.008
5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40   31.008
5 ILCS 430/50-5            31.008
                           31.008 ,
5 ILCS 430/70-5            33.06,
                           33.07
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)         31.008
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)         31.008
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.    34.25
50 ILCS 105/4.1            31.015
50 ILCS 345/25             31.068
55 ILCS 5/5-1092           150.002,
                           150.005
60 ILCS 1/30-130           150.002,
                           150.005
65 ILCS 5                  10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2            10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1            10.99,  
                           151.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1          10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-90        31.025
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5         31.012
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-120       31.012
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-25        31.012
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2           34.21
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12         151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-2          33.51
65 ILCS 5/11-13-26         153.135,
                           153.150
65 ILCS 5/11-20-5          91.02
65 ILCS 5/11-20-7          92.08
65 ILCS 5/11-20-8          92.08
65 ILCS 5/11-20-12         92.08
65 ILCS 5/11-20-13         92.08
65 ILCS 5/11-20-15         92.25
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2          151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8          151.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2          151.01
                           91.02,
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3          150.002,
                           150.005
65 ILCS 5/11-60-2          91.02
65 ILCS 5/11-80-18         95.075
65 ILCS 5/11-80-19         95.075
210 ILCS 115               150.001
210 ILCS 117               150.002
210 ILCS 120               150.002
210 ILCS 125               150.002
220 ILCS 5/21-201(v)       53.02
220 ILCS 5/21-401          53.02
220 ILCS 5/22-501          113.02
220 ILCS 5/22-501(r)(1)    113.02
220 ILCS 5/22-501(s)       113.02
220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.      53.16
220 ILCS 65/4              53.05
225 ILCS 225               150.002
225 ILCS 305               150.002
225 ILCS 320               150.002
225 ILCS 325               150.002
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.   32.30
230 ILCS 15/6              32.30
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.      110.31,
                           111.21
235 ILCS 5                 111.02
235 ILCS 5/1-3 - 1-3.29    111.01
425 ILCS 60                150.002
505 ILCS 100/1 et seq.     92.08
525 ILCS 10/1 et seq.      92.08
605 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.   53.02
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8         73.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188           10.02
625 ILCS 5/4-203           150.002,
                           150.005
625 ILCS 5/12-201          70.67
625 ILCS 5/12-602.1        73.01
625 ILCS 5/12-709          70.67
735 ILCS 5/8-701           30.04
735 ILCS 5/15-1101 et seq. 153.152
765 ILCS 745               150.002
805 ILCS 5                 111.23
820 ILCS 130/4             32.01
                           
 
REFERENCES TO 1975 CODE
1975 Code Section 2019 Code Section
1975 Code Section 2019 Code Section
1-101             33.01
1-102             33.02
1-103             33.03
1-104             33.04
1-105             33.05
1-106             33.06
1-107             33.07
1-109             33.09
2-101             30.01
2-102             30.02
2-103             30.03
2-104             30.04
2-105             30.05
2-106             30.06
2-107             30.07
3-101             31.080
3-102             31.081
3-103             31.082
3-104             31.083
3-105             31.084
3-106             31.085
4-101             31.100
4-102             31.101
4-103             31.102
4-104             31.103
4-105             31.104
4-106             31.105
4-107             31.106
4-108             31.107
4-109             31.108
4-110             31.109
4-111             31.110
4-112             31.111
4-113             31.112
4-114             31.113
4-115             31.114
4-116             31.115
5-101             33.20
5-102             33.21
5-103             33.22
6-101             33.35
6-102             33.36
7-101             31.025
7-102             31.026
7-103             31.027
7-104             31.028
7-105             31.029
7-106             31.030
7-107             31.031
7-108             31.032
7-109             31.033
7-110             31.034
7-111             31.035
7-112             31.036
7-113             31.037
7-114             31.038
7-115             31.039
8-101             31.050
8-102             31.051
8-103             31.052
8-104             31.053
8-105             31.054
8-106             31.055
8-107             31.056
8-108             31.057
8-109             31.058
8-110             31.059
8-111             31.060
8-112             31.061
8-113             31.062
8-114             31.063
8-115             31.064
8-116             31.065
8-117             31.066
8-118             31.067
9-101             31.013
9-102             31.013
9-103             31.013
9-104             31.013
10-102            31.003,
                  31.004
10-103            31.005
10-104            31.006
10-105            31.007
11-101            31.001
12-101            71.01
12-102            71.02
12-103            71.03
12-104            71.04
12-105            71.99
13-101            95.001
13-102            95.002
13-103            95.003
13-104            95.004
13-105            95.005
13-106            95.006
13-107            95.007
13-108            95.008
13-109            95.009
13-110            95.010
13-111            95.011
13-112            95.012
13-113            95.013
13-114            95.014
13-115            95.015
13-116            95.016
13-118            95.017
13-119            95.018
13-120            95.019
13-121            95
                  .999
14-101            95.060
14-102            95.061
14-103            95.062
14-104            95.063
14-105            95
                  .999
15-101            95.035
15-102            95.036
15-103            95.037
15-104            95.038
15-105            95.039
15-106            95.040
15-107            95.041
15-108            95.042
15-109            95.043
15-110            95.044
15-111            95.045
15-112            95.046
15-113            95.999
16-101            93.01
16-102            93.02
16-103            93.03
16-104            93.04
16-105            93.05
16-106            93.06
16-107            93.07
16-108            93.08
16-109            93.09
16-110            93.99
18-101            52.01
18-102            52.02
18-103            52.03
18-104            52.04
18-105            52.05
18-106            52.06
18-107            52.99
19-101            32.15
19-102            32.16
19-103            32.17
19-104            32.18
19-105            32.19
19-106            32.20
19-107            32.21
19-108            32.22
19-109            32.23
19-110            32.24
19-111            32.25
19-112            32.26
19-113            32.27
19-114            32.28
19-115            32.29
19-116            32.99
20-101            70.01
20-102            70.02
20-103            70.03
20-104            70.04
20-105            70.05
20-106            70.06
20-107            70.07
20-108            70.08
20-109            70.09
20-110            70.10
20-111            70.11
20-112            70.12
20-113            70.13
20-114            70.14
20-115            70.15
20-116            70.16
20-117            70.17
20-118            70.18
20-119            70.19
20-120            70.20
20-121            70.21
20-122            70.22
20-123            70.23
20-124            70.24
20-125            70.25
20-126            70.26
20-127            70.27
20-128            70.28
20-129            70.29
20-130            70.30
20-131            70.31
20-132            70.32
20-133            70.33
20-134            70.34
20-135            70.35
20-136            70.36
20-137            70.37
20-138            70.38
20-139            70.39
20-140            70.40
20-141            70.41
20-142            70.42
20-143            70.43
20-144            70.44
20-145            70.45
20-146            70.46
20-147            70.47
20-148            70.48
20-149            70.49
20-150            70.50
20-151            70.51
20-152            70.52
20-153            70.53
20-154            70.54
20-155            70.55
20-156            70.56
20-157            70.57
20-158            70.58
20-159            70.59
20-160            70.60
20-161            70.61
20-162            70.62
20-163            70.63
20-164            70.64
20-165            70.65
20-166            70.66
20-167            70.67
20-168            70.99
21-108            130.01
21-111            130.02
21-112            130.03
21-113            130.04
21-114            130.05
21-115            130.06
21-117            130.07
21-118            130.08
21-120            130.09
21-121            130.10
21-122            130.11
21-123            130.12
21-125            130.16
21-126            130.17
21-127            130.18
21-128            130.19
21-130            130.20
21-131            130.21
21-133            130.99
21-133            130.22
21-134            130.23
21-135            130.24
21-136            130.25
21-137            130.26
21-138            130.27
21-139            130.28
21-140            130.29
21-141            130.30
22-101            111.01
22-102            111.02
22-103            111.03
22-104            111.04
22-105            111.05
22-106            111.06
22-107            111.07
22-108            111.08
22-109            111.09
22-110            111.10
22-111            111.11
22-112            111.12
22-113            111.13
22-114            111.14
22-115            111.15
22-116            111.16
22-117            111.17
22-118            111.18
22-119            111.19
22-120            111.20
22-121            111.21
22-122            111.22
22-123            111.23
22-124            111.24
22-125            111.25
22-126            111.26
22-127            111.27
22-128            111.28
22-129            111.29
22-130            111.30
22-131            111.31
22-132            111.32
22-133            111.33
22-134            111.34
22-135            111.35
22-136            111.99
23-101            110.01
23-102            110.02
23-103            110.03
23-104            110.04
23-107            110.05
23-108            110.06
23-109            110.07
23-112            110.08
23-113            110.99
23A-101           114.01
23A-102           114.02
23A-103           114.03
23A-104           114.04
23A-105           114.05
23A-106           114.06
23A-107           114.07
23A-108           114.08
23A-109           114.09
23A-110           114.10
23A-111           114.11
23A-112           114.12
23A-113           114.13
23A-114           114.14
24-101            110.25
24-102            110.26
24-103            110.27
24-104            110.28
24-105            110.29
24-106            110.30
24-107            110.99
25-107            110.45
25-108            110.99
27-101            112.01
27-102            112.02
27-103            112.03
27-104            112.04
27-105            112.99
27-106            112.15
27-107            112.16
27-108            112.17
27-109            112.18
27-110            112.19
27-111            112.20
27-112            112.99
27-113            112.35
27-114            112.36
27-115            112.37
27-116            112.99
27-117            112.99
27-118            112.50
27-119            112.51
27-120            112.52
27-121            112.53
29-101            131.01
29-102            131.02
29-103            131.03
29-104            131.04
29-105            131.99
30-101            50.01
30-102            50.02
30-103            50.03
30-104            50.04
30-105            50.05
30-106            50.06
30-107            50.07
30-108            50.08
30-109            50.09
30-110            50.99
31-112            90.06
31-113            90.07
31-114            90.08
31-120            90.99
32-101            51.01
32-102            51.02
32-103            51.03
32-104            51.04
32-105            51.05
32-106            51.06
32-107            51.07
32-108            51.08
32-109            51.09
32-110            51.10
32-111            51.11
32-112            51.12
32-113            51.13
32-114            51.14
32-115            51.15
32-116            51.16
32-117            51.17
32-118            51.18
32-119            51.19
32-120            51.20
32-121            51.21
32-122            51.22
32-123            51.23
32-124            51.24
32-125            51.25
32-126            51.26
32-127            51.27
32-128            51.28
32-129            51.29
32-130            51.30
32-131            51.31
32-132            51.32
32-133            51.33
32-134            51.99
32-135            50.10
33-101            152.01
33-102            152.02
33-103            152.03
33-104            152.04
33-105            152.05
33-106            152.06
33-107            152.07
33-108            152.08
33-109            152.09
33-110            152.10
33-111            152.11
33-112            152.12
33-113            152.13
33-114            152.99
33-115            152.14
34-108            10.18
34-109            10.19
35-10             150.001
35-20             150.002
35-101            150.020
35-102            150.021
35-103            150.022
35-130            150.023
35-140            150.024
35-150            150.025
35-160            150.026
35-200            150.040
35-210            150.041
35-220            150.042
35-230            150.043
35-240            150.044
35-250            150.045
35-260            150.046
35-270            150.047
35-280            150.048
35-290            150.049
35-300            150.050
35-310            150.051
35-320            150.052
35-330            150.053
35-340            150.054
35-350            150.055
35-360            150.056
35-370            150.057
35-380            150.058
35-390            150.059
35-400            150.070
35-410            150.071
35-420            150.072
35-430            150.073
35-500            150.085
35-510            150.086
35-520            150.087
35-530            150.088
35-600            150.999
35-Ill.           150.003
35-App B          150.004
35-App C          150.005
35-Table A        150.006
35-Table B        150.007
35-Table C        150.008
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
–          9-20-2005   32.03
10-15        12-15-2015  34.02
18-9-18      9-18-2018   TSO, Table I
2019-7-2B    7-2-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-7-2C    7-2-2019    TSO, Table I
2019-18-04   4-18-2019   TSO, Table I
2020-6-16    6-16-2020   TSO, Table I
2024-10-16-D 10-16-2024  TSO, Table I
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
–          - -         32.04
–          - -         113.15 -
                         113.18
                         153.001 -
                         153.008,
                         153.020 -
                         153.025,
                         153.040 -
                         153.043,
                         153.055 -
–          - -         153.061,
                         153.075 -
                         153.084,
                         153.086 
                         153.100 -
                         153.102,
                         153.115 -
                         153.122,
                         153.999
–          6-17-1986   153.116
                         72.01 -
–          6-19-1991   72.04,
                         72.99
32-135       4-15-1997   50.10
                         33.06 ,
99-          6-15-1999   33.07,  
                         33.09
–          12-21-1999  34.01
1-2002       1-15-2002   TSO, Table II
2003-10      9-16-2003   34.25
                         94.01 -
2003-11-1    11-18-2003  94.08,
                         94.99
2003-11-2    11-18-2003  112.51
2003-11-4    11-18-2003  70.67
–          5-18-2004   31.008
2007-9       9-19-2006   TSO, Table III
2007-320     3-20-2007   TSO, Table II
                         151.01 -
2007-9       9-18-2007   151.13,
                         151.99
2008-6       6-18-2008   91.01 
2009-3a      3-17-2009   31.012
2009-9a      3-17-2009   31.011
2009-3B      3-18-2009   95.075 -
                         95.078
09-10d       10-27-2009  31.080 -
                         31.085
09-10e       10-27-2009  31.009,
                         31.010
09-11d       11-7-2009   31.039
09-11b       11-18-2009  31.067
2010-1       1-26-2010   31.080
2010-2       2-16-2010   30.08
10-5         3-16-2010   111.02
10-14        3-16-2010   70.67
11-1         1-18-2011   32.01
11-2         1-18-2011   30.04
11-3         1-18-2011   31.102
11-4         5-17-2011   30.09
719-11a      7-19-2011   32.02
719-11b      7-19-2011   31.038
2011-1115    11-15-2011  33.50,
                         33.51
                         153.117,
2012-216     2-16-2012   153.118,
                         153.135 -
                         153.139
2012-619a    6-19-2012   110.31,
                         111.21
2013-07      7-16-2013   TSO, Table II
8-19-2014    8-19-2014   92.20 -
                         92.22
                         153.116,
2014-11-18   11-18-2014  153.119,
                         153.120,
                         153.121
2015-04-21   - -         31.001
2015-08-18   8-18-2015   51.01
10-20-2015   10-20-2015  111.29
                         34.15 -
2015-12-15   12-15-2015  34.22,
                         34.99
2016-2-16    2-16-2016   51.05,
                         51.22
2016-9-20    9-20-2016   32.30,
                         32.99
2016-11-15-1 11-15-2016  113.15 -
                         113.18
2016-11-15-2 11-15-2016  113.01 -
                         113.03
2016-11-22   11-22-2016  31.002
2017-19-12   12-19-2017  31.014
2018-30-1    1-30-2018   51.07
3-20-18      3-20-2018   TSO, Table III
3-20-18      3-20-2018   TSO, Table III
3-20-18      3-20-2018   153.150 -
                         153.153
2018-3-20    3-20-2018   31.002
4-17-2018    4-17-2018   32.05
2018-29-5    5-29-2018   32.06
6-19-2018A   6-19-2018   32.07
6-19-2018B   6-19-2018   51.07
2018-08-18   10-30-2018  51.01
2018-10-30   10-30-2018  51.01
2019-4-18A   4-18-2019   130.99
2019-7-2A    7-2-2019    31.068
                         31.026,
2019-10-1    10-1-2019   31.080,
                         31.100,
                         33.35
2020-01-21   1-21-2020   111.29
2020-02-18   2-18-2020   31.014
2020-4-28A   4-28-2020   30.08
2020-9-28    9-28-2020   31.001
                         92.01 -
2020-10-20B  10-20-2020  92.08,
                         92.25,
                         92.99
2021-1-19    1-19-2021   30.08
                         31.026,
2021-03-16   3-16-2021   31.080,
                         31.100,
                         33.35
2021-4-20    4-20-2021   30.02
2021-06-16   6-16-2021   111.35
2021-8-25    8-25-2021   31.015
2021-10-20   10-20-2021  50.10
2022-03-30   3-30-2022   31.001
2022-6-15    6-15-2022   Adopting Ordinance
2022-7-20    7-20-2022   52.03
2022-9-28A   9-28-2022   91.01 -
                         91.03
                         130.02,
                         130.13,
2022-11-16A  11-16-2022  130.14,
                         130.15,
                         130.30,
                         130.99
2022-11-16B  11-16-2022  51.01
                         50.10,
2022-12-21A  12-21-2022  51.01,
                         51.04
                         91.01,
                         91.02,
                         92.01,
2022-12-21B  12-21-2022  92.02,
                         92.05,
                         92.08,
                         92.25,
                         92.99
                         110.01,
                         110.02,
                         110.04,
                         110.05,
                         110.06,
                         110.08,
                         110.45,
2022-12-21C  12-21-2022  110.99,
                         113.02,
                         113.15 -
                         113.18,
                         114.01,
                         114.02,
                         114.11,
                         114.14
                         150.002,
                         150.004,
                         150.005,
                         150.021,
2022-12-21D  12-21-2022  150.022,
                         150.024,
                         150.025,
                         150.026,
                         150.049,
                         150.070
                         30.03,
                         30.04,
                         31.002,
                         31.012,
2022-12-21E  12-21-2022  31.025,
                         31.026,
                         31.050,
                         33.06,
                         33.07,
                         33.09
                         53.01 -
2023-04-19   4-19-2023   53.22,
                         53.99
2023-6-21A   6-21-2023   111.04
2023-6-21B   6-21-2023   31.002
                         150.001 -
                         150.008,
                         150.020 -
                         150.026,
                         150.040 -
2023-7-19A   7-19-2023   150.059 ,
                         150.070 -
                         150.073,
                         150.085 -
                         150.088,
                         150.999
2023-7-19-B  7-19-2023   33.07
2023-8-16    8-16-2023   31.002
                         130.22,
2023-10-25A  10-25-2023  150.007,
                         150.085,
                         150.086
2023-10-25B  10-25-2023  92.08
2024-03-20-A 3-20-2024   73.01,
                         73.99
2024-7-31    7-31-2024   130.22A,
                         130.99
2024-8-21    8-21-2024   TSO, Table IV
2024-9-18-A  9-18-2024   71.05,
                         71.99
2024-10-16B  10-16-2024  31.025
2024-10-16C  10-16-2024  31.001
                        
 
