WASHBURN, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Local Legislation Ord. No. 16-06, passed September 2, 2016
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Washburn shall be designated as
the Code of Washburn, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT.  A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD.  Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the village.
   CODE.  The Municipal Code of Washburn and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY.  The County of Woodford and/or the County of Marshall, State of
Illinois.
   EMPLOYEES.  Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Washburn”.
   FEE.  A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession, or occupation.
   KNOWINGLY.  A knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act or omission
within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge of the
unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE.  The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession, or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR.  Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
   NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, and NEGLIGENTLY.  Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
   NUISANCE.  Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE.  Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS.  Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Washburn”.
   OPERATOR.  The person who is in charge of any operation, business, or
profession.
   OWNER.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON.  Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government, or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right, or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER.  As used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or
things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE.  Unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the State of Illinois.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places, and sidewalks.
   TENANT.  Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Washburn, Counties of Woodford and Marshall, State
of Illinois.
   VILLAGE PRESIDENT.  The President of the village may be referred to as
“Mayor” or “President” of the Village of Washburn.
   WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER.  As used in this code, unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles, or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY.  When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, to injure another,
or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING.  May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(1977 Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President
and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are re-adopted as a new code of ordinances by
the Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. Such references
shall also include the designee or agent of any such officer or office, unless
the law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed, from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to such technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
      (2)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
         Statutory reference:
            Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted of a violation of
any section or provision of this code shall be fined a sum between $25 and $500
for any one offense and the person may be confined in the county jail for a
period of not more than six months, or be both so fined and imprisoned.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code
any license previously issued him or her by the village may be revoked by the
court or by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   (1)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to
every section of this code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which
is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
      (2)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer
may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this section shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
   (E)   All actions to recover any fine or to enforce any penalty, under any
ordinance of the village, shall be brought in the corporate name of the Village
of Washburn, as plaintiff; and no prosecution, recovery, or acquittal for the
violation of any such ordinance shall constitute a defense to any other
prosecution of the same party for any other violation of such ordinance,
although the different causes of action existed at the same time, and, if
united, would not have exceeded the jurisdiction of the court or proper village
officer.
(1977 Code, §§ 1-4)  (Ord. 7, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Corporate boundaries
   
11.02   Corporate seal
§ 11.01  CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate limits and boundaries of the village shall include all
territory heretofore incorporated in the village or annexed thereto by
appropriate legal proceeding.
(1977 Code, § 1-10-1)
§ 11.02  CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The seal heretofore provided and used by the village, which is in
circular form, with the words, “Corporation Seal”, transversely across the
interior circle, and the words, “The Village of Washburn, Illinois”, in the
outer circle, shall be, and the same is hereby declared and established to be,
the seal of the village; and shall be used as such seal in all cases when by
law or ordinance, it is necessary to use a seal.
   (B)   The said seal shall be and remain in the custody of the Village Clerk
and his or her successor in office.
(1977 Code, §§ 1-12)  (Ord. 9, passed - -)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.  VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   EMPLOYEE POLICIES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
President and Board of Trustees
   
30.01   President and Trustees; qualifications, duties
   
30.02   Meetings; attendances
   
30.03   Voting
   
30.04   Record of proceedings
   
30.05   Record of closed meetings
   
30.06   Ordinances
   
30.07   Fiscal year
   
30.08   Rules and order of business
Officers and Employees
   
30.20   Officers; general provisions
   
30.21   Oath; bond
   
30.22   Certificate of election; possession of officer
   
30.23   Administer oath
   
30.24   Vacancy in office
   
30.25   Compensation
   
30.26   Failure to perform duties
   
30.27   Public works laborers, wages
Village Clerk
   
30.40   Meetings
   
30.41   New business; finances
   
30.42   Ordinance record
   
30.43   Committees
   
30.44   Corporate seal
   
30.45   Annual report
   
30.46   Water use statements
   
30.47   Deputy Clerk
Village Treasurer
   
30.60   Receipt/distribution of funds
   
30.61   Record keeping
   
30.62   Receipt of distribution
   
30.63   Monthly accounting
   
30.64   Maintenance of funds
   
30.65   Annual accounting
PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01  PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES; QUALIFICATIONS, DUTIES.
   (A)   The chief executive officer of the village shall be the President, who
shall have the qualifications required in §§
30.20 through
30.27, and who shall hold his or her office for the term of four years and
until his or her successor is elected and qualified. During a temporary absence
or disability of the President, the Board of Trustees may elect one of its
members to act as President Pro Tem who, during such absence or disability,
shall possess the powers of President.
   (B)   (1)   The President may exercise, within the village limits, the power
conferred upon the Sheriff to suppress disorder and keep the peace.
      (2)   He or she shall perform all such duties as are or may be prescribed
by law or by the provisions of this code, and shall take care that the laws and
ordinances are faithfully executed.
      (3)   He or she shall have power at all times to examine and inspect the
books, records, and papers of any agent, employee, or officer of the village.
      (4)   He or she shall, annually and from time to time, give the Board of
Trustees information relative to the affairs of the village and shall recommend
for its consideration such measures as he or she may deem expedient.
   (C)   A Board of Trustees shall be elected, consisting of six members who
shall have the qualifications required in §§
30.20 through
30.27, who shall hold his or her office for the term of four years. Three
Trustees shall be elected in the election year in which a President of the
village is elected and three Trustees shall be elected two years following the
election of the President of the village. In the event there is a vacancy in
the office of Trustee, the President shall appoint an individual who shall have
the qualifications required in §§
30.20 through
30.27 to fill out the term of that Trustee.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -; Ord. passed 1-11-1993)
§ 30.02  MEETINGS; ATTENDANCES.
   (A)   Meeting place. All meetings of the Village Board shall be held at the
Village Hail in the village.
   (B)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Monday
of each month at 7:00 p.m. Adjourned meetings may be held for the purpose of
completing unfinished business at such time or times as may be determined by
the Board.
   (C)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings may be called by the President, or by any three
Trustees, by leaving with the Village Clerk a call in writing, in which call
shall be stated the time of holding such special meeting and the purpose for
which it is called. The Clerk shall immediately issue a written notice of such
meeting and deliver it to the Trustees.
      (2)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting except such
as is mentioned in the notice calling the same, and no prior vote of the Board
shall be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless at such special
meeting there be present as large a number of Trustees as were present when
such vote was taken.
   (D)   Closed meetings.
      (1)   As authorized by § 2(C) of the Open Meetings Act, 5 ILCS 120/2(C),
the Board may hold a closed meeting to consider any of the following subjects:
         (a)   The appointment, employment, compensation, discipline,
performance, or dismissal of specific employees of the public body or legal
counsel for the public body, including hearing testimony on a complaint lodged
against an employee of the public body or against legal counsel for the public
body to determine its validity;
         (b)   Collective negotiating matters between the public body and its
employees or their representatives, or deliberations concerning salary
schedules for one or more classes of employees;
         (c)   The selection of a person to fill a public office, as defined in
this Act, including a vacancy in a public office, when the public body is given
power to appoint under law or ordinance, or the discipline, performance or
removal of the occupant of a public office, when the public body is given power
to remove the occupant under law or ordinance;
         (d)   The purchase or lease of real property for the use of the
Village, including meetings held for the purpose of discussing whether a
particular parcel should be acquired;
         (e)   The setting of a price for sale or lease of property owned by
the public body;
         (f)   The sale or purchase of securities, investments, or investment
contracts;
         (g)   Security procedures and the use of personnel and equipment to
respond to an actual, a threatened, or a reasonably potential danger to the
safety of employees, the public, or public property;
         (h)   Litigation, when an action against, affecting or on behalf of
the particular public body has been filed and is pending before a court or
administrative tribunal, or when the public body finds that an action is
probable or imminent, in which case the basis for the finding shall be recorded
and entered into the minutes of the closed meeting;
         (i)   The establishment of reserves or settlement of claims as
provided in the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity
Act, 745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq., if otherwise the disposition of a claim or
potential claim might be prejudiced, or the review or discussion of claims,
loss or risk management information, records, data, advice or communications
from or with respect to any insurer of the public body or any intergovernmental
risk management association or self insurance pool of which the public body is
a member;
         (j)   Correspondence and records that may not be disclosed under
Section 11-9 of the Illinois Public Aid Code, 305 ILCS 5/11-9, or that pertain
to appeals under Section 11-8 of the Illinois Public Aid Code, 305 ILCS 5/11-8;
         (k)   Meetings between internal or external auditors and governmental
audit committees, finance committees, and their equivalents, when the
discussion involves internal control weaknesses, identification of potential
fraud risk areas, known or suspected frauds, and fraud interviews conducted in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards; or
         (l)   Discussion of minutes of meetings lawfully closed under this
division, whether for purposes of approval by the body of the minutes or semi-
annual review of the minutes.
      (2)   Final action. No final action may be taken at a closed meeting.
Final action shall be conducted at an open meeting preceded by a public recital
of the nature of the matter being considered and other information that will
inform the public of the business being conducted.
   (E)   Public notice.
      (1)   Annual notice of meetings.
         (a)   The Village Clerk shall give public notice of the schedule of
regular meetings at the beginning of each fiscal year and shall state the
regular dates, times, and places of such meetings.
         (b)   The notice of an annual schedule of meetings shall be placed on
the village's website and remain on the website until a new public notice of
the schedule of regular meetings is approved.
         (c)   If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten-days'
notice of such shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the area in which such body functions.
      (2)   Agendas.
         (a)   An agenda for each regular meeting shall be posted at the
Village Hall at least 48 hours in advance of the holding of the meeting and on
the village's website.
         (b)   The agenda posted on the website shall remain there until the
regular meeting is concluded.
         (c)   Any agenda required under this Section shall set forth the
general subject matter of any resolution or ordinance that will be the subject
of final action at the meeting.
         (d)   The requirement of a regular meeting agenda shall not preclude
the consideration of items not specifically set forth in the agenda.
         (e)   The Village Clerk shall ensure that at least one copy of any
requested notice and agenda for the meeting is continuously available for
public review during the entire 48-hour period preceding the meeting. Posting
of the notice and agenda on the village's website satisfies the requirement for
continuous posting.
      (3)   Notice of special meetings. Public notice of any special meeting
except a meeting held in the event of a bona fide emergency, or of any
rescheduled regular meeting, or of any reconvened meeting, shall be given at
least 48 hours before such meeting, which notice shall also include the agenda
for the special, rescheduled, or reconvened meeting, but the validity of any
action taken by the public body which is germane to a subject on the agenda
shall not be affected by other errors or omissions in the agenda.
      (4)   Reconvened meetings. The requirement of public notice of reconvened
meetings does not apply to any case where the meeting was open to the public
and it is to be reconvened within 24 hours, or an announcement of the time and
place of the reconvened meeting was made at the original meeting and there is
no change in the agenda.
      (5)   Emergency meetings. Notice of an emergency meeting shall be given
as soon as practicable, but in any event prior to the holding of such meeting,
to any news medium which has filed an annual request for notice.
      (6)   News media notice.  The Village Clerk shall supply copies of the
notice of its regular meetings, and of the notice of any special, emergency,
rescheduled or reconvened meeting, to any news medium that has filed an annual
request for such notice. Any such news medium shall also be given the same
notice of all special, emergency, rescheduled or reconvened meetings in the
same manner as is given to members of the Board provided such news medium has
given the public body an address or telephone number within the territorial
jurisdiction of the public body at which such notice may be given.
   (F)   Quorum. A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum
to do business. A quorum of members of the Board must be physically present at
the location of an open meeting in order to transact business.
   (G)   President. The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board,
but shall not vote except in case of a tie, when he or she shall give the
deciding vote.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-2)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.03  VOTING.
   (A)   In all cases when questions shall come before the Board for its action
in such manner as to require a vote, any member who shall refuse to vote, shall
be considered as having voted in the negative and his or her vote shall be so
recorded, unless such member shall be directly and personally interested in the
question to be voted upon.
   (B)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances,
on all propositions to create any liability against the village or for
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the
request of any member, which shall be entered on the journal of its
proceedings; and the concurrence of a majority of all members elected shall be
necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or proposition.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-3)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.04  RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The Board shall keep a journal of its own proceedings.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-4)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.05  RECORD OF CLOSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   A verbatim record of all closed meetings of the village shall be kept
in the form of an audio recording. The village shall provide the recording
device and only one recording device will be allowed. Individuals shall not be
allowed to bring their own recording device to closed meetings.
   (B)   The Village Clerk, or his or her designee if he or she is unavailable,
will be responsible for operating the recording device for all closed meetings
of the Board of Trustees. Each committee of the Board of Trustees shall
designate in writing the individual responsible for recording closed meetings
and submit such designation to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall maintain the audio tapes in a safe and secure
location under lock and key. Access to non-released tapes shall be limited to
the Village President, Clerk, Treasurer, and legal counsel unless otherwise
directed in writing by the governing body of the village. Individuals allowed
access shall sign a log indicating the date and time they listened to a
particular tape. Individuals allowed access shall listen to a tape only under
supervision. No copies of any non-released tape shall be made.
   (D)   The verbatim record of a closed meeting may be destroyed 18 months
after the completion of the meeting if the Board of Trustees approves the
destruction of the particular recording and if it approves written minutes for
the particular closed meeting that contain the following, as required by § 2.06
of the Open Meetings Act:
      (1)   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
      (2)   The members of the public body recorded as either present or
absent; and
      (3)   A summary of discussion on all matters proposed, deliberated, or
decided, and a record of any votes taken.
(Res. R-04-02, passed 4-12-2004)
§ 30.06  ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances or parts of ordinances shall be passed only after they have
been read at length before the President and Board of Trustees, and upon motion
to approve and adopt. The Clerk shall then call the roll of the Trustees and
record the vote of each Trustee, which vote shall be taken by yeas and nays,
and shall be entered on the journal of the proceedings of the Village Board.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-5)  (Ord. 17, passed - -)
§ 30.07  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on May 1 of each calendar year.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-6)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.08  RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Meetings of the Village Board shall be conducted according to the 11th
Editionof  Robert’s Rules of Order, Newly Revised.
   (B)   The Board shall have the following standing committees:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Streets, Alleys, and Sidewalks;
      (3)   Water;
      (4)   Police; and
      (5)   Recreation.
   (C)   All other committees shall be appointed by the President unless
otherwise ordered by a vote of the Board.
(1977 Code, § 1-5-7)
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20  OFFICERS; GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   With the exception of the position of Treasurer, no person shall be
eligible to any office in the village who is not a qualified elector of the
village and who has not resided therein at least one year preceding his or her
election or appointment, and no person who is a defaulter to the village shall
be eligible to any office in the village.
   (B)   The President and Board of Trustees shall annually at the first
regular meeting appoint a Village Treasurer, a Superintendent of Water and
Streets, the Village Attorney, the Village Chief of Police, the Village Dog
Catcher, and the Village Zoning Officer.
   (C)   No President, Trustee, Village Clerk, or Treasurer shall hold any
other office under the village government during his or her term of office.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -; Ord. 06-12, passed 11-13-2006)
§ 30.21  OATH; BOND.
   (A)   All officers of the village, whether elected or appointed, shall,
before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe
to the following oath or affirmation:
      I do solemnly swear (or affirm, as the case may be) that I will support
the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
________________ of the Village of Washburn according to the best of my
ability.
   (B)   Which oath or affirmation shall be filed in the office of the Village
Clerk and copied upon the records of the village.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-2)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.22  CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION; POSSESSION OF OFFICER.
   (A)   After taking oath and before entering upon the duties of the offices,
all village officers, including the President, Trustees, and Clerk, shall be
commissioned by warrant under the corporate seal, signed by the President and
attested by the Clerk. The President shall issue a certificate of election
under the corporation seal to the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person holding the warrant of certificate of election or
appointment to any office as provided in division (A) above shall, pending a
contest to such office, be entitled to the possession of such office and all
books, papers and property, and effects of every kind and character belonging
or appertaining to the same.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-3)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.23  ADMINISTER OATH.
   The President and Village Clerk shall have power to administer oath and
affirmation upon all lawful occasions.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-4)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.24  VACANCY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   Elective office shall become vacant on the happening of either of the
following events before the expiration of the term of the person holding such
office:
      (1)   The death of the incumbent;
      (2)   His or her resignation;
      (3)   His or her becoming insane;
      (4)   His or her ceasing to be an inhabitant of the village;
      (5)   His or her conviction of an felony or of any offense involving a
violation of his or her official oath;
      (6)   His or her removal from office;
      (7)   His or her refusal or neglect to take his or her oath, or to
deposit or file such oath or bond within the time prescribed by law; or
      (8)   The decision of a competent tribunal declaring his or her election
void.
   (B)   Any officer or employee appointed under any of the provisions of this
code may, by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees, be removed at any time
for incompetency, neglect, or violation of duty.
   (C)   Every officer or employee of the village shall, upon his or her
removal or expiration of his or her term of office, deliver to his or her
successor, within five days after demand, all books, papers, documents, or
other property belonging to the village pertaining to his or her office.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-5)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.25  COMPENSATION.
   The fee, salary, or compensation of no village officer who is elected or
appointed for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished during
such term. The compensation of all other village employees shall be established
by the Board.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-6)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.26  FAILURE TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   Any officer of the village who shall violate any of the provisions of this
subchapter, shall willfully refuse to perform any of the duties of his or her
office, or who shall be guilty of misfeasance or malfeasance in office shall be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-7)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.27  PUBLIC WORKS LABORERS, WAGES.
   (A)   To the extent and as required by the Prevailing Wage Act, being 820
ILCS 130/0.01 et seq., as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this
locality for laborers, mechanics, and other workmen engaged in the construction
of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the village is hereby
ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction
work in the Woodford County and Marshall County areas. The Village Trustees
pass a resolution each June regarding the prevailing wage and submit that
resolution to the Secretary of State and Department of Labor. The definition of
any terms appearing in this section which are also used in the aforesaid act
shall be the same as in said act.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid act.
   (C)   The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination of
such prevailing rate of wage.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any
employer, to any association of employers, and to any person or association of
employees who have filed or file their names and addresses requesting copies of
any determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of
workmen whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this section
with both the Secretary of State of the state and with the state’s Department
of Labor.
(1977 Code, § 1-6-8)  (Ord. 75-8, passed 11-10-1975)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 30.40  MEETINGS.
   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Trustees and
keep a correct record of all the proceedings of the same in a suitable book
kept for that purpose. He or she shall keep the corporate seal, provided under
the direction of the Board of Trustees, and all books, papers, and documents
belonging to the village, not belonging to some other officer.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.41  NEW BUSINESS; FINANCES.
   He or she shall notify all committees appointed by the President or Board of
Trustees of their appointment and of the business referred to them. He or she
shall keep a correct account between the village and Village Treasurer,
charging him or her with all moneys received by him or her, as exhibited to
said Clerk by the duplicate receipts, and credit him or her with all moneys
paid out by order of the President and Board of Trustees, and shall allow him
or her such other credits as he or she may be entitled to by law and the
provisions of this code.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.42  ORDINANCE RECORD.
   (A)   He or she shall record, in a book to be kept for that purpose, all
ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees, and at the foot of each ordinance
so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of the date of passage and of
the publication of the same; which said memorandum shall be in the following
form, as near as the circumstances will permit:
   STATE OF ILLINOIS,      )
   WOODFORD COUNTY,   ) ss.
   VILLAGE OF WASHBURN,   )
   I,____________, Village Clerk of the Village of Washburn, do hereby certify
that I am the keeper of the records and ordinances of the Village, and that the
foregoing ordinance entitled_________, was duly passed by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village on the ____ day of__________, A.D.______, and
was duly approved by the President of the Village, on the ____ day
of__________, A.D.______, and that the same was afterwards, on the ____day
of__________, A.D._______, duly published in the Village of Washburn, in a
newspaper called the___________, published in the Village of Washburn
aforesaid.
   Witness my hand and the Seal of the Village this _____ day of___________,
A.D.______.
   (SEAL)                                 _________________ Village Clerk.
   (B)   All ordinances of this village imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment, or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, shall:
      (1)   Be printed or published in book or pamphlet form, published by
authority of the corporate authorities; or
      (2)   Be published at least once, within 30 days after passage, in one or
more newspapers published in the municipality, or if no newspaper is published
therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
municipality.
         (a)   If there is an error in printing, the publishing requirement of
this 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4 shall be satisfied if those portions of the ordinance that
were erroneously printed are republished, correctly, within 30 days after the
original publication that contained the error. The fact that an error occurred
in publication shall not affect the effective date of the ordinance so
published. If the error in printing is not corrected within 30 days after the
date of the original publication that contained the error, as provided in the
preceding sentence, the Village Trustees may by ordinance declare the ordinance
that was erroneously published to be nevertheless valid and in effect no sooner
than the tenth day after the date of the original publication, notwithstanding
the error in publication, and shall order the original ordinance to be
published once more within 30 days after the passage of the validating
ordinance.
         (b)   An annual appropriation ordinance adopted under 65 ILCS 5/8-2-
9 shall take effect upon passage, but no other ordinance described in this
division shall take effect until ten days after it is so published, except that
an ordinance imposing a municipal retailers' occupation tax adopted under 65
ILCS 5/8-11-1, or a Tourism, Convention and Other Special Events Promotion Tax
adopted under 65 ILCS 5/8-3-13, or effecting a change in the rate thereof shall
take effect on the first day of the month next following the expiration of the
30-day publication period.
         (c)   However, ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the
construction of buildings or any part thereof, or for the development or
operation of camps accommodating persons in house trailers, house cars, cabins
or tents, where such rules and regulations have been previously printed in book
or pamphlet form, may by their terms provide for the adoption of such rules and
regulations or portions thereof by reference thereto without further printing,
or publication, if not less than one copy of such rules and regulations in book
or pamphlet form has been filed in the office of the clerk of the municipality
for use and examination by the public at least 30 days prior to the adoption
thereof.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.43  COMMITTEES.
   He or she shall keep a list of all committees appointed and of the business
referred to them respectively, and shall note when the committees report and
the date and nature of their report.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.44  CORPORATE SEAL.
   He or she shall attest all deeds, contracts, and leases made by the
President and Board of Trustees, and in conjunction with the President, sign
all ordinances, bonds, licenses, and orders on the Village Treasurer, and affix
the corporate seal thereto, and perform such other duties as may be required by
law and the Board.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.45  ANNUAL REPORT.
   He or she shall immediately, upon the receipt of the Treasurer’s annual
report, cause the same to be published in some newspaper published in the
village, if there is no newspaper published in the village, he or she shall
post a copy of the report in a public place in his or her office.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 30.46  WATER USE STATEMENTS.
   He or she shall, upon receipt from the Water Sewer Clerk/Treasurer of the
water meter readings, issue statements to the water consumers of the amount
owed by them as evidenced by the meter reading. He or she shall collect all
water rents and shall keep an account of all revenues received by him or her.
(1977 Code, § 1-7-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
§ 30.47  DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is authorized to appoint one deputy clerk, to be
known as the Deputy Clerk, whose powers and duties shall be exercised only in
the absence of the Clerk in the place where the Clerk’s office is maintained,
and only when either written direction has been given by the Clerk to that
Deputy to exercise a power or the corporate authorities have determined by
resolution that the Deputy Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated to
perform that function.
   (B)   Any appointment authorized by this section and any resignation or
revocation of appointment shall be in writing. One copy of each appointment,
resignation, or revocation of appointment shall be given to the Village
President and maintained in the village files.
(Ord. 04-06, passed 7-12-2004)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 30.60  RECEIPT/DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive and keep all moneys of the village
coming into his or her hands, and disburse the same only upon warrant of the
President, countersigned by the Clerk, which warrant shall state the fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and to whom payable.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 30.61  RECORD KEEPING.
   He or she shall keep a full and accurate account of all moneys received and
disbursed by him or her on behalf of the village, with date of receipt and
disbursement, from whom received and to whom disbursed, and from what fund
received and disbursed. He or she shall keep a separate account of each fund or
appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 30.62  RECEIPT OF DISTRIBUTION.
   He or she shall give every person paying money into the Treasury a receipt
specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid, and he or she shall
file copies of such receipts with the Clerk at the date of his or her monthly
report.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 30.63  MONTHLY ACCOUNTING.
   He or she shall, at the end of every month, and more often if required,
render an account to the Board of Trustees under oath, showing the state of the
moneys received, on what account, and all warrants redeemed and paid; said
account, warrants, and all vouchers held by him or her shall be delivered to
the Clerk’s office, upon the day of such statement. He or she shall return all
warrants paid by him or her, stamped or marked “paid”. He or she shall keep a
register of all warrants paid, describing them and showing date, amount,
number, the fund from which paid, to whom, and when paid.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 30.64  MAINTENANCE OF FUNDS.
   He or she shall keep all moneys belonging to the village in his or her hands
separate and distinct from all other moneys in his or her hands, and shall not,
either directly or indirectly, use or allow to be used any of the same for his
or her own or another’s use or benefit.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)
§ 30.65  ANNUAL ACCOUNTING.
   He or she shall, between July 1 and July 15 of each year, make out and file
with the Clerk a detailed account of all receipts and expenditures and of all
his or her transactions during the preceding fiscal year.
(1977 Code, § 1-8-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYEE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Drug use policy
   
31.02   Liability
Ethics Policy; Gifts
   
31.15   Adoption of State Officials and Employee Ethics Act
   
31.16   Definitions
   
31.17   Prohibited political activities
   
31.18   Gift ban
   
31.19   Gift ban exceptions
   
31.20   Disposition of prohibited gifts
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  DRUG USE POLICY.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and pledges to establish and maintain a
drug-free environment in its workplace and for all of its employees.
   (B)   The village shall establish a drug-free awareness program to inform
employees about:
      (1)   The dangers of drug abuse in the workplace;
      (2)   The policy of the village to maintain a drug-free workplace;
      (3)   Any available drug counseling, rehabilitation, and employee
assistance program; and
      (4)   The penalties that may be imposed upon an employee for drug
violations.
   (C)   The drugfree workplace notice shall be incorporated into the village’s
personnel manual.
(Res. R-97-6, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 31.02  LIABILITY.
   (A)   To the fullest extent permitted by the Constitution of the State of
Illinois of 1970 and all other applicable laws, all village officers and
employees and each member of each board, commission, or panel of the village,
or by appointment of any individual by a village officer, established pursuant
to applicable state statute, ordinance, or resolution of the village, shall be
indemnified, defended, and held harmless by the village and against all
liabilities, expenses or investigation, judgments, and amounts paid in
settlement which may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred or paid by such
officer, employee, or appointee in connection or resulting from any claim made
against him or her, or any action, suit, proceeding, or investigation in which
he or she may be involved by reason of his or her having been such officer,
employee, or appointee; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity shall
not extend to any of the following:
      (1)   Any liability or cost with respect to any matter in which the
officer, employee, or appointee is finally adjudged to be guilty of a criminal
act;
      (2)   Any liability or judgment against an officer, employee, or
appointee which is payable to the village itself or where the village was
injured and the individual either obtained personal benefit or financial gain
as a result of his or her wrongful conduct;
      (3)   Any liability or cost incurred as a result of a village initiated
or approved investigation into the misconduct of the officer, employee, or
appointee;
      (4)   Any liability or cost incurred as a result of the officer,
employee, or appointee’s failure to reasonably cooperate in the defense of such
claim, action, suit, or proceeding; or
      (5)   Any liability excluded by a written waiver from the officer,
employee, or appointee.
   (B)   The foregoing rights of indemnification shall be in addition to any
other right to which such officer, employee, or appointee may otherwise be
entitled as a matter of law under state statute or village ordinance.
(Res. 99-11, passed 10-11-1999)
ETHICS POLICY; GIFTS
§ 31.15  ADOPTION OF STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEE ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The village adopts the prohibitions on accepting gifts contained in
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq. and
applies its restrictions to its own officials and employees.
   (B)   To the extent that this code is more restrictive than the State
Officials and Employee Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., then the provisions
of this code shall prevail.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE.  Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of Presidential or
Vice-Presidential electors, but does not include activities
      (1)   relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
      (2)   relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE.  A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
   CATERED.  Food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are
delivered by any means.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING.  Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act, 5 ILCS 315/3.
   COMPENSATED TIME.  With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this code,
does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal time,
compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of absence.
With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed, compensated
time includes any period of time when the officer is on premises under the
control of the employer and any other time when the officer or employee is
executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF.  Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION.  Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of
the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the direction
and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how the work
is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER.  The Village of Washburn.
   GIFT.  Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan,
forbearance, or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value
including, but not limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking
engagements related to or attributable to government employment or the official
position of an officer or employee.
   INTER-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT.  Any gift given to an officer or employee by an
officer or employee of another governmental entity.
   INTRA-GOVERNMENTAL GIFT.  Any gift given to an officer or employee from
another officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE.  Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER.  A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY.  Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION.  A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization whether or not incorporated that is required to file a statement
of organization with the Illinois State Board of Elections or a county clerk
under § 9-3 of the Election Code, 10 ILCS 5/9-3, but only with regard to those
activities that require filing with the State Board of Elections or a county
clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY. 
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event.
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including but not limited to the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on Election Day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE.  Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action by an officer, by an employee, or by the
officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business with the officer, with an
employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that employee;
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated by the officer, by an employee, or by
the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or non-performance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
   RELATIVE.  Those people related to the individual as father, mother, son,
daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, great aunt, great uncle, first cousin,
nephew, niece, husband, wife, grandfather, grandmother, grandson,
granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in- law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law,
brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter,
stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half sister, and including the father,
mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the individual's spouse and the
individual's fiancé or fiancee.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.17  PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer or employee's duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off.
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this code. No person either (1) in a position that
is subject to recognized merit principles of public employment or (2) in a
position the salary for which is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and
that is subject to the Federal Standards for a Merit System of Personnel
Administration, 5 C.F.R. § 900.601 et seq., applicable to grant-in-aid
programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely because he
or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of apolitical party,
or of a political organization or club.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.18  GIFT BAN.
   Except as permitted §
31.19, no officer or employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member
living with any officer or employee (collectively referred to herein as
“recipients”), shall intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any
prohibited source, as defined herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law
or ordinance. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift
that violates this section.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.19  GIFT BAN EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The ban on gifts in §
31.18 does not apply to the following:
      (1)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
      (2)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse or
immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
      (3)   A contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code or
activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a political
organization or candidate.
      (4)   Educational materials and missions.
      (5)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
      (6)   A gift from a relative.
      (7)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
         (a)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
         (b)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or
business reimbursement for the gift; and
         (c)   Whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual
who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar gifts to other
officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family members.
      (8)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided that the food or refreshments are consumed on the
premises from which they were purchased or prepared or catered.
      (9)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee, if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or
employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others
in similar circumstances.
      (10)   Intra-governmental and inter-governmental gifts.
      (11)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
      (12)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
   (B)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.20  DISPOSITION OF PROHIBITED GIFTS.
   An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family member
living with the officer or employee, does not violate §
31.18 if the recipient promptly:
   (A)   Takes reasonable action to return a gift from a prohibited source to
its source; or
   (B)   Gives the gift or an amount equal to its value to an appropriate
charity that is exempt from income taxation under Section 501 (c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3).
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A) Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.17 may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of §
31.18 is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this subchapter to the local enforcement
authorities, the State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   A violation of §
31.17 shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney for the village
by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn complaint, charging
such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of
criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of
the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
      (5)   A violation of §
31.18  may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the
village.
      (6)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of §
31.17 or §
31.18 is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Ord. 16-02, passed 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Emergency Service and Disaster Agency
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Coordinator
   
32.03   Functions
   
32.04   Service as mobile support team
   
32.05   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
32.06   Emergency action
   
32.07   Compensation
   
32.08   Reimbursement by state
   
32.09   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.10   Office
   
32.11   Appropriation; levy of taxes
   
32.12   National Incident Management System
Police
   
32.25   Chief of Police
   
32.26   Hiring standards
   
32.27   Part-time police officers
   
32.28   Police protection tax
EMERGENCY SERVICE AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Washburn Emergency Service and Disaster
Agency to prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural disaster in accordance with the Emergency Management Act. (See 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq.)
   (B)   The Emergency Management Act shall consist of the Coordinator and such
additional members as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-1)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.02  COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator of the village’s Emergency Management Act shall be
appointed by the Village President and Board of Trustees and shall serve until
removed by the same.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the Emergency Management Act,
subject to the direction and control of the President, as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
of the Coordinator, the Village President, or any person designated by him or
her, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this subchapter.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-2)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.03  FUNCTIONS.
   The village’s Emergency Management Act shall perform such Emergency
Management Act functions within the village as shall be prescribed in and by
the state’s Emergency Management Act plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by
the “Emergency Management Act”.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-3)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.04  SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the village’s Emergency Management Act may be
designated as members of a Mobile Support Team created by the state’s Emergency
Management Act as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the village’s Emergency Management Act organization.
   (C)   Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a municipal employee or
officer, while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director of
Emergency Management Act, shall receive the compensation and have the powers,
duties, rights, and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such
member who is not a paid officer or employee of the village while so serving
shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-4)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.05  AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Coordinator of the village’s Emergency Management Act may negotiate
mutual aid agreements with other municipal corporations or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the Board of Trustees and by the State Director of
Emergency Management Act.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-5)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.06  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists in the event
of actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the
state of major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action
or from natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the village’s Emergency
Management Act organization to cooperate fully with the state office of civil
defense and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided
by law.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-6)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.07  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the village’s Emergency Management Act organization who are paid
employees or officers of the village, if called for training by the State
Director of Emergency Management Act, shall receive for time spent in such
training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who
are not such village employees or officers shall receive for such training time
such compensation as may be established by the Board of Trustees.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 32.08  REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the Emergency Management Act organization, compensation for services
and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team while serving outside the
village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of Emergency
Management Act, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the
state incident to Emergency Management Act activities, as provided by law.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-8)
§ 32.09  PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Village
Coordinator of Emergency Management Act, authorize any purchase or contracts
necessary to place the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster
resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to
protect the public health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency
assistance to victims in the case of such disaster, or from natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the Village
Coordinator of Emergency Management Act is authorized, on behalf of the
village, to procure such services, supplies, equipment, or material as may be
necessary for such purposes, in view of the exigency, without regard to the
statutory procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to
village contracts or obligations, as authorized by the “Emergency Management
Act”, as amended; provided that, if the Board of Trustees meets at such times,
he or she shall act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that
body.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-9)
§ 32.10  OFFICE.
   The Village President is authorized to designate space in the Village Hall
or elsewhere as may be provided for by the Village Board for the village’s
Emergency Management Act organization as its office.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-11)
§ 32.11  APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village Board may have an appropriation for Emergency Management Act
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for Emergency
Management Act purposes only, a tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100 of the
assessed value of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as
provided by the “Emergency Management Act”, as amended; provided, however, that
the amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per
capita.
(1977 Code, § 2-1-12)  (Ord. 75-2, passed 6-9-1975)
§ 32.12  NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees endorses and adopts the National Incident
Management System (NIMS) as the Incident Command Standard for day-to-day
operations, large-scale, multi-agency, multi-discipline, multi-located complex
incidents.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees encourages all village departments to become
familiar with, learn, and apply NIMS as an integrated part of core emergency
management doctrine, and to utilize the Incident/Unified Command System during
all, routine, multi-company, and agency incidents.
(Res. R-04-06, passed 12-13-2004)
POLICE
§ 32.25  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Village Chief of Police shall have the power and authority of a
constable as provided by law, and shall cause all provisions of this code to be
enforced.
   (B)   It shall be his or her duty, upon its coming to his or her knowledge
that the provisions of any ordinance have been violated, to forthwith make the
proper complaint before the proper competent court, procure the arrest of the
offender, the attendance of witnesses, and the production of evidence for the
successful prosecution of the offender.
   (C)   He or she shall arrest, with or without warrant, any person whom he or
she may find violating any of the provisions of this code, or any criminal law
of the state, and take the offender before some competent court to be dealt
with according to law, and, if necessary, may detain such person in custody
over night or Sunday in the county jail.
   (D)   He or she shall attend all regular and special meetings of the Board
of Trustees.
   (E)   He or she shall have charge of the village property not otherwise
committed to some other officer.
   (F)   He or she shall be active and vigilant in the discharge of his or her
duties, and to the best of his or her ability cause the provisions of this code
to be rigidly enforced.
(1977 Code, § 1-9-1)  (Ord. 2, passed - -; Ord. 71-3, passed 12-3-1971)
§ 32.26  HIRING STANDARDS.
   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed on a
full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 12-9-1996)
§ 32.27  PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deem necessary.
   (B)   Duties. A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time police
officers. Part-time officers shall be trained in accordance with the Illinois
Police Training Act (50 ILCS 7705/1 et seq.) and the rules and requirements of
the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
given a discharge from the military under other than dishonorable conditions.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any time.
Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department.
   (E)   Working while in training. The Police Department for the village is
hereby authorized to allow any part-time officer who has completed the 40-hour
Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board weapons course, but has
not yet completed the remainder of his or her training necessary for obtaining
the certificate of completion from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board, to patrol the area within and near the village boundaries, but
only at such time as that part-time officer’s immediate supervisor or Chief of
Police is available by telephone to answer any questions that the part-time
officer may have during the part-time officer’s shift.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 6-11-2012; Ord. 15-03, passed 11-9-2015)
§ 32.28  POLICE PROTECTION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police protection in the village
at a rate of 0.075% of the value, as equalized or assessed by the Department of
Revenue, for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding years, all in
accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3 of the Illinois Municipal
Code.
(1977 Code, § 1-13-1)  (Ord. 69-4, passed 9-8-1969)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Smoking in Half-Moon Prairie Park
   
33.02   Plan of operation and governance for municipal opt-out electricity
aggregation
   
33.03   Joint Purchasing Program
   
33.04   Residential Anti-Displacement and Relocation Assistance Plan
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01  SMOKING IN HALF-MOON PRAIRIE PARK.
   (A)   Purpose and findings.
      (1)   The village is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace
and healthy environment for the visiting public and wishes to minimize the
harmful effects of secondhand smoke exposure for employees and the public.
      (2)   The Board finds and declares that, in order to protect the public
health and welfare, it is in the best interests of the citizens of the village
to adopt an ordinance prohibiting smoking within 50 feet of any ball fields at
Half-Moon Prairie Park.
      (3)   This section is enacted to protect, preserve, and promote the
health, safety, welfare, and quality of life of the children and youth,
citizens, employees, and the visiting public that use the ball fields located
at Half-Moon Prairie Park.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BALL FIELD.  The improved land used for athletic recreation that is
contained within the fenced boundaries and is under the care, management, and
jurisdiction of the village.
      DESIGNATED SMOKING AREA.  The village may allow smoking in specific,
designated areas so long as those areas are located at least 50 feet from the
fenced perimeter of the ball field.
      NO SMOKING ZONE.  The ball field and the area extending 50 feet beyond
the fence boundaries of the ball field.
      SMOKING.  The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT.  Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco
that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed,
dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means.
      UNIVERSAL “NO SMOKING” SYMBOL.  Symbol consisting of a pictorial
representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar
across it.
   (C)   Prohibited actions. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke any
tobacco product within the no smoking zone at Half-Moon Prairie Park.
   (D)   Implementation requirements.
      (1)   The village shall post signs that depict the Universal No Smoking
Symbol around each ball field and within the no smoking zone.
      (2)   The village shall remove all ashtrays and other smoking receptacles
from the no smoking zone.
      (3)   The acting official of Half-Moon Prairie Park, or his or her
designee, shall direct a person who is smoking within the no smoking zone to
cease and, if the person does not comply, shall contact the village or county
local law enforcement agency.
   (E)   Signage. The signs required in division (E)(1) above must:
      (1)   Include the universal “no smoking” symbol;
      (2)   Be of sufficient size to be clearly legible to a person of normal
vision, and be conspicuously posted; and
      (3)   Be posted approximately 50 feet from the fence boundary of each
ball field to designate the beginning of the no smoking zone.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 7-15-2013)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.02  PLAN OF OPERATION AND GOVERNANCE FOR MUNICIPAL OPT-OUT ELECTRICITY
AGGREGATION.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the Plan of Operation and Governance For the
Municipal Opt-Out Electricity Aggregation Program attached to Res. R-12-02 (as
amended by Res. R-13-01).
   (B)   The village’s legal counsel, is directed to take as such action as may
be deemed necessary to accomplish the village’s goals under the Program.
(Res. R-12-02, passed 5-14-2012, Res. R-13-01, passed 1-14-2013)
§ 33.03  JOINT PURCHASING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to the rules promulgated by the Illinois Department of
Central Management Services (Department) in furtherance of the Joint Purchasing
Act, the village does hereby agree, on a voluntary basis, to participate in the
Joint Purchasing Program administered by the Department.
   (B)   The President of the Board of Trustees and Mayor for the village is
hereby authorized and directed to execute on behalf of the village all
necessary forms, applications, requisitions, and other documents related to
this program.
(Res. R-97-3, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 33.04  RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The village will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low- to
moderate-income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as
low- to moderate-income housing as a direct result of activities assisted with
funds provided under § 104 of the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, 42 U.S.C. § 5304, as amended, and enacting regulations in 24 C.F.R. §
570.606.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of the
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the village will make public and submit to Illinios Department of
Commerce and Economic Opportunity the following information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assisted activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low- to moderate-income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low- to moderate-income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The village will provide relocation assistance, as described in 24
C.F.R. § 570.606, to each low- to moderate-income household displaced by the
demolition of housing or by the conversion of a low- to moderate-income
dwelling to another use as a direct result of assisted activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives of activities assisted under
the Act, the village will take the following steps to minimize the displacement
of persons from their homes.
      (1)   It will minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low- to
moderate-income persons.
      (2)   It will advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as
opposed to demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Ord. 95-11, passed 7-25-1995; Ord. 96-5, passed 7-8-1996)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Following oral or written notice by the acting official of Half-Moon
Prairie Park, or his or her designee, failure to cease smoking (in violation of
§ 33.01) constitutes an infraction punishable by a fine between $25 and $500. A
citation may be issued by a sworn law enforcement officer. Conviction of an
infraction under this section has no consequence other than payment of a
penalty, and no court costs may be assessed.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Private well water construction prohibited
   
50.02   Application for service
   
50.03   Villages’s responsibility and liability
   
50.04   Connection to lines
   
50.05   Installation of meter and lines; specifications
   
50.06   Water service restrictions
   
50.07   Inspection of plumbing by Superintendent
   
50.08   Hydrants
User Responsibility
   
50.25   Installing and maintaining service lines
   
50.26   Provisions for location of meter
   
50.27   Easements
   
50.28   Damage to village property
   
50.29   Specified users of water
Cross-Connections
   
50.40   Definitions
   
50.41   Compliance with existing laws
   
50.42   Prohibited connections
   
50.43   Control program
   
50.44   Corrections and protection devices
   
50.45   Piping identification
   
50.46   Private water storage tanks
Rates and Charges
   
50.60   Initial and minimum charges whether water used or not
   
50.61   Extension of mains
   
50.62   Change in occupancy
   
50.63   Payment of bills; delinquencies
   
50.64   Rate schedule
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  PRIVATE WELL WATER CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Prohibition. Any private water well construction within the village
limits shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Variance. The village retains the right to grant a variance from the
prohibition as contained within this section in exceptional cases; provided
that the petitioner for said variance proves that the location of the water
well is not within 200 feet of a contaminated or potentially contaminated
source of ground water, and proves compliance with:
      (1)   The Illinois Water Well Construction Code, 415 ILCS 30/1 et seq;
      (2)   The Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code, 415 ILCS 35/1 et
seq.;
      (3)   The Water Well and Pump Installation Contractor’s License Act, 225
ILCS 345/1 et seq.;
      (4)   Environmental Protection Act, 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.; and
      (5)   Water Well Construction Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 920 and the
Illinois Water Well Pump Installation Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 925.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-13-2002)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Water service shall be furnished only to village users upon filing of an
application and water users agreement with the Village Secretary upon a form to
be supplied by the village.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-1)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.03  VILLAGES’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Ownership, installation, and maintenance.
      (1)   The village shall install, own, and maintain the complete water
system, water mains, and service lines to the property lines or a mutually
agreed upon point subject to the Board of Trustees’ determination that a
particular service is economically feasible to install.
      (2)   The village shall furnish, install, and maintain a meter and
appurtenances including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed
on the user’s property line or such other point determined by a duly authorized
representative of the village. The meter may be located near the shutoff valve
or within the users premises as determined by the village representative. The
meter and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it is readily
accessible.
   (B)   Refusal of service. The village may at any time refuse additional
service(s) to any applicant if, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees, the
capacity of the system will not permit such use.
   (C)   Liability. All water service supplied by the village shall be upon the
express condition that the village shall not be liable nor shall any claim be
made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off of water
for repair, relocation, or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of
any part of the system or for concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted use of water.
   (D)   Use of water on users premises. The village shall reserve the right to
use the water from the users facilities at any time deemed necessary. No charge
shall be made by the user for the use of these facilities and no charge shall
be made by the village for the water used by the village.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.04  CONNECTION TO LINES.
   (A)   The Superintendent, or person authorized by him or her, will tap the
mains, inserting a stop-cock, which shall be known as the corporation cock, and
shall connect the service pipe and lay it to within six feet of the property
line and there set a stop-cock, which shall be known as the service cock box.
For such material and services there shall be a uniform charge as set by the
Board, which said sum shall be paid to the Superintendent of Waterworks by the
applicant for water.
   (B)   Payment for new water culverts and water installations is to be paid
when application is made. (Ruling, published 8-7-1965)
   (C)   The expense of conducting the water from the service cock to the
premises or building shall be paid by the consumer.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-2)  (Ord. 1, passed - -; Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 50.05  INSTALLATION OF METER AND LINES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall be paid the sum of $350, in advance, before
completing the installation of a water meter and water line. The village shall
be responsible for extending the water line to the user’s property line, so
long as such extension is 60 feet or less. In the event that the extension of
the water line exceeds 60 feet in length, then in that event the user is
responsible for the cost and reimbursement to the village for the extension of
the water line in excess of 60 feet to the user’s property line.
      (2)   The user shall be responsible for the cost of extending the water
line from his or her property line to the dwelling unit. The village will have
the final determination in determining the location and placement of the water
meter and water line. All apartments will be charged $350 for installation, to
be paid in advance, plus $350 for each apartment unit.
   (B)   Any additional water line shall meet the specifications of copper
tubing or its equivalent, which the Village Board shall determine from time to
time. The Superintendent shall inspect all hookups before ditches are closed.
   (C)   The water meter shall remain the property of the village, and all
water lines and meters must be installed by a plumber licensed by the state;
and placing of water meters shall be subject to the approval of the
Superintendent of Water and Streets.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-4)  (Ord. passed 6-11-1984)
§ 50.06  WATER SERVICE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be a condition of the furnishing of water that the same shall be
consumed on the premises or by the person residing or occupying the same, and
in case this condition is not complied with, then the village reserves the
right to disconnect said premises from the waterworks system.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-7)  (Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 50.07  INSPECTION OF PLUMBING BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Superintendent of Water and Streets, or anyone authorized by him or her,
shall have the right at any time to inspect any premises, and the plumbing
therein, to ascertain whether or not said plumbing is in a good state of
repair, and if the owner of said premises shall not, within five days after the
written notice, cause the same to be repaired in compliance with the request of
the Superintendent of Water and Streets, then the village reserves the right to
disconnect said property from the waterworks system.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-8)  (Ord. 15, passed - -)
§ 50.08  HYDRANTS.
   No person other than the Superintendent of Water and Streets, or those
authorized by him or her, shall open or close the hydrants of the village.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-9)  (Ord. 15, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
50.99
USER RESPONSIBILITY
§ 50.25  INSTALLING AND MAINTAINING SERVICE LINES.
   The user shall be responsible for installation and maintenance of service
lines between the curb stop and the residence or business. Such service lines
must be at least three-fourths of an inch in diameter, and must be installed at
a minimum depth of four feet. Service lines must have a minimum working
pressure rating of 160 psi at 73.4°F and must be constructed of one of the
following types of materials: copper (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC),
polyethylene, or polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are
inspected and approved by a duly authorized village representative. The user
will not connect any service line or any plumbing connected with the service
line to any other water source. The service line must meet any requirements of
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.26  PROVISIONS FOR LOCATION OF METER.
   The user shall permit the meter to be located upon his, her, or its
property.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.27  EASEMENTS.
   The user shall give such easements and rights-of-way as necessary to the
village and allow access for the purposes of construction, repair, maintenance,
meter reading, relocation, or expansion of the water system. The necessity
shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.28  DAMAGE TO VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No user shall tamper, adjust, damage, or in any manner interfere with
the components or operations of the water system owned by the village. The
shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized representative of the
village. Penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting, or in any manner
interfering with the components or operation of the system shall be up to $500
payable to the village. If the penalty is not paid within 30 days after the
amount is determined, the village shall discontinue the water service. The
amount of penalty shall be determined by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty the user responsible shall reimburse the
village for the actual cost of repairing any damage arising from the user’s
acts. Users shall report any known evidence of tampering, adjusting, damaging,
or interference with the operation of the system owned by the village to the
President of the Board of Trustees. Any malicious act or damage to the system
that is not appropriately punishable by the foregoing shall be prosecuted
through a court of law.
   (C)   All water meters shall be of the kind designated by the Board of
Trustees. They shall be placed in accessible places. All water meters shall be
kept in good working order and will be repaired by the village at its expense,
except for repairs due to neglect or abuse by the user (which includes allowing
the meter to be damaged by freezing).
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005; Ord. 15-01, passed 1-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29  SPECIFIED USERS OF WATER.
   (A)   Water purchased from the village may be used for ordinary domestic,
industrial, or farm use upon the premises of the user provided:
      (1)   No user shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased from
the village; and
      (2)   Each dwelling, apartment, business, and farm located outside and
separate from a single-family living unit is a separate unit. The user must
make application for service for each unit and each unit shall have a separate
cutoff valve, meter, and service line, and the user shall pay the minimum
monthly rate and other rates and fees herein established for each unit.
   (B)   For purposes of this section the following definitions apply.
      APARTMENT.  Single-family living unit that may be an individual living
unit or part of a multiple-family living complex.
      BUSINESS.  Business outside and separate from a single-family living
unit.
      DWELLING.  Single-family living unit.
      FARM.  Consists of one single-family dwelling and all related farm
enterprises served by that meter and service line.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 50.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW.  Water of questionable quality, wastes, or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION.  A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance
through which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP.  The minimum distance of water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device, or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at lest two times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe, but shall not be less than one inch and need
not be more than 12 inches.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY.  A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply including, but not limited to, water systems from ground or
surface sources not meeting the requirements of the regulations of the Illinois
Pollution Control Board Water Quality Standards, 35 Ill. Adm. Code 302, or
water from a public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed,
or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved
storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET.  A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture, or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste, or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER AND STREETS.  The village.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-1)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.41  COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS.
   A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with the
existing laws and rules, the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. 890, and the
provisions of this code of ordinances.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 50.42  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   Cross-connection of public water supply systems and any other water supply
system or source including, but not limited to, the following are prohibited:
   (A)   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply;
   (B)   By submerged inlet;
   (C)   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system;
   (D)   Between a public water supply and piping which contain sanitary waste
or a chemical contaminant; and
   (E)   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-3)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.43  CONTROL PROGRAM.
   The Superintendent of Water and Streets shall develop a comprehensive
control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross-connections,
removal of all existing cross-connections, and prevention of all future cross-
connections.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-4)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.44  CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any user of the Superintendent of Water and Streets shall obtain
written approval from the Superintendent of Water and Streets of any proposed
corrective action or protective device before using or installing it.
   (B)   The total time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections
shall be contingent upon the degree of hazzard involved and include the time
required to obtain and install equipment.
   (C)   If the cross-connection has not been removed within the time as
hereinafter specified, the Superintendent of Water and Streets shall physically
separate the water system from the on-site piping system in such manner that
the two systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized person.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-5)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.45  PIPING IDENTIFICATION.
   When a secondary water source is used in addition to the water supply,
exposed water and secondary water piping shall be identified by distinguishing
colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced readily in its
entirety. It will be necessary to protect the water supply at the service
connection in a manner acceptable to the Superintendent of Water and Streets.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-6)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.46  PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS.
   A private water storage tank supplied from the Superintendent of Water and
Streets water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it
is designed and approved for potable water usage.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-7)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.60  INITIAL AND MINIMUM CHARGES WHETHER WATER USED OR NOT.
   (A)   The rates as shown in the rate schedule in §
50.64 shall be paid by each customer who has signed a user’s contract,
beginning at the time the village makes the service available to the customer.
The minimum rate will be paid by those customers not using the service even
though they may not be connected to the system, provided the service is
available from the village.
   (B)   There shall be a $375 tap-on fee 0 for service to each property in
which an application and water user’s agreement has been filed prior to the
established cutoff date or completion of final plans, whichever comes first.
The tap-on fee for service after the established cutoff date or completion of
final plans, whichever comes first, shall be $500 for each five-eighths of an
inch or three-fourths of an inch meter.
   (C)   For meters larger than three-fourths of an inch, the tap-on fee will
be the actual cost of installing the meter and appurtenances. In addition to
the above charges, a $50 deposit shall be made by the user to guarantee payment
of water bills. The deposit shall be returned to user without interest upon
termination of water service and all accounts of that user being paid.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.61  EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   (A)   Determination of who pays expense of extension. The Board of Trustees
shall first determine if an extension of water main is economically feasible
based on the estimated cost of the extension and the number of existing
potential users that will use water along the extension. If the extension is
economically feasible, then the village may install and pay the cost of the
extension at the village’s expense upon written consent by the Board of
Trustees. The village shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area
such as a subdivision being developed unless, in the sole discretion of the
village, there are sufficient existing residents or businesses to make the
extension economically feasible; however, nothing contained herein shall
require the village to extend a water main or water service to a new
subdivision or to a particular user.
   (B)   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than the
village.
      (1)   The village must approve all plans, specifications, and permits for
any extensions.
      (2)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. Upon proper
installation of said mains, proof of passage of pressure and disinfection
results, and receipt of an operating permit from the Illinois Environmental
Protections Agency, the village will thereafter maintain the mains.
      (4)   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Board of
Trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.62  CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Notice to village. Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give written notice to the village ten days prior to the time such termination
of service is desired. The meter shall be read by the village and the user will
be billed.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment of services already consumed.
Responsibility for payment for water consumed prior to the date of termination
shall be with the property owner as well as the user.
   (C)   Charges for change. There shall be no charge for transferring the
water service to the subsequent user.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 50.63  PAYMENT OF BILLS; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   Due date. The meters will be read by the village on or about a monthly
basis. If weather conditions or other circumstances prevent the reading of
meters, then each water bill will be estimated by the village. Bills will be
mailed on the first day of each month or on the next business day if the first
day of the month falls on a weekend and will be due on the twentieth of the
month in which the billing is issued. Payment will be due and will be
delinquent if not paid by the twentieth day of the month in which billing is
issued. Bills will be paid to the Village Treasurer or other designated
representative.
   (B)   Penalties for late payment. There will be a 10% interest per annum
penalty added to each bill that is unpaid on the twenty-first day of the month
in which the user was billed. If any bills remain unpaid as of the thirtieth
day of the month in which the user was billed, the water supply to the property
affected will be shutoff by the village and the service will not be restored
until the delinquency and all accumulated interest is paid in full. In
addition, a $50 reconnect service fee will be added to cover the cost of
restoring service. Bills remaining unpaid 45 days after the last day of the
month in which the user was billed shall constitute a lien upon the real estate
to which the service has been rendered. The Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to file a notice of such lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds
for Woodford (or Marshall) County, Illinois, and to pursue such legal action as
is necessary to collect the delinquent charges. All reasonable attorneys’ fees
and costs associated with the collection of any amounts due the village,
perfection, preparation, and filing of the lien and/or the pursuit of any legal
action associated with the collection of any amounts due and owing for service
shall be added to the amounts due from the user and/or the owner of the
property having received the unpaid and outstanding services.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-6)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005; Ord. 06-11, passed 10-9-
2006; Ord. 08-04, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 50.64  RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The following shall be the rates for water supplied by the village.
The minimum monthly bill will be payable irrespective of use.
   (B)   The monthly bill will be computed on the following rate schedule.
 
Debt service charge                      $8.25 regardless of usage
Each 1,000 gallons per month             $6.25 per 1,000 gallons within village
                                         boundaries
                                         $6.90 per 1,000 gallons outside of
                                         village boundaries (increasing
10% premium for users outside of village proportionately to automatic rate
                                         increases for users located inside the
                                         village as set forth below)
Bulk water                               $0.01 per gallon in 25 gallon
                                         increments.
 
   (C)   Unless specifically and lawfully repealed by the village Board of
Trustees, the above rates shall automatically increase by 2% on the first day
of January of each year beginning January 1, 2008 as follows.
Year In Town Outside of Town
Year In Town Outside of Town
2005 $6.25   $6.88
2006 $6.25   $6.88
2007 $6.25   $6.88
2008 $6.38   $7.02
2009 $6.51   $7.17
2010 $6.65   $7.32
2011 $6.79   $7.47
2012 $6.93   $7.63
2013 $7.07   $7.78
2014 $7.22   $7.95
2015 $7.37   $8.11
2016 $7.52   $8.28
2017 $7.68   $8.45
2018 $7.84   $8.63
2019 $8.00   $8.80
2020 $8.16   $8.98
2021 $8.33   $9.17
2022 $8.50   $9.35
2023 $8.67   $9.54
2024 $8.85   $9.74
2025 $9.03   $9.94
 
   (D)   Rental or private use of fire hydrants is strictly prohibited.
(1977 Code, § 8-3-5)  (Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-2005)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the above stated provisions of this chapter, upon proof
of guilt, shall subject the violator to a fine of not less than $25, but no
more than $500.
   (B)   Any person and/or entity found to have opened a fire hydrant without
first having received the written permission of an officer or employee of the
village shall pay a fine between $25 and $500 plus the then applicable per
gallon cost of the amount of water used as estimated by the village.
(1977 Code, § 7-4-11)  (Ord. 87-2, passed 4-13-1987; Ord. 05-10, passed 9-12-
2005)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Use of public sewers required
   
51.003   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
51.004   Applications for sewer use permits
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.020   Connection
   
51.021   Permit requirement
   
51.022   Installation and inspection
   
51.023   State regulations
   
51.024   Public sewer available
   
51.025   Sanitary requirement
   
51.026   Additional requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.040   Permit requirement
   
51.041   Discharge compliance
   
51.042   Classes of permits
   
51.043   Sewage capacity
   
51.044   Connection costs and charges
   
51.045   Independent sewer requirement; exception
   
51.046   Old sewers
   
51.047   Construction requirements
   
51.048   Sewer elevation
   
51.049   Prohibited connections
   
51.050   Connection requirements
   
51.051   Notification for inspection
   
51.052   Excavation precautions
   
51.053   Extension of mains
   
51.054   Extension requirements
   
51.055   Change in occupancy
Use of the Public Sewers
   
51.070   Storm water and the like
   
51.071   Unpolluted drainage
   
51.072   Prohibited discharges
   
51.073   Specific discharge limitations
   
51.074   Department options for violations
   
51.075   Interceptors
   
51.076   Control manhole
   
51.077   Compliance
   
51.078   Testing
   
51.079   Special arrangements
Wastewater Service Charges
   
51.090   Basis for service charges
   
51.091   Basic user charge
   
51.092   Debt service charge
   
51.093   Capital improvement charge
   
51.094   Surcharge
   
51.095   Review of service charge
   
51.096   Rate change notice
   
51.097   Measurement of flow
   
51.098   Basic user charge
   
51.099   Debt service charge
   
51.100   Additional capital improvement charge
   
51.101   Rates
   
51.102   Non-metered users
   
51.103   Surcharge rates
   
51.104   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
51.105   Debt service surcharges
   
51.106   Exempt additional meter
   
51.107   Exemption for vacant lots
Wastewater Charges
   
51.120   Bills
   
51.121   Delinquent bills
   
51.122   Lien, notice of delinquency
   
51.123   Foreclosure of lien
   
51.124   Revenues
   
51.125   Accounts
   
51.126   Access to records
   
51.127   Effective date of rates
   
51.128   Appeals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The Superintendent of Water and Streets.
   BASIC USER CHARGE.  The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic mater under standards laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.  A charge levied on users to improve, extend, or
reconstruct the sewage treatment works.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface, and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER.  Include transit lodging, retail, and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE.  A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.  The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal, and coverage of (loan, bond, and the like) outstanding.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA.  Are defined in any applicable “NPDES permit”.
   FEDERAL ACT.  The Clean Water Act of 1972 (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) as
amended, (Pub. L. No. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT.  The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.,
and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL.  Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
food.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS.  Include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials of
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Any solid, liquid, or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow, or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial,
or business establishment or process or from the development, recovery, or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER.  Include schools, churches, penal
institutions, and users associated with federal, state, and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE.  Charges for costs other than the operation,
maintenance, and replacement costs, i.e. debt service and capital improvement
costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY.  An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER.  A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NPDES PERMIT.  Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of
the Federal Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants under 33 U.S.C § 1342.
   PERSON.  Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency, or other entity.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the EEPA Division
of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT.  A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One POPULATION EQUIVALENT is the
ratio of milligrams to liters, containing 250 mg/l of BOD and 250 mg/l of
suspended solids.
   PPM.  Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT.  The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary (or combined sewer system), even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with village funds.
   REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL USER.  All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
polluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  Is used interchangeably with “wastewater”.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface, and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE.  The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND.  The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of low exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STATE ACT.  The Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970, 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
   STATE GRANT.  The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER.  A sewer that carries storm, surface, and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF.  That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE.  The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in §§
51.090 through
51.106.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are
in suspension in, water, sewage, or industrial waste and which are removable by
a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of SUSPENDED SOLIDS
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA guidelines as
are included in the NPDES permit #IL0039411.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE.  The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance, and replacement.
   USER CLASS.  The type of user “residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial” or “industrial” as defined herein.
   WASTEWATER.  The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.  The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in §§
51.090 through
51.106, and shall consist of the total or the basic user charge, the local
capital cost, and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.  An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with “waste treatment plant”,  “wastewater treatment plant”, or
“pollution control plant”.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS.  Are defined in the regulations of the Illinois
Pollution Control Board Titled Water Quality Standards that appear in 35 Ill.
Adm. Code 302.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.002  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner, on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all the houses, building, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined)
sewer of the village is hereby required at his or her expense to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within 90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within 50 feet of the property line.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003  PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-5)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004  APPLICATIONS FOR SEWER USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Residential application.
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING SEWER APPLICATION
To the Village of Washburn, Illinois
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the ___________________________________ property
located
                  (Owner, Owner’s Agent)
at ___________________________________ DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install
and
   Number         Street
connect a building to serve the Residence at said location.
1.   The following indicated fixtures will be connected to the proposed
building sewer.
Number      Fixtures      Number      Fixtures
_________      Kitchen Sinks      _________      Water Closets
_________      Lavatories      _________      Bath Tubs
_________      Laundry Tubs      _________      Showers
_________      Urinals         _________      Garbage Grinders
Specify other fixtures _________________________________ .
2.   The maximum number of persons who will use the above fixtures is
_________________.
3.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the proposed
work is ____________________________________________ .
4.   Plans and specifications for the proposed building sewer are attached
hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
B. In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code of the Village
of Washburn and of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be
adopted in the future;
2.   To maintain the building sewer at no expense to the Village of Washburn;
and
3.   To notify the Village Department of Water and Sewer when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer, but before
any portion of the work is covered.
DATE:______________________________      SIGNED: ___________________________
                           (Applicant)
                        ____________________________
                           (Address of Applicant)
__________________________________
Village Treasurer
$___________________ connection fee paid.
$___________________ inspection fee paid.            Department of Water and
Sewer for the Village of Washburn, Illinois
Application approved and permit issued:
DATE: _________________________         By: _____________________________
                        Its: _____________________________
   (B)   Private application.
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL APPLICATION
To the Village of Washburn, Illinois
A. THE UNDERSIGNED, being the __________________________________________
                  (Owner, Owner’s Agent)
of the property located at ____________________________________________________
               Number            Street
DOES HEREBY REQUEST a permit to install sanitary sewage disposal facilities to
serve the ___________________________________ at said location.
                                    (Residence, Commercial Building, etc.)
1.   The proposed facilities include:                                          
                                                                               
                                                     
                                                                       
_________________________________________________________________________________
to be constructed in complete accordance with the plans and specifications
attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
2.   The area of the property is _______________ square feet (or ____________
square meters).
3.   The name and address of the person to be served by the proposed facilities
is:___________ .
4.   The maximum number of persons to be served by the proposed facilities is:
_____________ .
5.   The locations and nature of all sources of private or public water supply
within the 100 feet (30.5 meters) of any boundary of said property are shown on
the plat attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit, THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the proposed work that
shall be requested by the Department of Water and Sewer;
2.   To accept and abide by all provisions of the Village Code, of the Village
of Washburn, and of all other pertinent ordinances or regulations that may be
adopted in the future;
3.   To operate and maintain the wastewater disposal facilities covered by this
application in a sanitary manner at all times, in compliance with all
requirements of the Village and at no expense to the Village of Washburn; and
4.   To notify the Department of Water and Sewer at least 24 hours prior to
commencement of the work proposed, and again at least twenty-four (24) hours
prior to the covering of any underground portions of the installation.
DATE: __________________________       SIGNED:______________________________
                           (Applicant)
                          ______________________________
                           (Address of Applicant)
$ ___________ inspection fee paid.
_____________________________
Application approved and permit issued:         Department of Water and Sewer
for the Village of Washburn, Illinois
DATE: ___________________________   By:
________________________________________
                  Its: ________________________________________
   (C)   Institutional application.
COMMERCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL, AND INDUSTRIAL SEWER CONNECTION
APPLICATION
To the Village of Washburn, Illinois
A.   THE UNDERSIGNED being the ____________________________ of the property
located at
                  (Owner, Lessee, Tenant, etc.)
_________________________________________________________________ DOES HEREBY
REQUEST a permit to
_______________________ an industrial sewer connection serving the
   (Install, Use)
______________________________________________, which company is engaged in    
         
      (Name of Company)
___________________________________ at said location.
1.   A plat of the property showing accurately all sewers and drains now
existing is attached hereunto as Exhibit “A”.
2.   Plans and specifications covering any work proposed to be performed under
this permit is attached hereunto as Exhibit “B”.
3.   A complete schedule of all process waters and industrial wastes produced
or expected to be produced at said property, including a description of the
character of each waste, the daily volume and maximum rates of discharge, and
representative analyses, is attached hereunto as Exhibit “C”.
4.   The name and address of the person or firm who will perform the work
covered by this permit  is ____________________________________________
                                                                       
_______________________________________________________________________________________ 
B.   In consideration of the granting of this permit THE UNDERSIGNED AGREES:
1.   To furnish any additional information relating to the installation or use
of the industrial sewer for which this permit is sought as may be adopted in
the future;
2.   To operate and maintain a control manhole and any waste pretreatment
facilities, as may be required as a condition of the acceptance into the public
sewer of the industrial wastes involved in an efficient manner at all times,
and at no expense to the Village of Washburn;
3.   To cooperate at all times with the Department of Water and Sewer and his
representative in their inspecting, sampling, and study of the industrial
wastes, and any facilities provided for pretreatment; and
4.   To notify the Department of Water and Sewer immediately in event of any
accident, negligence, or other occurrence that occasions discharge to the
public sewers of any wastes or process waters not covered by this permit.
DATE:__________________________________    SIGNED:
__________________________________
                           (Applicant)
                        ____________________________________
                           (Address of Applicant)
______________________________
Village Treasurer
$ _____________ connection fee paid.
$ _____________ inspection fee paid.
Application approved and permit granted:   Department of Water and Sewer for
the Village of Washburn, Illinois
DATE:________________________      By: ___________________________
                  Its: ___________________________
   (D)   Attachment. The purpose of a user charge system is to generate
revenues from each user class commensurate with the operation, maintenance, and
replacement (OM&R) cost incurred by the village to provide such users with
wastewater treatment services. A user charge system is comprised of two
elements: the legislative enactments (ordinances) and the engineering/
accounting data necessary to demonstrate the proportionality of the user charge
system using a cost-rate-revenue relationship. Information pertaining to the
UCS should, as a minimum, include the following:
ENGINEERING/ACCOUNTING DATA
1.   Number of users by class:
   Residential               ____________________
   C Commercial            ____________________
   Industrial               ____________________
   Institutional/Governmental   ____________________
2.   Billable flow and loading by user class:
                     Annual Billable Flow   BOD (lbs/day)      SS Flow (lbs/
day)
   Residential               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Commercial               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Industrial               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Institutional/
Governmental         ___________      ___________      ___________
   Total                   ___________      ___________      ___________
3.   Total annual flow (including I&I):
______________________________________________ .
4.   Loading concentrations by user class:
                     BOD (mg/l)      SS (mg/l)      Other (mg/l)
   Residential               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Commercial               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Industrial               ___________      ___________      ___________
   Institutional/
Governmental         ___________      ___________      ___________
5.   Itemized operation, maintenance, and replacement budget for the grantee’s
treatment works, or estimates for the first year OM&R budget. This budget
should include costs for treatment, conveyance, collection, and billing, but
should not include local capital costs. Capital costs should be shown
separately. (See Attachment.)
6.   OM&R costs (exclusive of costs for debt service) should be proportioned by
volume and strength. Specifically, show unit costs per unit of volume and
strength (i.e. cost per 1,000 gallons, cost per lb. of BOD, cost per lb. of
suspended solids).
7.   OM&R costs by class (exclusive of costs for debt service):
   Residential               ___________________________
   Commercial               ___________________________
   Industrial               ___________________________
   Institutional/Governmental         ___________________________
   Total OM&R Costs            ___________________________
8.   Please show the following rates and exhibit the calculations used in their
formulation:
   Basic User Charge (per unit volume)      ___________________________
   Minimum User Charge (if applicable)   ___________________________
   Debt Service Charge            ___________________________
   Surcharge Rates for BOD (per lb)      ___________________________
   Surcharge Rates for SS (per lb)      ___________________________
9.   Based on the proposed rates, estimate the revenues to be generated
annually from each user class. This should be exclusive of revenue generated
for debt service.
   Residential               ___________________________
   Commercial                ___________________________
   Industrial               ___________________________
   Institutional/Governmental          ___________________________
   Total Revenue               ___________________________
SUGGESTED BUDGET LINE ITEMS
A.   Operation, maintenance, and replacement costs including:
1.   Salaries for treatment, sewers, and billing operations: (include indirect
salary costs - retirement, health insurance, FICA, and other fringe benefits);
2.   Power costs;
3.   Treatment plant supplies: (tools, lab equipment, samplers, meters, etc.);
4.   Chemicals;
5.   Sewer maintenance;
6.   Transportation equipment and maintenance: (vehicles, etc.);
7.   Office supplies and equipment;
8.   Insurance;
9.   Contractual professional services: (legal, audit, engineering); and
10.   Replacement: (plant, pumping stations). Please provide a replacement
schedule detailing the items to be replaced. This schedule must include, as a
minimum, all items with a useful life less than that of the treatment works,
but may include replacement costs for any sewage works facilities.
B.   Debt service and capital improvements including:
1.   Debt service; and
2.   Capital improvements: (costs for future expansion).
(Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.020  CONNECTION.
   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.002(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of §§
51.020 through
51.026.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.021  PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the Department of Water and
Sewer. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
village (see §
51.004), which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as deemed necessary by the Department of Water and Sewer. A
permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the village at the time the
application is filed.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.022  INSTALLATION AND INSPECTION.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Department of
Water and Sewer. The Department of Water and Sewer shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the Department of Water and Sewer when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of written notice by
the village.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.023  STATE REGULATIONS.
   After construction of collection and treatment facilities is completed, the
type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Private Sewage Disposal
Licensing Act, 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq., and with the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.024  PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.002(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (B)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt or as
otherwise shall be approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.025  SANITARY REQUIREMENT.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the village.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.026  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Department of Water
and Sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.040  PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with, or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Department of Water and Sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041  DISCHARGE COMPLIANCE.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042  CLASSES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential wastewater service and one for to commercial, institutional/
governmental, or industrial wastewater service.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the village (see § 51.004). The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Department of Water and
Sewer.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee of $50 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the village at the time the application
is filed. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.043  SEWAGE CAPACITY.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.044  CONNECTION COSTS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (B)   The owner of the property seeking sewer connection shall pay a one-
time connection fee to the village in the amount of $75, except that such
connection fee shall be waived for all connections occurring during the 2000
calendar year. Further, and without limitation to this or any future calendar
year, any such connection may be performed by the owner or agent of the
residential or commercial property, but such owner must submit a certification,
in writing, from a licensed plumber that the connection was properly made. It
shall be an indispensable condition for issuance of any permit that an
inspector representing the village shall be present to inspect and approve the
connection. All such connections shall be six-inch connections in the form and
specification outlined herein.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 00-8, passed 3-13-
2000)
§ 51.045  INDEPENDENT SEWER REQUIREMENT; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.046  OLD SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Department of Water and Sewer,
to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.047  CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The size, slope, alignment, and construction of a building sewer and the
methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and
backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the Building
and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the village. In
the absence of code provisions, or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM, International
(formerly known as the American Society of Testing Materials), latest edition
of the Water Environmental Foundation’s Publication Activate Sludge (Manual
Practice No. 9), and the latest edition of the Illinois Society of Professional
Engineer’s publication Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.048  SEWER ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in
accordance with §
51.041 and discharged to the building sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.049  PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050  CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules
and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM, International (formerly known as the American
Society of Testing Materials), latest edition of the Water Environmental
Foundation’s Publication Activate Sludge (Manual Practice No. 9), and the
latest edition of the Illinois Society of Professional Engineer’s publication
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All
such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from
the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Department of
Water and Sewer before installation.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.051  NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Department of
Water and Sewer when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Department of Water and Sewer or its agent or representative.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.052  EXCAVATION PRECAUTIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.053  EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   The Board of Trustees shall determine if an extension of a sewer main is
economically feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the
number of existing potential users that will be served by the extension. If the
extension is economically feasible, then the village may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the Board of Trustees. If the
village elects not to pay the cost of extending the sewer main, then the person
or persons desiring sewer service shall install the extension at his, her, or
their own personal expense upon written consent by the Board of Trustees. The
village shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area, such as a
subdivision being developed, unless there are sufficient existing residents or
business to make the extension economically feasible.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 51.054  EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than the village.
   (A)   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
   (B)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications must
be reviewed and approve by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   Ownership, rights-of-way, and title must be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The village will
maintain the mains thereafter.
   (D)   No extension will be permitted if, in the opinion of the Board of
Trustees, the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the proposed
extension.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 51.055  CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Notice to village. Any user requesting a termination of service shall
give written notice to the village ten days before the time such termination of
service is desired.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment of services already consumed.
Responsibility for payment for sewer service before the date of termination
shall be with the property owners as well as the subsequent user.
   (C)   Charges for change. There shall be no charge for transferring the
sewer service to the subsequent user.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 8-9-1999)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.070  STORM WATER AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.071  UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Department of Water and Sewer. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of
the Department of Water and Sewer, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural
outlet.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.072  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids, or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; or
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.073  SPECIFIC DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Department of Water and Sewer, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes,
the Department of Water and Sewer will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F,
(0°C and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Department of Water and Sewer;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Department of Water and Sewer for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Department of Water and Sewer as necessary after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving
waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Department of Water and
Sewer in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Department of Water and Sewer in
compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.2 mg/l at any time, except as permitted
by the Department of Water and Sewer in compliance with applicable state and
federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs” as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.074  DEPARTMENT OPTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.073, and/or which are in violation of the standards for pretreatment
provided in 40 C.F.R. Part 403 and any amendments thereto, and which in the
judgment of the Department of Water and Sewer may have a deleterious effect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Department of Water and Sewer may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes of sewer charges, under the provisions of
§
51.079. If the Department of Water and Sewer permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Department of
Water and Sewer, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances, and laws.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.075  INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Department of Water and Sewer, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
Department of Water and Sewer, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.076  CONTROL MANHOLE.
   (A)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Department of Water and Sewer, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes.
   (B)   Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Department of
Water and Sewer. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.077  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the federal, state, and local standards are being met.
   (B)   The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory
analyses to the village at such times and in such a manner as prescribed by the
village. The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.078  TESTING.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required the control manhole shall be considered to be
the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH’s are determined from periodic
grab samples.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.079  SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with §§
51.120 through
51.128, by the industrial concern; provided such payments are in accordance
with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES
§ 51.090  BASIS FOR SERVICE CHARGES.
   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge, a
debt service charge, a capital improvement charge, and applicable surcharges.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.091  BASIC USER CHARGE.
   The basic user charge is levied on all users to recover the operation,
maintenance, plus replacement (OM&R) costs and shall be based on water usage as
recorded by water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the following
normal domestic concentrations:
   (A)   A five day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 250 mg/l;
   (B)   A suspended solids content of 250 mg/l; and
   (C)   The basic user charge shall be computed as follows:
      (1)   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and pounds of
SS to be treated;
      (2)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
      (3)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to each user class by volume,
BOD, and SS;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD, and SS;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal domestic strength
sewage; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS concentrations in
excess of normal domestic strengths.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.092  DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   The debt service charge is computed by apportioning the annual debt service
as a charge per 1,000 gallons.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.093  CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.
   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for capital
improvements, extensions, or reconstruction of the sewage treatment works. The
capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual amount to be
accrued as a charge per 1,000 gallons.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.094  SURCHARGE.
   (A)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the normal
domestic concentrations of BOD (250 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the 250 mg/l and 250 mg/l concentrations for BOD and SS
respectively.
   (B)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Department of Water and Sewer and shall be
binding as a basis for surcharges.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.095  REVIEW OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not less
often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village in their
annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in local capital costs or OM&R costs.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.096  RATE CHANGE NOTICE.
   The users of the wastewater treatment services will be notified annually, in
conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user
charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.097  MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Department of Water and Sewer for the purpose of determining
the volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   (C)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Department of Water and Sewer if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
   (D)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the Department of Water and Sewer.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.098  BASIC USER CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a basic user charge of $2.50
per 1,000 gallons of metered water consumption to be applied to all users to
recover OM&R costs.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-
1999)
§ 51.099  DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a debt service charge of
$4.25 per 1,000 gallons to each user of the wastewater facility.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-
1999)
§ 51.100  ADDITIONAL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE.
   There shall be and there is hereby established a capital improvement charge
of $1.50 to each user of the wastewater facility.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-
1999)
§ 51.101  RATES.
   A minimum charge of $15 per month shall be applied to all users whose water
consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month. This minimum charge
consists of $5 for OM&R costs, $8.50 for debt service costs, and $1.50 for
capital improvements.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-
1999)
§ 51.102  NON-METERED USERS.
   (A)   All nonmetered residential users of the wastewater facilities shall
pay a flat rate charge of $35 per month. The flat rate charge consists of
$11.50 for OM&R costs, $22 for debt service costs, and $1.50 for capital
improvement costs.
   (B)   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
Department of Water and Sewer to be in excess of 5,000 gallons per month, the
Department of Water and Sewer may require such flat rate user to install
metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure the amount of
service supplied.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-
1999)
§ 51.103  SURCHARGE RATES.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
   (A)   Per pound of BOD: $0.50; and
   (B)   Per pound of SS: $0.50.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-1999)
§ 51.104  COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following
formula.
   (B)   Where:
      (1)   CW = Amount of wastewater service charge per billing period;
      (2)   CC= Capital improvement charge (§
51.100);
      (3)   CD = Debt service charge (§
51.099);
      (4)   CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement (§
51.101);
      (5)   Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period;
      (6)   X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (§
51.101);
      (7)   CU = Basic user charge for operation, maintenance, and replacement
(§
51.098); and
      (8)   CS = Surcharges, if applicable (§
51.094).
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.105  DEBT SERVICE SURCHARGES.
   In order to offset certain charges which are necessary for servicing the
debt load incurred by the village for the installation and maintenance of the
village’s sewer system, there shall be two additional surcharges imposed.
   (A)   Annual percentage surcharge. There shall be a surcharge of 2% per
annum imposed on the gross amount of the sewer/wastewater portion of each
monthly billing statement for each residential and commercial user account,
with said annual percentage surcharge to increase (compounded) by an additional
2% per annum with said annual increase to be collected beginning with August
billing statement for each successive year thereafter; and
   (B)   Flat fee surcharge. There shall be an additional flat $10 fee
surcharge imposed with respect to the sewer/waste water portion each monthly
billing statement for each residential and commercial user account. Said flat
fee surcharge shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the Village Board of
Trustees at their regular August meeting to determine if an adjustment of the
flat fee surcharge shall be appropriate; however, failure to conduct such
review shall not invalidate this flat fee surcharge, in which case the amount
of said fee shall be in place until formal action is taken by the Board of
Trustees to adjust same.
(Ord. 99-13, passed 8-9-1999)  (Ord. 13-02, passed 6-10-2013)
§ 51.106  EXEMPT ADDITIONAL METER.
   (A)   In instances where a residential water user applies for and
demonstrates a usage for water which: is uniquely distinguishable from typical
residential use(s) (such as, for example, the watering of livestock or the
filling and maintenance of a swimming pool or landscape pond which does not
discharge its waters into the village’s public sewerage systems); the applicant
has at least one water meter on the same tract of residential property owned by
the applicant which at all times will be subject to billing under the
applicable residential sewer use rates and charges; such usage will take place
wholly upon the owners property and no part of said water to be used will be
transported off the property; and which use will not result in any part of the
separately metered water being discharged directly or indirectly into the
public sewerage systems of the village, such residential water user, if
approved by the village, may at the user’s sole cost and expense, have
installed one additional meter which will measure water usage which qualifies
under the above criteria.
   (B)   Such qualifying metered usage shall be billed only at the applicable
water usage rates and charges and shall be exempt from billing under the
otherwise applicable sewer use rates and charges. Such exempt status shall run
with the land and shall not otherwise be assignable by the owner of the
property upon which the exempt meter is located; however, should the exempt
use, for any reason, cease to meet one or more of the above qualifications,
such exempt metered usage shall immediately and without further notice become
and remain non-exempt and shall be subject to application of the sewer use
rates and charges then in effect.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 00-9, passed 4-10-
2000)
§ 51.107  EXEMPTION FOR VACANT LOTS.
   (A)   All owners of single-family residential property within the village
upon which new residential construction shall be commenced within one year from
the date of passage of this section, and which shall not currently be located
in an area of the village allowing for access to the newly constructed village
sewerage system, shall be exempt from having to pay sewer rates and charges
unless and until, in the sole discretion of the village, hook-up to the
village’s sewerage system shall in the future become available to said newly
constructed family residence.
   (B)   There shall be two options available for persons or entities
constructing new single-family residences within the village that do not have
immediate availability to access the village’s sewerage system. In any event
(including an election not to pursue either of the following options), the
owner shall be required to pay current sewerage user charges even though the
property may not be hooked up to the village’s sewerage system.
      (1)   Subject to approval by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, the owner may, at the owner’s expense, connect the property to a
“wildcat” line (defined as a storm drainage or other drainage line) which
provides access to the village’s sewerage system.
      (2)   Subject to approval by the applicable County Health Department and
the state, the owner, at the owner’s expense, may install a holding tank, the
capacity of which to be determined in the building permit which may be issued,
for use in containing all sewerage waste generated by the property until such
time as access to the village’s sewerage system shall become available to the
property. In such instance, the village shall reimburse the owner for the cost
of pumping out the holding tank when it becomes filled.
   (C)   In either instance, at such time as access to the village’s sewerage
system shall become available to the property, the property shall immediately
hook-up to the village’s sewerage.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-1)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996; Ord. 00-14, passed 6-12-
2000; Ord. 01-03, passed 5-14-2001)
WASTEWATER CHARGES
§ 51.120  BILLS.
   (A)   Said rates or charges for service shall be payable monthly or
quarterly depending on the classification of service for which bills are
rendered. The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to such
premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the village only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the village.
   (B)   Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the Village Treasurer on
the first day of the month or quarter succeeding the period for which the
service is billed.
   (C)   All sewer bills are due and payable 20 days after being sent out. A
penalty of 2% shall be added to all bills not paid by the twentieth day after
they have been rendered.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.121  DELINQUENT BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility services and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person by counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or
in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the
customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
animal determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
§ 51.122  LIEN, NOTICE OF DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 60 days for
monthly service or 120 days for quarterly service after it has been rendered,
the Village Treasurer shall file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement
of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal description of the
premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the
period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises and
the Village Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises if his or her address be known to the Treasurer, whenever such
bill remains unpaid for the period 45 days for a monthly bill or 105 days for a
quarterly bill after it has been rendered.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.123  FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges shall be sold for non-payment
of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges,
after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens.
Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in equity in the name of the village. The
Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute such
proceedings in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill has remained unpaid 45
days in the case of a monthly bill or 105 days in the case of a quarterly bill
after it has been rendered.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.124  REVENUES.
   (A)   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and moneys shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from his or her private funds and separate and apart from all other funds
of the village, without any deductions whatsoever.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident to the operation of
such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in
the account of the fund designated as the Sewerage Fund of the village. Said
Treasurer shall administer such Fund in every respect in the manner provided by
statute of the Revised Cities and Villages Act, effective January, 1942.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.125  ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer, or his or her authorized agent or
representative, shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records, and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at regular
annual intervals he or she shall cause to be made an audit by an independent
auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and disbursements of the
sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these regulations.
In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit/report shall
include the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal
year;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.126  ACCESS TO RECORDS.
   The IEPA, or its authorized representative, shall have access to any books,
documents, papers, and records of the village which are applicable to the
village system of user charges for the purpose of making audit, examination,
excerpts, and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the
special and general conditions to any state grant, federal regulations, and
conditions of any applicable federal grant, loan agreement, and rules of any,
if applicable, state loan.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-2)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.127  EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The rates and service charges established for user charges in §§
51.090 through
51.106 shall be effective beginning September 1996, and on bills to be rendered
for the next succeeding month being October 1, 1996 for monthly users and on
bills to be rendered for the next succeeding quarter being October 1, 1996
through December 31, 1996 for quarterly users.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-3)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.128  APPEALS.
   The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in §§
51.090 through
51.106 shall be made available to a user within 14 days of receipt of a written
request for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations
thereof shall be remedied by a third party to be agreed upon by the parties
within 60 days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies.
(1977 Code, § 7-3B-4)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provisions of §§
51.120 through
51.126 shall be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
except §
51.003, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any
permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount between $25 and $500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(1977 Code, § 7-3A-7)  (Ord. 96-3, passed 6-17-1996)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State traffic laws adopted
Heavy Vehicles
   
70.15   Tires
   
70.16   Gross weight limits
   
70.17   Permits for excessive weights
   
70.18   Exempt vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED.
   The traffic laws of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq., are
hereby adopted and made a part of this code by reference.
(1977 Code, § 9-1-1)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)
HEAVY VEHICLES
§ 70.15  TIRES.
   All freight-carrying motor vehicles operated upon the public streets and
alleys of the village shall have tires of rubber or other material of equal
resiliency; provided, that solid tires shall be considered defective and the
use thereof shall not be permitted if the rubber or other material has been
worn or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-quarters of an
inch, or if such tires have been so worn or otherwise damaged so as to cause
pounding on the pavement.
(1977 Code, § 9-5-1)
§ 70.16  GROSS WEIGHT LIMITS.
   When any vehicle, or combination of vehicles, equipped with pneumatic tires
shall be operated, unladen or with load, upon any street in the village, with
the exception of State Route 89, the gross weight on the road surface from the
total vehicle, whether a single unit or a tractor semi-trailer combination,
shall not exceed 20,000 pounds.
(1977 Code, § 9-5-2)
§ 70.17  PERMITS FOR EXCESSIVE WEIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever it shall be necessary to transport a vehicle weighing in
excess of 20,000 pounds upon the village streets, the same shall be done only
after the issuance of a special permit for a single trip with the load so to be
transported. Any member of the Village Board or the Chief of Police is hereby
authorized, upon proper application in writing, to grant such special permit
for the moving of such excessive load; provided, that the person making such
application shall furnish a bond in the sum of $5,000 to the village,
conditioned so as to save the village harmless from any claim, loss, or damage
that may result from the granting of such permit, or that may arise from or on
account of any work done thereunder; and further, condition that the person
making such application shall restore at his or her own cost, to a condition
satisfactory to the Chairperson of the Street Department, any pavement, sewer,
pipe conduit, or other portion of the roadway that may be injured by reason of
the transportation of such heavy vehicle under such permit.
   (B)   The Village Board or Chairperson of the Street Department, in granting
such permit, shall whenever it may appear to him or her necessary to do so in
order to protect the pavements of the village or to prevent obstruction to
traffic, limit such permit as to time and particular street or streets to be
used, and impose such other special conditions as may, in his or her opinion,
tend to prevent injury or damage to the village or its property. The fee for
such permit shall be $10 to be paid to the Village Clerk before the same is
issued.
(1977 Code, § 9-5-3)
§ 70.18  EXEMPT VEHICLES.
   School buses, emergency vehicles, and vehicles making local deliveries shall
be exempt from the provisions of §§
70.16 and
70.17.
(1977 Code, § 9-5-4)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction,
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense.
(1977 Code, § 9-5-5)  (Ord. passed 4-9-1990)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Restrictions on vehicles
   
71.03   Operator requirements
   
71.04   Equipment requirements
   
71.05   Operation restrictions
   
71.06   Registration
   
71.07   Arrest
Snowmobiles
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   Use of highways allowed
   
71.22   Travel requirements
   
71.23   Time restrictions
   
71.24   State law requirement
   
71.25   Scope
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTLY CROSS OVER.  A crossing over of a village street not otherwise
prohibited herein provided:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an interchange and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The golf cart/ATV/UTV is brought to a complete stop before
attempting a crossing; and
      (3)   The operator of the golf cart/ATV/UTV yields the right of way to
all pedestrian and vehicular traffic which constitutes a hazard.
   GOLF CART/ATV/UTV.  Small vehicles specifically designed and intended for
purposes of transporting one or more persons.
   VILLAGE STREETS.  Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.02  RESTRICTIONS ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   Golf carts/ATVs/UTVs may not be operated on nor cross over the
following village streets of the village which are under the jurisdiction of
the state: State Route 89 (West Parkside Drive, Jefferson Street, and East
State Street) or any other street, highway, and/or road under the jurisdiction
of the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Golf carts/ATVs/UTVs may not be operated on, but may directly cross
over, the following village streets of the village:
      (1)   East Parkside Drive; and
      (2)   Any truck routes other than State Route 89.
   (C)   Except as provided for herein, and except in accordance with state
law, golf carts/ATVs/UTVs may be operated on all other village streets where
the posted speed limit is 35 mph or less.
   (D)   The owner and/or operator, jointly and severally, of any golf carts/
ATVs/UTVs that is operated on the streets of village in violation of this
section may be fined as provided in §
71.99. In addition, operation of a golf cart/ATV/UTV or any of the above
described unapproved vehicles on village streets in violation of this
subchapter is in violation of Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.,
and subject to prosecution by the State’s Attorney.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.03  OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
   Golf carts/ATVs/UTVs may only be operated on the streets of the village by a
driver who possesses a valid driver’s license, is 18 years of age or older, has
obtained a village permit as specified herein below in §
71.06, and any golf cart/ATV/UTV operated on the village streets displays proof
of current certification on the rear of the vehicle and is covered by the
minimum liability insurance that the state requires of all passenger vehicles.
Proof of insurance must be furnished to the village’s Police Department upon
request.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.04  EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   Any golf carts/ATVs/UTVs that are operated on the village streets must be
equipped with a headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front and a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at
least 100 feet from the rear which must be lighted at all times during the
period from sunset to sunrise (as required of other vehicles in § 12-201 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/12-201). If any golf cart/ATV/UTV is not
equipped with turn signals, then hand signals shall be used. Golf carts/ATVs/
UTVs must also be equipped with a horn, brakes, brake lights, a steering
apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, and a “Slow Moving Vehicle” or IDOT
approved reflective tape on the rear of the golf cart/ATV/UTV, as well as any
additional requirements which may be amended to 625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e) or the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.05  OPERATION RESTRICTIONS.
   Any golf carts/ATVs/UTVs operated on the village streets must observe all
posted speed limits. Any golf carts/ATVs/UTVs operated on the village streets
shall obey all traffic laws of the state and the village and must be operated
only on village streets (not sidewalks), except where prohibited. Operation of
golf carts/ATVs/UTVs on the village streets by a person who is under the
influence of alcohol may be prosecuted for driving while under the influence of
alcohol as provided § 11-500 and 11-501 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS
5/11-500 and 11-501.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.06  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Any person that operates a golf cart/ATV/UTV on the village streets
shall register the golf cart/ATV/UTV with, and apply for and obtain a permit
form, the Village Chief of Police or his or her designee prior to operation of
the vehicle on village streets, and shall further be required to re-register
the golf cart/ATV/UTV and re-apply for and obtain a separate permit prior to
each successive 12-month period thereafter. The golf cart/ATV/UTV shall be
subject to inspection and approval by the Village Chief of Police or his or her
designee. The cost of the annual permit shall be $25. Proof of liability
insurance shall be presented when the vehicle is registered.
   (B)   The village shall provide the permit application form and all
information requested shall be fully and truthfully provided by the applicant.
Any information or documentation provided by the applicant which, in the sole
discretion of the Police Chief or his or her designee, shall be found to be
false or deceptive, shall in and of itself constitute grounds for the denial of
an application or immediate revocation of any previously issued permit. The
permit application shall be substantially in the form which is attached as
Exhibit A and shall require the application to provide the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   A copy of a valid driver’s license of the applicant which shall be
placed and kept in the village’s file;
      (3)   The serial number, make, model, and description of the golf cart/
ATV/UTV;
      (4)   Proof satisfactory to the Village Police Chief or his or her
designee of the name of the liability insurance carrier specifically insuring
the golf cart/ATV/UTV and the policy number demonstrating compliance with the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code. A copy of the insurance card or other written
indicia confirming satisfactory coverage shall be placed and kept in the
village’s file; and
      (5)   A signed waiver of liability by the applicant releasing the
village, jointly and severally, from any and all future claims by the applicant
or other persons or entities arising from or resulting in any way, directly or
indirectly, from the operation of the applicant’s golf cart/ATV/UTV on the
streets of the village. A copy of the signed waiver of liability form shall be
placed and kept in the village’s file.
   (C)   A copy of the proposed waiver of liability form is attached in Exhibit
B. A permit shall only be issued in the event all of the following requirements
are met:
      (1)   The golf cart/ATV/UTV passes inspection by the Village Chief of
Police or his or her designee to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate on
the village streets and meets all the requirements of this subchapter and the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code;
      (2)   The applicant provides proof of insurance as set forth in this
subchapter;
      (3)   The signed waiver of liability form is delivered by the applicant;
and
      (4)   In the event that the applicant is physically handicapped, the
applicant must present to the Village Police Chief or his or her designee a
written certificate signed by a physician purporting to be currently licensed
to practice medicine in the state reflecting the physician’s opinion that the
handicapped applicant is able to safely operate the approved golf cart/ATV/UTV
on village streets.
   (D)   The Village Chief of Police or his or her designee may suspend or
revoke any permit previously issued upon a determination made in the sole
discretion of the Village Chief of Police or his or her designee that:
      (1)   The permit holder has previously provided false or deceptive
information or documentation during any prior application process;
      (2)   The permit holder is no longer capable or otherwise cannot safely
operate an approved golf cart/ATV/UTV on village streets; or
      (3)   The permit holder or golf cart/ATV/UTV no longer meets any or all
of the application or permit requirements as set forth hereinabove.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 71.07  ARREST.
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this subchapter
shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-2015)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY.  The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road,
street, avenue, alley, or public driveway.
   OPERATE.  To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use, or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
   OPERATOR.  Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   PERSON.  An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or
other entity.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SNOWMOBILE.  A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain, steered by stirs or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-1)
§ 71.21  USE OF HIGHWAYS ALLOWED.
   It shall be lawful for persons to operate snowmobiles on public highways
within the village, subject to the restrictions contained in this subchapter.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-2)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22  TRAVEL REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons operating a snowmobile on highways, as authorized in this
subchapter, shall travel on the roadway in the same direction as traffic, as
near to the right side of the roadway as possible, and such persons shall be
subject to all parking and traffic laws the same as the operator of any motor
vehicle within the village.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 71.23  TIME RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
village between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-2)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24  STATE LAW REQUIREMENT.
   Only those persons who are permitted to operate snowmobiles, pursuant to
state statutes, shall be allowed to operate snowmobiles within the village.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 71.25  SCOPE.
   By the enactment of this subchapter, the village does not mean to suggest or
imply that the use for snowmobile purposes of highways outside of, but adjacent
to, the village limit lines is permitted under law.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-2)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
71.01 through
71.07 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $500 for each offense. Any
second or subsequent offense, in addition to a fine, shall result in revocation
of the permit for a period of not less than one nor more than three years. To
the extent that any violation of §§
71.01 through
71.07 shall also constitute a violation of a criminal statute of the state, the
violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
71.20 through
71.25 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $10 nor more than $100 for
each offense.
(1977 Code, § 9-4-3)  (Ord. 79-1, passed 12-10-1979; Ord. 15-02, passed 6-8-
2015)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Four-way stops
      
III.   Three-way stops
      
IV.   Yield intersections
      
V.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are hereby designated for the complete stop of
all vehicular traffic.
Adams Street coming onto and crossing State Street
Adams Street coming onto or crossing Maple Street
Adams Street coming onto or crossing Walnut Street
Chestnut Street corning onto and crossing Adams Street
Chestnut Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Church Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Church Street coming onto and crossing Madison Street
Church Street coming onto and crossing Main Street
Dirt road coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Francis Street coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Garfield Street coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Gravel road coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Jefferson Street as extended intersecting with State Route 89
Jefferson Street as extended with Parkside Drive
Jefferson Street at the intersection of State Route 89
Jefferson Street coming onto and crossing State Street
Jefferson Street off Parkside Drive
Lincoln Street coming onto and crossing Chestnut Street
Lincoln Street coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Lincoln Street coming onto or crossing Walnut Street
Madison Street as extended in a curve at Jefferson Street
Madison Street coming onto and crossing Chestnut Street
Madison Street coming onto State Route 89
Magnolia coming onto and crossing Adams Street
Magnolia coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Magnolia coming onto and crossing Madison Street
Main Street coming onto State Route 89
Maple Street coming onto or crossing Jefferson Street
Oak Street approaching the intersection with Garfield Street from the west
Oak Street approaching the intersection with Lincoln Street from the east or
west
Oak Street approaching the intersection with Park Street from the east
Park Street coming onto or crossing Parkside Drive
Park Street coming onto or crossing Walnut Street
South Street coming onto and crossing Main Street
State Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
State Street coming onto and crossing Main Street as extended
State Street coming onto Jefferson Street as extended
The northwest corner where Oblique Street joins Madison Street
The southeast corner where Madison Street joins Walnut Street
The southwest corner where Park Street joins Highview Ridge
Walnut Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Walnut Street coming onto and crossing Main Street
Washington Street coming onto or crossing Walnut Street
Washington Street coming onto State Route 89
Water Street corning onto and crossing Adams Street
Water Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Woodford Street coming onto and crossing Adams Street
Woodford Street coming onto and crossing Jefferson Street
Woodford Street coming onto and crossing Madison Street
Woodford Street coming onto and crossing Main Street
 
(1977 Code, § 9-3-1)  (Ord. 7-11-66; passed - -; Ord. 2-70, passed 5-11-1970;
Ord. 72-3, passed 6-12-1972; Ord. 78-2, passed 4-10-1978; Ord. 83-1, passed 6-
13-1983; Ord. 87-1, passed 2-9-1987; Ord. 05-06, passed 7-11-2005)
SCHEDULE II.  FOUR-WAY STOPS.
   The following intersections shall be established as four-way stops.
 
The intersection of Adams Street and Church Street
The intersection of Francis Street and Walnut Street
The intersection of Garfield Street and Walnut Street
The intersection of Main Street and Church Street
The intersection of Washington Street and West Walnut Street
 
(1977 Code, § 9-3-2)  (Ord. 2-70, passed 5-11-1970; Ord. 72-3, passed 6-12-
1972; Ord. 83-1, passed 6-13-1983; Ord. 11-03, passed 7-11-2011)
SCHEDULE III.  THREE-WAY STOPS.
   The following intersections shall be established as three-way stops.
 
The intersection of Madison Street and Water Street
The intersection of Madison Street and Woodford Street
The intersection of Main Street and Walnut Street
The intersection of Park Street and Highview Ridge
The intersection of State Street and Adams Street
The intersection of State Street and Lynn Street
 
(1977 Code, § 9-3-3)  (Ord. 83-1, passed 6-13-1983; Ord. passed 4-8-1985; Ord.
00-6, passed 1-10-2000; Ord. 00-13, passed5-8-2000; Ord. 00-16, passed 8-14-
2000; Ord. 14-01, passed 8-14-2014; Ord. 15-07, passed 12-14-2015)
SCHEDULE IV.  YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The intersections of Crestwood Court and Hillcrest Drive are hereby declared
to be, and shall henceforth be maintained as, a yield (two-way) intersection.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 12-14-2015)
SCHEDULE V.  SPEED LIMITS.
   The posted speed limit for all vehicular traffic traveling upon the 700-900
block of North Francis Street is hereby declared to be, and shall henceforth be
maintained as, not exceeding 25 mph, with speed control signs to be erected by
the village on Oak Street such as to cause vehicular traffic traveling upon
such section of North Francis Street not to exceed said speed limit.
(Ord. 05-11, passed 11-16-2005)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parallel parking
      
II.   Parking restricted
SCHEDULE I. PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   All automobiles parked on downtown Jefferson Street must be parked
parallel with the curb on both sides of the street.
   (B)   No vehicles shall park on the paved portion of the north side of
Parkside Drive at any time. Vehicles may park parallel with the curb on the
paved portion of the south side of Parkside Drive for no longer than three
hours.
   (C)   No vehicles shall park on Walnut Street lying east of the 100 block
through the village between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Monday through
Friday. Vehicles may be parked parallel with the curb on the paved portion of
the north side of Walnut Street at times other than those listed above and on
weekends and holidays.
   (D)   Parallel parking will be permitted on both sides of Walnut Street east
of Jefferson Street to the 200 block of said street.
   (E)   On that portion of Walnut Street west of Jefferson Street to the first
alleyway, parallel parking will be allowed on both sides. No parking will be
permitted on the paved portion of Walnut Street west of this alleyway.
(1977 Code, § 9-2-2)  (Ord. passed 11-14-1988)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park any vehicle on Jefferson
Street between Chestnut and Maple Streets for more than three hours between the
hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   (1)   Because Jefferson Street in the village is a part of Illinois
State Bond Issue Highway No. 89 and because of the large amount of traffic on
said street, it is necessary to provide certain restrictions and regulations
concerning the parking thereon.
      (2)   Because State Street in the village is adjacent to, and leads to
and from, the grade school which is located in the village, and because a large
amount of traffic is on said street, it is necessary to provide certain
restrictions and regulations concerning the parking thereon, and no automobile
or other motor vehicles shall be allowed to park on State Street.
      (3)   No person shall suffer or permit the parking of automobiles and
other motor vehicles on Jefferson Street from State Street to Chestnut Street
on either the west side or east side of said street.
   (C)   (1)   At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand
or be parked on the north side of Magnolia Street from Jefferson Street
(Illinois State Bond Issue Highway No. 89) to Madison Street within the
village.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park any vehicle on the south
side of Magnolia Street from Jefferson Street (Illinois State Bond Issue
Highway No. 89) to Madison Street within the village for more than three hours
at any time.
      (3)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to remove and tow away,
or have removed and towed away by commercial towing service, any car or other
vehicle illegally parked where parking has been prohibited.
      (4)   Cars so towed away at owners’ expense for illegal parking shall be
stored in a safe place and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such
car upon the payment of a fee of $10 within 24 hours after such car was
removed, plus $5 for each additional 24 hours or fraction thereof.
   (D)   Parking will be prohibited on State and Jefferson Streets located
within the corporate limits extending from the north village limits westerly
and southerly to Chestnut Street, and parking other than parallel to the curbs
will be prohibited on Jefferson Street between Chestnut Street and Maple
Street.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or to permit automobiles
and other motor vehicles to be parked on the north side of Chestnut Street from
Jefferson Street to a point 175 feet east of Jefferson Street.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to, at any time, permit or allow
any motor vehicle registered in the name of, or operated by, such person to be
parked on the street on the south side of Chestnut Street between Jefferson
Street and the first alley to the west of Jefferson Street in the village.
   (G)   (1)   On the westerly side of said building on Jefferson Street,
parking shall be allowed as posted pursuant to previous ordinance. On the
easterly side of said building located on Madison Street, parking shall be
restricted to postal office customers for a period of time not to exceed five
minutes, for a distance of 90 feet on Madison Street, immediately adjacent to
the United States post office building, which restricted parking shall be
clearly marked and posted by proper signs.
      (2)   The parking restricted at the United States post office set forth
in this division (G) shall be restricted during the following hours: 6:00 a.m.
through 6:00 p.m. on each Monday through Friday and 6:00 a.m. through 12:00
noon on Saturday. Parking at all other times shall not be restricted.
      (3)   Any person violating this provision of this division (G) shall,
upon conviction, be fined $10 for each offense.
   (H)   On days when two or more inches of snow are called for, it shall be
illegal to park on Parkside Drive from Route 89 to Francis Street, on Walnut
Street from Francis Street to Route 89, on Francis Street from Parkside Drive
to Walnut Street, on State Street from Route 89 to Main Street, and on Main
Street from State Street to Route 89.
(1977 Code, § 9-2-3)  (Ord. 69, passed 1954; Ord. 1, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 71-
1 A, passed 4-21-1971; Ord 75-3, passed 8-11-1975; Ord. passed 8-12-1980; Ord.
passed 9-14-1987; Ord. passed 11-14-1988; Ord. 00-11, passed 5-8-2000)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandoned vehicles
   
90.03   Notify police; removal
   
90.04   Towing authorized; costs
   
90.05   Maintain record
   
90.06   Owner unknown
   
90.07   Reclamation
   
90.08   Public sale of vehicles
   
90.09   Disposal of vehicles
   
90.10   Report sale or disposal
   
90.11   Disposition of proceeds
   
90.12   Not liable for damages
   
90.13   Certificate of title
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition, or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY.  Any street, alley, or public way within the village.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 90.02  ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof on any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any
part thereof on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of
the general public, anywhere in the village is unlawful except on property of
the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the
Village Chief of Police after a waiting period of seven days or more has
expired.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03  NOTIFY POLICE; REMOVAL.
   (A)   When an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this
state, not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the
village’s Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of
the village.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen,
or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely
keep the towed vehicle and its contents and maintain a record of the tow until
the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-3)
§ 90.04  TOWING AUTHORIZED; COSTS.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
village ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by
order of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle, or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police.
   (C)   When a vehicle is authorized removed from either public or private
property by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 90.05  MAINTAIN RECORD.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number, and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-5)
§ 90.06  OWNER UNKNOWN.
   (A)   When the village’s Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
state police to be searched by a directed communication to the state police for
information on the vehicle. When the state police files are searched with
negative results, the information contained in the National Crime Information
Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the state police. The information
determined from these record searches will be used by the Police Department in
sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled
person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and
setting forth public sale information.
   (C)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this state or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the state police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle’s owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-6)
§ 90.07  RECLAMATION.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-7)
§ 90.08  PUBLIC SALE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of 30
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police Department
having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public sale to
the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in
a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded.
   (B)   At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall cause
a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the
registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or towing
service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice
shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps
must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (C)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the United States Postal Service to the Police Department
due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained
from the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-8)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 90.09  DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is impounded
as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, service by publication, or in person for a
determination of disposition; and, an examination of the state police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten-day period, without the benefit of disposition information being received
from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of
the vehicle as junk only.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-9)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 90.10  REPORT SALE OR DISPOSAL.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled
person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as
provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the
Police Department for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-10)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 90.11  DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is
authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth
in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
Village Treasury.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-11)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 90.12  NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal representative, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-12)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
§ 90.13  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   A purchaser at a public sale as authorized by this chapter may apply for a
certificate of title to the Secretary of State of the State of Illinois as
provided in § 4-212 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/4-212, and the
Chief of Police of the village shall certify to the Secretary of State that the
purchaser has acquired a motor vehicle or other vehicle at a public sale as
provided in the aforementioned statute.
(1977 Code, § 6-2-13)  (Ord. 74-1, passed 1-14-1974)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Animals restricted
   
91.04   Disturbing the peace
   
91.05   Cruelty
   
91.06   Rabies vaccination and exposure
   
91.07   Notice of impoundment
   
91.08   Destruction and/or disposal of impounded animals
   
91.09   Public nuisance
   
91.10   Number of animals
   
91.11   Permit and fees
   
91.12   Fee exemption
   
91.13   Renewal
   
91.14   Inspections
   
91.15   Permit exception
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Animal Control Act of
the Village of Washburn.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-1)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any animal, other than human, which may be affected by rabies or
other contagious or infectious disease.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN.  Any person appointed by the President and approved
by the Board to perform duties as assigned by the President to effectuate this
chapter.
   CONFINED.  Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure away from other animals
and the public.
   DANGEROUS DOG.  Any dog that has previously attacked or bitten any person or
domestic animal, or possesses a propensity to attack or bite people or domestic
animal, or cause annoyance to persons using the public roads, streets, and
sidewalks or chase, worry, or molest livestock, other dogs, or children, or
cause any damage or injury, which propensity is known or ought reasonably to be
known by the owner of such dog. Written notice from the President mailed to
last known address of the owner shall constitute knowledge by the owner.
   DOG.  All members of the family Canidae.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN.  Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES.  The injection of an anti-rabies vaccine
approved by the Illinois Department of Agriculture.
   LEASH.  A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to
the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient
strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN.  A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   OWNER.  Any person having a right of property in a dog or other animal, or
who keeps or harbors a dog or other animal, or who has it in his or her care,
or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic
animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her. If such
person is a minor, then the parent or guardian with whom such child resides
shall be considered to be the OWNER of such dog or other animal.
   POUND.  Any facility approved by the President for the purpose of enforcing
this chapter and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or
unwanted dogs or other animals.
   RUNNING AT LARGE.  Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off
the property of his or her owner, possessor, or keeper and not under control of
a competent person either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise.
   VICIOUS DOG.  Any individual dog that, when unprovoked, inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property; any
individual dog with a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of
human beings or domestic animals; any individual dog which attacks a human
being or domestic animal without provocation; any individual dog which has been
found to be a “dangerous dog” upon three separate occasions. No dog shall be
deemed VICIOUS if it bites, attacks, or menaces a trespasser on the property of
its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or abused it or is a
professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard duties.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-2)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 91.03  ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any horse or mule, or any
team, in any unenclosed or public place without being fastened, guarded, or
secured so as to prevent its running away.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully drive or entice any
animal from beyond the inhabited part of the village into the same or to aid or
abet the same, or to let any animal out of any enclosure in which it may be
confined, or to aid or abet in the letting out or escape thereof in order to
take up or impound the same.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to keep any animal deemed wild or dangerous
within the limits of the village.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep any animal normally deemed a “farm
animal” within the limits of the village except for beef cattle, sheep, goats,
horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, and poultry. The maximum number of animals
shall not exceed:
      (1)   Livestock: one animal per acre of fenced pasture; and/or
      (2)   Poultry: four animals per acre of fenced pasture.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to take out or tether any horse,
mule, ass, cow, or other animal in any street or avenue, within the limits of
the village, or to cause, suffer, or permit any such animal belonging to him or
her or in his or her possession to be staked out or tethered in any street or
avenue of the village.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-3)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989; Ord. passed 2-10-1992)  Penalty,
see §
91.99
§ 91.04  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the
peace by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
   (B)   No person owning any animal shall suffer or permit such animal to
disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking, making other loud
or unusual noises, or by running through, on, or across property owned by
others.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-4)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  CRUELTY.
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the village in any way. Any
person who inhumanely beats, under feeds, overloads, or abandons any animal
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this section.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-5)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  RABIES VACCINATION AND EXPOSURE.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal four months or more of age, not confined at
all times, shall cause such animal to be inoculated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian at such intervals as may hereafter be established by the
State of Illinois Rabies Control Act. Said animal is to display a current
licensed rabies tag on its collar at all times.
   (B)   The owner of any dog or other animal which exhibits clinical signs of
rabies, whether or not such dog or other animal has been inoculated against
rabies, shall immediately notify the Animal Control Warden and shall promptly
confine such dog or other animal, or have it confined, under suitable
observation, for a period of at least ten days, unless officially authorized by
the President.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-6)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   When cats, dogs, or other owned animals are apprehended and impounded
by the Animal Control Officer, and such animals are unidentified, said animals
shall be held for a boarding period of not less than three days.
   (B)   If the owner of the impounded animal is known or is identified, said
animal shall be held and the President shall give notice of not less than seven
days to the owner. Such notice shall be mailed to the last known address of the
owner.
   (C)   In case the owner of any impounded animal desires to make redemption
thereof, he or she may do so on the following conditions:
      (1)   He or she must present proof of current rabies inoculation, and
registration, if applicable;
      (2)   He or she must pay for the rabies inoculation of the animal if same
does not have a current inoculation; and
      (3)   He or she must pay the pound for the board of the animal for the
period it was impounded according to the following redemption fee schedule:
         (a)   Ten dollars per day for the taking up and impounding of each
animal wearing a tag as required by the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et
seq.; or
         (b)   Ten dollars per day for the taking up and impounding of each
animal which is not wearing a tag issued under the Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS
5/1 et seq..
      (4)   He or she must pay an additional $25 as a reclamation fee for the
first such occasion said animal was apprehended running at large and $35 for
each subsequent occasion, which reclamation fee shall be paid to the village.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-7)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 91.08  DESTRUCTION AND/OR DISPOSAL OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS.
   (A)   When not redeemed by the owner, an animal which has been impounded for
failure to be inoculated and registered, if applicable, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be humanely dispatched, offered for adoption,
or otherwise disposed of by the pound as a stray animal in accordance with the
laws that exist or may hereafter exist.
   (B)   Any animal impounded under this chapter and not redeemed within seven
days may be destroyed by the Animal Welfare Officer in any humane manner as
provided in the statutes of the state.
   (C)   Any animal suspected to be afflicted with rabies running at large
within the village may be slain by the Animal Welfare Officer, or any other law
enforcement officer, if such officer deems it essential to the safety of any
person within the village.
   (D)   Any animal impounded and not wearing the tag issued under the Animal
Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq., whose owner or keeper is unknown, shall be
destroyed or may be redeemed by any person upon the payment of costs of
impounding, on or after 21 days from the date said animal is impounded.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-8)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)
§ 91.09  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner when not
under control by leash or other recognized control methods. Such animals shall
be deemed “running at large”.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to permit any animal to run at large within the
village.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-9)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10  NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no person or household shall own or
harbor, in any combination, more than three dogs and/or cats in excess of six
months of age, except that a person owning up to three total of any combination
of dogs and cats shall be allowed to harbor one litter of either cats or dogs
six months of age or younger without penalty.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11  PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   A person or household zoned for commercial business (including persons
or businesses that breed, buy, sell, trade, train, or board cats and/or dogs)
may avoid the effect of §
91.10 by obtaining a special permit from the governing body.
   (B)   No special permit shall be issued until an inspection certificate has
been issued by the Zoning Officer certifying approval of the premises and
compliance with the applicable laws of the village. Prior to issuance or
renewal of the special permit, the Zoning Officer or Police Department will
inspect the site to make sure all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The premises shall be maintained according to all state laws and
village ordinances;
      (2)   The premises shall be maintained so as to not be a public nuisance;
and
      (3)   The premises shall be maintained so as to not be detrimental to the
health, safety, or peace of mind of persons residing within a two-block radius.
   (C)   If at any time the Zoning Officer finds any of the following criteria
are not being met, the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (D)   The fee for said permit or any renewal thereafter shall be $500. Said
permit shall be valid for one year from date of purchase, unless said permit is
suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 91.12  FEE EXEMPTION.
   A person or household owning more than three dogs and/or cats within the
village at the time or prior to the effective date of this chapter, including a
person who trains or boards dogs and cats, shall be exempt from the permit fee
provided in §
91.11, or any renewal thereof; provided, however, that this exemption shall no
longer apply if a permit is suspended or revoked as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 91.13  RENEWAL.
   (A)   Special permits must be renewed annually. If the Zoning Officer has
not received any protest against the premises, the Zoning Officer may issue a
renewal of an existing special permit at the same location.
   (B)   If the Zoning Officer finds that the holder of any special permit
detrimental to the health, or safety of any person residing with a two-block
radius, the special permit shall not be renewed except after the public hearing
before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 91.14  INSPECTIONS.
   The Zoning Officer or any law enforcement officer shall have the right to
inspect any premises licensed under this chapter at any reasonable time, and
nothing shall prevent the entry onto private property for the purpose of
inspection. The application for a special permit shall constitute consent to
such entry and inspection.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 91.15  PERMIT EXCEPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to, and will not be construed to require a
special permit for, a licensed veterinarian to operate an animal hospital.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.09 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 or more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   Any person in violation of §
91.10 and failing to apply for a special permit as provided in this chapter
shall be given a warning in writing. Said person shall be given five business
days from the issuance of the written warning to submit the special permit fee
and allow the inspection or inspections necessary for the Zoning Officer to
issue or deny a permit. Failure to do so will result in a fine between $25 and
$500.
      (2)   A fine of between $25 and $500 per calendar day will be issued for
each day that any person continues to violate of §
91.10 after said person:
         (a)   Has been denied a special permit;
         (b)   Has his or her special permit revoked or suspended by the Zoning
Officer; or
         (c)   Has failed to pay the special permit and consent to written
inspection pursuant to division (B)(1) above within five business days after a
written warning.
(1977 Code, § 6-4-10)  (Ord. passed 3-13-1989; Ord. 08-02, passed 7-10-2008)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisances prohibited
Weeds
   
92.15   Liability for services
   
92.16   Cutting grass, weeds; delinquent charges
   
92.17   Definitions
   
92.18   Allowing nuisance to remain
   
92.19   Notice to abate
   
92.20   Form and method of service of notice
   
92.21   Abatement by village
   
92.22   Summary abatement
   
92.23   Recording of notice of lien
   
92.24   Payment and release
   
92.25   Depositing refuse
   
92.26   Continuing nuisances
Dangerous and Abandoned Buildings
   
92.40   Determination of fitness
   
92.41   Citizen petition
   
92.42   Additional procedures
Jake Brakes
   
92.55   Purpose
   
92.56   Definition
   
92.57   Prohibited actions
   
92.58   Areas of prohibition
   
92.59   Signage
   
92.60   Exception
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle, including, but not limited
to, a motor-driven cycle which makes an unusually loud or unnecessary noise.
   (B)   Any sound, animal, or thing which interferes with the peace or
comfort, or disturbs the quiet of any person in the village shall constitute a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Any thing which is made, permitted, used, kept, maintained, or
operated in the village in a manner that is offensive, nauseous, or dangerous
to life, limb, or person, or detrimental to the health of the persons residing
within the village shall be a public nuisance.
   (D)   Anyone who owns or possesses property within the village and who has
allowed the activity prohibited by this chapter to occur on the property which
he or she owns or possesses, shall be guilty of violating this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to burn or cause to be burned any garbage,
refuse, grass clippings, or other combustible material in any manner or
container within the village except that leaves and branches from trees,
bushes, and shrubs may be burned in the fall and spring seasons as defined by
the calendar in the given year, only between the hours of sunrise and sunset
and in compliance with §
130.13.
(1977 Code, § 6-5-1)  (Ord. passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
92.99
WEEDS
§ 92.15  LIABILITY FOR SERVICES.
   The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for services rendered on the premises by the village.
(1977 Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 92.16  CUTTING GRASS, WEEDS; DELINQUENT CHARGES.
   (A)   All property in the village shall be mowed. In the event that any lot,
block, or parcel of ground is left to grow and go to seed, the village reserves
the right to cut the same and prior to cutting of the grass and weeds, the
village should mail a notice to the owner of record a notice by certified mail
that the same shall be cut, and unless the same is cut within five days of the
mailing of the notice, the Village Street Commissioner or his or her agent
shall go onto the said real estate and cut the same, and the said owner shall
then be liable for the costs of same, and the Village Clerk shall then bill the
owner of record for said amounts.
   (B)   In the event charges for cutting the weeds are not paid within 30 days
after rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and
are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such delinquent charge
shall constitute a lien upon the real estate to which such services are
supplied. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn
statements showing such delinquencies in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
Woodford County and Marshall County, Illinois, and the filing of such statement
shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for service.
(1977 Code, § 7-2-3)
§ 92.17  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the term NUISANCE is defined to mean
any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the statutes of the state
or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the ordinances of this village.
   (B)   In addition, the officials of this village shall be authorized to
abate any nuisance while not specifically defined within this section which
shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarranted, or unlawful use by a person of
property, real or personal, or from his or her own improper, indecent, or
unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to the right of
another, or of the public, and produces a material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort, or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   (C)   A nuisance is also any condition or use of premises or of building
exteriors which is detrimental to the property of others or which causes or
tends to cause substantial diminution in the value of other property in the
neighborhood in which such premises are located. Nuisances include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   To deposit, keep, scatter ashes, brush, bulky wastes, construction
and demolitions wastes, garbage, other wastes, refuse, rubbish, junk, trash or
debris. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         ASHES.  Includes residue from fires used for cooking or heating
buildings.
         BRUSH.  Includes trimmings from shrubs, trees, or other woody plants.
         BULKY WASTES.  Includes auto parts, tires, wheels, mechanical
equipment, television sets, stoves, refrigerators, appliances, furniture
pieces, rubbish, construction or demolition wastes, or trees, branches, stumps,
bushes, root systems, or trimmings not constituting brush.
         CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE.  Includes lumber, plywood,
paneling, plastic board, roofing scraps, plastic, glass, concrete, nibble,
conduit, pipe, wire, or other wastes generated from the construction,
remodeling, repair, or demolition of a building, dwelling, structure, or
portion thereof,
         GARBAGE.  Includes wastes resulting from the handling, packaging,
preparation, cooking, or consumption of food.
         OTHER WASTES.  Includes any item not specifically enumerated and
defined in this section.
         REFUSE.  Includes garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky wastes, brush, and
construction and demolition wastes.
         RUBBISH.  Includes combustibles, such as paper, cardboard, cartons,
wood, boxes, excelsior, plastic, rags, cloth, bedding, leather, rubber, grass,
leaves, yard trimmings and garden wastes, or noncombustibles such as metal, tin
cans, metal foil, dirt, stone, bricks, ceramics, crockery, glass or bottles, or
combustibles thereof weighing 50 pounds or less.
      (2)   To deposit, keep, scatter, or store abandoned, discarded, or unused
objects or equipment such as furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans,
or containers;
      (3)   To deposit, keep, or store junk motor vehicles or disabled motor
vehicles which includes any vehicle, including trailers, which is without
currently valid license plates, or is in either substantially wrecked,
discarded, dismantled, inoperative, or abandoned condition or as otherwise
defined in the village ordinances;
      (4)   To keep diseased animals;
      (5)   To cause or allow the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth, or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or remain under ownership control
to the prejudice of others;
      (6)   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the
carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or
common sewer, street, or public way;
      (7)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways,
streets, alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places;
      (8)   To erect, continue, or use any building or any real estate or any
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture, which,
by occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive
or dangerous to the health of individuals or of the public;
      (9)   To advertise wares or occupation by painting notices of the same
on, or affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility
poles, or on hydrants or other public or private property, or on rocks or other
natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other
public place, without permission of the proper authorities;
      (10)   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle, or burn upon any public
property or right-of-way, highway, park, street, or parkway anywhere in the
village, any trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or
parts thereof, or miscellaneous waste;
      (11)   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats
or rodents;
      (12)   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity; and/or
      (13)   To suffer or permit any stockyard, stable, or barnyard or other
lot or premises, barn or privy, outbuilding or cellars, or other building to
become or remain dangerous or injurious to the health, offensive to smell.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.18  ALLOWING NUISANCE TO REMAIN.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of property, whether
occupied, unoccupied or vacant, to permit any nuisance to remain, regardless of
whether said owner or person in control permitted the refuse to be deposited,
buried, placed, or accumulated on the property.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his or her designee to serve
or cause to be served upon the person, persons, firm, partnership, or
corporation in actual physical control, possession, or occupation of any
private property, whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or otherwise, a
notice/citation to remove from the property, and from within the village
limits, any nuisance or abate any nuisance as defined under the terms of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.20  FORM AND METHOD OF SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   The notice/citation shall allow the person, persons, firm,
partnership, or corporation five days to remove or abate the described
nuisance; and in the event the nuisance is not so removed or abated, the
provisions of this subchapter shall apply. The notice/citation shall be given
by personal service or by certified or registered mail, addressed to the
person, persons, firm, partnership, or corporation in actual physical control,
possession, or occupation of the premises in question or engaging in the
conduct that constitutes the nuisance.
   (B)   In the event that no person, persons, firm, partnership, or
corporation shall be in actual physical control, possession, or occupation of
the property and/or the property appears to have been abandoned, the Chief of
Police may:
      (1)   Post the notice/citation on the front door of the property; and
      (2)   Enclose a copy of same in an envelope addressed to the “Current
Owners/Occupants” at the address of the property with first class postage fully
prepaid and depositing same for mailing with United States Postal Service.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.21  ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   In addition to the penalty provided for in this chapter, whenever any
person, persons, firm, partnership, or corporation fails to abate the nuisance
within the period allowed by this subchapter, then the village shall cause the
nuisance to be abated, including the right to seek injunctive relief to enjoin
the continuation of a nuisance where there is no adequate remedy at law, and
the expenses therefor shall be recoverable from the owners, jointly and
severally, and the cost thereof shall also be a lien upon the land until paid.
Any person who by reason of another’s violation of any provision of this
section suffers damage to himself or herself different from that suffered by
any other property owners throughout the village generally may bring an action
to enjoin or otherwise abate the existing violation.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.22  SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the village possessing
police powers, the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an
imminent threat of serious injury to persons or serious damage to persons or
real property, or if the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only
minor damage to the items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the
continuation of the nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or
property or a substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life
normally present in the village, the officer shall proceed to abate the
nuisance; provided, further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent, or
person in possession, charge, or control of the real or personal property which
has become a nuisance is unknown or cannot be readily found, the village
officer with police power may proceed to abate the nuisance without notice.
   (B)   Where abatement of the nuisance requires continuing acts by the
village authorities beyond the initial summary abatement and any other
additional emergency abatements, it shall seek abatement of the nuisance on a
permanent basis through judicial process as soon as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.23  RECORDING OF NOTICE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the costs and expenses are incurred by the
village for abatement, the village may file a notice of lien in the office of
the recorder of deeds of the county in which the property is located.
   (B)   The notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof for purposes of recording;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the costs and expenses incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when the costs and expenses were incurred by the
village.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.24  PAYMENT AND RELEASE.
   Upon payment of the costs and expenses by the owner or persons interested in
the property to which a lien is attached, the lien shall be released by the
village and, if notice of a lien has been filed, the village shall provide to
the owner or interested party a release that may be filed of record; provided,
however, no lien shall be released until the total costs and expenses,
including the actual costs, interest of 5% per annum to accrue from the date of
the filing of the lien in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds for the county in
which the property is located until paid, attorneys’ fees, recording fees,
filing fees, court costs, and other costs of administration and interest, are
satisfied by payment in full.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.25  DEPOSITING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, deposit, bury, throw, place
or cause to be created, deposited, buried, thrown, or placed any nuisance
within the corporate limits of the village.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26  CONTINUING NUISANCES.
   Upon receiving notice to abate, if any person, persons, firm, partnership,
or corporation corrects any and all violations under this subchapter and allows
any new violation to occur after the first violation has been corrected shall
be deemed in violation of this subchapter and subject to the listed fines
without a notice to abate for the period of one year after receiving the
original notice to abate.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
DANGEROUS AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS
§ 92.40  DETERMINATION OF FITNESS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or designee may determine that a structure is
unfit for human use or habitation, if the Chief of Police or designee finds
that conditions exist in such structures which are dangerous or injurious to
the health, safety, or general welfare of the occupants of such buildings or
other residents of the county, or which have a blighting influence on
properties in the area.
   (B)   Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accident, or other calamities; lack of
adequate ventilation; air pollution; light or sanitary facilities;
dilapidation; disrepair; structural defects; uncleanliness; overcrowding;
inadequate ingress and egress; dead and dying trees, limbs, or other unsightly
natural growth or unsightly appearances that constitute a blight to adjoining
property, the neighborhood, or the county; walls, sidings, or exteriors of a
quality and appearance not commensurate with the character of the properties in
the neighborhood; unsightly stored or parked material, equipment, supplies,
machinery, trucks, or automobiles or parts thereof; vermin infestation;
inadequate drainage; or any violation of health, fire, or building regulations,
or any other laws or regulations relating to the use of land and the use and
occupancy of buildings and improvements.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.41  CITIZEN PETITION.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Chief of Police by at least five
residents of the village charging that any structure is a dangerous and unsafe
building or uncompleted and abandoned building, the Chief of Police or designee
shall conduct an investigation to determine whether such structure constitutes
a dangerous and unsafe building or uncompleted and abandoned building.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 92.42  ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The village may demolish, repair, or enclose or cause the demolition,
repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and
abandoned buildings within the village. The Chief of Police, upon first
obtaining the written opinion of a structural engineer confirming that the
condition of the building is indeed dangerous and/or unsafe, shall apply to the
circuit court of the county in which the building is located for an order
authorizing action to be taken with respect to a building if the owner or
owners of the building, including the lien holders of record, after at least 15
days’ written notice by mail so to do, have failed to put the building in a
safe condition or to demolish it.
   (B)   In the event that access to the interior of the alleged unsafe
building is denied to the Chief of Police and the structural engineer retained
by the village, the Chief of Police shall apply to the circuit court of the
county in which the building is located for an order authorizing the Chief of
Police and the structural engineer access for purposes of conducting an
inspection to determine if the condition of the building is dangerous and/or
unsafe.
   (C)   The cost of the professional services, attorneys’ fees, court costs,
demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal incurred by the village, plus
interest of 5% per annum accruing thereon from the date of the recording of a
notice of lien, shall be recoverable as a priority lien from the real estate
upon which the building is/was located and/or the owner or owners of said real
estate or the previous owner or both if the real estate was transferred during
the 15-day notice period, if, within 180 days after the repair, demolition,
enclosure, or removal, the village shall file a notice of lien for the actual
costs, professional services, attorneys’ fees, recording fees, filing fees,
court costs, other costs and expenses incurred and interest in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds in the county in which the building is located.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-2011)
JAKE BRAKES
§ 92.55  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit the excessive, loud, unusual,
or explosive use of engine and compressed air-braking devices within designated
areas of the village.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 92.56  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE, DYNAMIC BRAKE, JAKE BRAKE, C-BRAKE, or PACCAR
BRAKE.  All refer to a transmission break or any other engine retarding brake
system that alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 92.57  PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use or operate, or
cause to be used or operated, within designated areas of the village any engine
retarding brake, compression brake, or mechanical exhaust device designed to
aid in the braking or deceleration of any vehicle that results in excessive,
loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle, unless such use is
necessary to avoid imminent danger. Such prohibition shall be applicable only
to those public highways or portions specifically identified in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.58  AREAS OF PROHIBITION.
   The prohibition set forth herein shall apply to the following public
highways in the village or portions thereof:  Illinois State Highway 89,
including those parts known as West Parkside Drive, South Jefferson Street,
North Jefferson Street and East State Street.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 92.59  SIGNAGE.
   (A)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “ENGINE BRAKE ORDINANCE
ENFORCED” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the Board of
Supervisors to advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this
subchapter upon the proper application and permission from the state’s
Department of Transportation.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be in force and effect even if
no signs are installed upon the date of passage and first publication.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 92.60  EXCEPTION.
   Emergency vehicles shall be exempt from the application of this subchapter.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Anyone who violates any provision of this §
92.01 shall be punished by a fine of not less than $25 nor more than $500 for
each offense. Each day that a violation of §
92.01 occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   If a person, persons, firm, partnership, or corporation allows a
nuisance to exist, as defined in §
92.18, and fails to abate the nuisance by removing the nuisance from the
property as well as from within the village limits within the period allowed by
this chapter, then, upon conviction thereof, the person, persons, firm,
partnership, or corporation shall be fined not less than $150 for the first
offense, $250 for the second offense, and $500 for each additional offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the
nuisance is permitted to exist.
   (D)   The penalty for a violation of §
92.26 shall be a fine of not less than $150 for the first offense, $250 for the
second offense, and $500 for each additional offense. Each item or occurrence
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   Any driver and/or the firm or corporation for whom the driver is
employed who shall violate any provisions of §§
92.55 through
92.60 shall, upon conviction thereof, be summoned to pay a fine of $100 along
with any court costs through the Woodford or Marshall County Court,
respectively. Every day that a violation of §§
92.55 through
92.60 takes place shall constitute a separate offense.
(1977 Code, § 6-5-2)  (Ord. 78-3, passed 7-10-1978; Ord. 11-02, passed 6-13-
2011; Ord. 14-02, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
   
93.01   Offensive premises
§ 93.01  OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises in the
village to suffer any stable, pen, or place where any domestic animals or fowls
are kept upon such premises to become nauseous, foul, offensive, or injurious
to the public health, or to his or her neighbors.
(1977 Code, § 7-1-6)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Declaration of policy
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace, and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 5-12-1997)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS.  Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION.  Any difference expressed in any way toward
a person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION.  Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER.  Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in any real estate or who hold legal or equitable title to
shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative which
owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER.  Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or
housing accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village of Washburn,
Illinois.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 5-12-1997)
§ 94.03  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange, rental, or any dealing concerning any housing accommodation
and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute, or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale, the
anticipated listing for sale, or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 5-12-1997)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-2, passed 5-12-1997)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
      
112.   ENTERTAINMENT
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
115.   ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Licensing
   
110.01   License subject to ordinances; revocation
   
110.02   Nontransferable
   
110.03   Term; application; fee
   
110.04   License specifications
   
110.05   Register of licenses
   
110.06   Show license upon demand
   
110.07   Definition
Disclosures
   
110.20   Required disclosures
   
110.21   Time of submittal
   
110.22   Assignment
   
110.23   Public inspection
   
110.24   Building permit exempted
Occupation Taxes
   
110.35   Service occupation tax
   
110.36   Retailers’ occupation tax
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LICENSING
§ 110.01  LICENSE SUBJECT TO ORDINANCES; REVOCATION.
   All licenses which may be issued under any ordinances of the village shall
be subject to all ordinances in force at the date of their issue, and which
shall be passed during the continuance of such license; and all licenses so
granted may be revoked by the President and Board of Trustees upon a
satisfactory showing that the party licensed has violated any provision of any
ordinance.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-1)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.02  NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license shall be transferable, and no person shall act under any license
but the one to whom it is issued, nor at any other place nor time than is
specified in said license.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-2)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.03  TERM; APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for a longer period than one year, nor
shall any license, in any case, extend beyond the year in which it shall be
granted; and each license shall date from the day of the issuing thereof. No
person shall be deemed to be licensed until the license money has been fully
paid, a receipt given therefor, and the license issued.
   (B)   Any person desiring a license shall make written application to the
Village Clerk, stating the purpose for which the same is desired, for what
length of time, where his or her business is to be conducted, and, if required
by any ordinance, he or she shall file the required bond or bonds, which shall
be approved by the President and the Village Clerk before a license shall be
issued.
   (C)   When all the requirements of division (B) above have been complied
with, the Village Clerk shall issue an order to the Village Treasurer requiring
him or her to receive the license fee, which order shall state the name of the
licensee, the purpose for which the license is issued, the time, the amount,
and that the applicant has fully complied with all provisions of this code.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-3)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.04  LICENSE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All licenses shall be issued by the Clerk under the corporate seal and
shall be signed by the Clerk. Each license shall state the name of the person
licensed, for what purpose licensed, the place of business, the date of the
license, the amount paid therefor, and the time it shall expire.
   (B)   Before any license shall issue, the person desiring the same shall
present to the Village Treasurer the order required in §
110.03(B) and shall also pay to the Treasurer the amount required for such
license, taking his or her receipt therefor; upon the presentation of said
receipt to the Clerk, he or she shall issue the license; provided that, when by
any ordinance it shall be necessary for the President to approve any bond, or
for the President and Board of Trustees to pass upon the question of issuing
any license, the Clerk shall not issue the same until so ordered by the
President or President and Board, which license shall be in substance as
follows.
   STATE OF ILLINOIS WOODFORD County,    )
   Village of Washburn,                ) SS.
   TO ALL WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME GREETING:
   Know ye, that _____________________, having made proper application, and
having in all respects complied with the provisions of this Village Code,
therefore the said ______________ is hereby authorized and licensed to
_________ at _________ in the Village from _________ 20 _____, Nevertheless,
this license is granted upon the express condition that if the said
_____________ shall observe and obey all provisions of this Village Code which
are or may be in force regulating or relating to said business, then this
license shall be valid for that period; otherwise it may be revoked at the
option of the President and Board of Trustees.
   Witness our hands, and the Seal of the Village at Washburn, this
____________ day of______ A.D. 20____.
   ________________ Village Clerk                        _______________
President
(1977 Code, § 3-1-4)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.05  REGISTER OF LICENSES.
   The Clerk shall keep a register of all licenses issued, which shall show the
name of the person, for what purpose licensed, the amount paid therefor, the
place of business, the date of license, and the time of its expiration.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-5)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.06  SHOW LICENSE UPON DEMAND.
   Every person licensed under the provisions of this code shall, upon demand,
show his or her license to the Village Commissioner at any time, and to any
special police officer when upon duty. Any person neglecting or refusing so to
do shall be fined not less than $3 nor more than $25 for each offense.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-6)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 110.07  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAY.  The time between the issuing the license and 12:00 midnight next
following.
(1977 Code, § 3-1-7)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
DISCLOSURES
§ 110.20  REQUIRED DISCLOSURES.
   No transaction involving: sales, purchases, leases of real property;
contracts with the village requiring Village Board approval; vacations of
public ways; zoning district amendments; variations, special uses or planned
developments; subdivisions, re-subdivisions, or consolidations of parcels of
land; or facade grants and/or loans, shall be considered by any employee,
commission, board, or Board of Trustees unless the person or entity applying
for the relief or approval discloses, among other matters, the following
information:
   (A)   If for the purchase by the village of the property, the name of any
and all current holders of legal or beneficial title to the property in
question;
   (B)   If there is a contract pending for the sale by the village of the
property, the name of the purchasing party and all current holders of legal or
beneficial title to the property in question;
   (C)   The name of the party making application; and
   (D)   With respect to divisions (A), (B), and (C) above, the following shall
apply:
      (1)   “Holder of title” shall mean each and every legal or beneficial
owner;
      (2)   If any party whose name is required is an entity other than a
natural person, then the application shall disclose the name of every natural
person holding a greater than 3% interest in the entity and every director,
officer, and manager of such entity. If the entity is a limited partnership or
a limited liability corporation, then the name of every limited or general
partner shall be disclosed. If such limited or general partner is a corporate
entity, then the name of every person holding a greater than 3% interest in
that corporation shall be disclosed;
      (3)   “Name” shall mean name and business address;
      (4)   If during the course of the approval process, changes are made in
the above information, there shall be a continuing requirement to update the
information; and
      (5)   The name of any village employee or official who has acted as or
intends to act as a consultant or vendor to any of the persons or entities
required to be disclosed in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(4) above.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 110.21  TIME OF SUBMITTAL.
   All disclosures of information required by this subchapter shall be
submitted at the time of application for the consideration sought. In each
instance, the material shall, in turn, be submitted to the Village Board prior
to the Board acting on the matter. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to keep the disclosure information current until such time as the
Village Board has taken final action.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 110.22  ASSIGNMENT.
   The assignment or transfer or agreement to assign or transfer any right,
interest, or permit within one year of the Board’s final action shall raise a
rebuttable presumption that the transfer was to a person or entity in
constructive control of the applicant at the time of application. In the event
such entity was not disclosed prior to the Board’s original action, the penalty
set forth in this section shall be applicable.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 110.23  PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   A copy of each disclosure statement filed in the course of a transaction
shall be made available for public inspection upon application to the office of
the Village Clerk during the regular business hours of said office, and shall
be included among the posted materials on the village’s website in advance of
the meeting at which the application will be discussed or acted upon.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 110.24  BUILDING PERMIT EXEMPTED.
   These requirements shall not apply to the application for a building permit.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
OCCUPATION TAXES
§ 110.35  SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either in the form of
tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident to a
sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of Home Rule Municipal
Service Occupation Tax Act, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   All persons required to account for the village service occupation tax
shall file shall file the report required by § 9 of the Service Occupation Tax
Act, 35 ILCS 115/9, by the deadline set by that section.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed.
(1977 Code, § 3-6-1)  (Ord. 69-3, passed 8-11-1969)
§ 110.36  RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property at retail in the village at the rate of 1%
of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of Home Rule
Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Every person engaged in such business in the village shall file the
report required by § 3 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 120/3, by
the deadline set by that section.
   (C)   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(1977 Code, § 3-6-2)  (Ord. 69-2, passed 8-11-1969)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Upon finding that an applicant has failed to comply with the provisions of
§§
110.20 through
110.24, the Village Board may declare the Board action on behalf of such
applicant void and may direct the initiation of legal action for violation
which shall be punishable by fine in an amount between $25 per day and$500 per
day. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day upon which
required information was withheld.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 8-13-2007)
CHAPTER 111: TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
111.03   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
111.04   Collection, enforcement, and administration of fees
   
111.05   Compliance with other laws
   
111.06   Existing franchises and licenses
   
111.07   Enforcement
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.  The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act
or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money, whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expenses whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-office
channel provided within the village. However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
         (a)   The fee imposed by this section;
         (b)   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under §§ 9-221 or
9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-221 and 5/9-222;
         (c)   Amounts collected under the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax, 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.;
         (d)   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 35
ILCS 630/1 et seq.;
         (e)   911 surcharges; or
         (f)   The tax imposed by 26 U.S.C. § 4251 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act 220 ILCS. 5/9-222.1, to the extent of such exemption and
during the period of time specified by the village;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunications
devices; and/or
      (9)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the village.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any municipal street, alley, water, or public right-
of-way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (OR ANY LIKE TERM). 
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of Illinois,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent
or other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this State.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL.  The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS.  The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems, and the like. SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the
customer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  Includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone
service, channel services, computer exchange services, private line services,
specialized mobile radio services, or any other transmission of messages or
information by electronic or similar means, between or among points by wire,
cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar facilities.
Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also
include wireless telecommunications as hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
shall not include value added services in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the
information for purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider
for use as a component part of the service provided by him or her to the
ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end
communications. Retailer access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision and used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for
resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include the provision of cable services
through a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or
other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the
village through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 C.F.R. § 76.1500 and the following) as now or
hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.  Any telecommunications retailer and any person
that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs, owns, operates, or
controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or designed to be
used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER, RETAILER, OR CARRIER.  Includes every person
engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as
defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the village.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS.  Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996 (Pub. L. No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), as now or hereafter
amended, including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.02  REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider as defined by §
111.01 shall register with the village within 30 days after the effective date
of this chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later,
on a form to be provided by the village; provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
111.04(C) shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
111.04(C), as the case may be, to the village within 30 days from the date of
the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the village.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.03  MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service addresses within
the village for telecommunications originating or received in the village.
   (B)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee authorized hereunder shall
be the only fee or compensation for the use of all public rights-of-way within
the village by telecommunications retailers. Imposition of the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided under this chapter does not, however, serve as a
limitation on the levying of any taxes or imposition of any fees otherwise
authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in §
111.04.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.04  COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION OF FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the Village President, the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the
village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for
expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return in a form to be prescribed by the Village President
which shall contain such information as the Village President may reasonably
require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under division
(A) above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the Village President may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit; however, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment, unless the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations and the credit derives from an overpayment made
by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period
of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in § 8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   Gross charges for purpose of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, 35 ILCS 636/
5-1 et seq.; or
      (4)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in § 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus 5% of the
total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs
incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 5%
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall
be paid to the village within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice
for same.
   (H)   The Village President, or his or her designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this chapter consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to §
111.02 of such regulations.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.05  COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under, within, or use of, or
repair of, the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free
standing towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as
provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, within,
or use of, or repair of, the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.06  EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges, or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have or enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 97-4, passed 11-10-1997)
CHAPTER 112: ENTERTAINMENT
Section
Amusements
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Fee
   
112.03   Application
   
112.04   Hours of operation
Circuses and Exhibitions
   
112.15   Definition
   
112.16   License required
   
112.17   License fees
 
   
112.99   Penalty
AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, within the village, by himself or herself, his or her agent, or
otherwise, shall establish, keep, or maintain in a place of public resort any
billiard table; pool table; bowling alley; shooting gallery; table game;
amusement device operated with a coin or slug; any device to produce or
reproduce music, coin-operated or otherwise; or any place of amusement
containing devices of like nature that is open to the public without first
having obtained a license therefor.
(1977 Code, § 3-3-1)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  FEE.
   The annual license fee for any license, as enumerated in §
112.01, shall be $5 for each place of business containing any item or device
mentioned in §
112.04 and shall be payable in advance on May 1 of each year.
(1977 Code, § 3-3-2)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 112.03  APPLICATION.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk
and shall state thereon the intended location of the place of business and the
number and type of tables, alleys, or other amusement devices to be contained
therein.
(1977 Code, § 3-3-3)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 112.04  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall keep open, operate, or use any place of amusement mentioned
in this subchapter between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 12:00 noon on
Sundays, or between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on all other
days.
(1977 Code, § 3-3-4)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
112.99
CIRCUSES AND EXHIBITIONS
§ 112.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIRCUS, SIDESHOW, or EXHIBITION.  Include every building, tent, space, or
area where feats of horsemanship, acrobatic sports, or animals are exhibited;
every building, tent, space, or area where any feats or tricks of legerdemain
are performed or where any other amusement or entertainment is made to attract
persons or where any money or other valuable thing is charged for admission
thereto, accompanying or traveling with any circus, and the like.
(1977 Code, § 3-4-1)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 112.16  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall, within the limits of the village, establish, keep,
maintain, or exhibit any public show, circus, sideshow, exhibition, or place of
amusement where money or anything of value is charged for admission thereto,
without having first obtained a license therefor.
(1977 Code, § 3-4-2)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   For the exhibition of every sideshow, circus, exhibition, or place of
amusement within the limits of the village there shall be taxed and collected
as a license therefor the sum of $5 per day.
   (B)   For all other exhibitions or places of amusement where money or other
valuable thing is charged for admission thereto not otherwise provided for in
this subchapter, there shall be taxed and collected as a license therefor the
sum of $2 per day.
(1977 Code, § 3-4-3)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this §§
112.01 through
112.04 shall be subject to a penalty in an amount between $25 and $500 for each
offense, and each day of illegal operation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1977 Code, § 3-3-5)  (Ord. 5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Village policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the village and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the village.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale or
making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from and any public place within the village.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the village.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Village Trustees.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the village;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4) The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or grown
and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the village, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contract will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.05  REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.07  APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 shall have the right to appeal to the Village Trustees. The appeal shall
be taken by filing with the Village Trustees, within 14 days after notice of
the decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Village Trustees shall set
the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05.
   (B)   The order of the Village Trustees after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.08  EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the village shall be used to conduct the business
licensed, separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he is
engaged in the business licensed.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village that the occupants of
the residences in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.10  NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)
§ 113.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the village upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12  PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 above.
(Ord. 16-04, passed 8-8-2016)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Adult uses enumerated
   
114.03   Limitations on adult uses
   
114.04   Measurements of distances
   
114.05   License required, application, fee
   
114.06   Contents of application for license
   
114.07   Issuance of license
   
114.08   Suspension or revocation of license
   
114.09   Automatic suspension
   
114.10   Exterior display
   
114.11   Display of license and permit
   
114.12   Employment of minors prohibited
   
114.13   Illegal activities on premises
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK STORE.  An establishment having a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on the premises by
use of motion picture devices or any other coin-operated means, and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”, or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET.  A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers and/or waitresses, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar
entertainers.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation
by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting motion pictures having
as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons therein.
   BODY SHOP or MODEL STUDIO.  Any public or private establishment which
describes itself as a body shop or model studio, or where for any form of
consideration or gratuity, figure models who display “specified anatomical
areas” are provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarity depicted by persons paying such considerations or
gratuity, or where for any form of consideration or gratuity, nude and semi-
nude dancing, readings, counseling sessions, body painting, and other
activities that present materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on matter depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas” are provided for observation by or
communication to persons paying such consideration or gratuity.
   BUILDING STRUCTURE.  Any structure or group of structures housing two or
more businesses which share a common entry, exit, wall, or frontage wall
including, but not limited to, shopping centers, shopping malls, shopping
plazas, or shopping squares.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts or representations of acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation.
      (3)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock, or female breast.
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-1)
§ 114.02  ADULT USES ENUMERATED.
   The following shall be considered adult uses for the purpose of this
chapter:
   (A)   Adult book store;
   (B)   Adult motion picture theater;
   (C)   Adult mini motion picture theater;
   (D)   Adult entertainment cabaret;
   (E)   Massage establishment; and
   (F)   Body shop or model studio.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-2)
§ 114.03  LIMITATIONS ON ADULT USES.
   Adult uses shall be permitted subject to the following restrictions.
   (A)   An adult use shall not be allowed within 500 feet of another existing
adult use.
   (B)   An adult use shall not be located within 700 feet of any zoning
district which is zoned for Residential Suburban (R-S), Single-Family (R-1),
Two-Family (R-2), or Multi-Family (R-3) residential use.
   (C)   An adult use shall not be located within 500 feet of a pre-existing
school or place of worship.
   (D)   An adult use shall not be located in a building structure which
contains another business that sells or dispenses in some manner alcoholic
beverages.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-3)
§ 114.04  MEASUREMENTS OF DISTANCES.
   For the purposes of this chapter, measurements shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property
line of the adult use to the nearest property line of another adult use,
school, place of worship, or district for residential use.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-4)
§ 114.05  LICENSE REQUIRED, APPLICATION, FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct, or carry
on, or to permit to be engaged in, conducted, or carried on, in or upon any
premises in the village, the operation of an adult use as herein defined,
without first having obtained a separate license for such adult use from the
President of the village.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate, or conduct an
adult use shall file an application in duplicate under oath with the President
upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and pay a nonrefundable filing fee of
$750 to the Village Treasurer, who shall issue a receipt which shall be
attached to the application filed with the President.
   (C)   Within ten days after receiving the application, the President shall
notify the applicant that his or her application is granted, denied, or held
for further investigation. Such additional investigation shall not exceed an
additional 30 days, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon the
conclusion of such additional investigation, the President shall advise the
applicant in writing whether the application is granted or denied.
   (D)   Whenever an application is denied or held for further investigation,
the President shall advise the applicant in writing of the reasons for such
action.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
said application or his or her refusal to submit to, or cooperate with, any
inspection or investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an
admission by the applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and
shall be grounds for denial thereof by the President.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-5)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06  CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An applicant for a license shall furnish the following information under
oath:
   (A)   Name and address;
   (B)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age; and
   (C)   The exact nature of the adult use to be conducted and the proposed
place of business and facilities thereto.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-6)
§ 114.07  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The President shall issue a license to maintain, operate, or conduct
an adult use unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years or under any legal
disability; or
      (2)   The applicant, at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued under this chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon
a first application.
   (B)   Every adult use license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate
at the expiration of one year from the date of its issuance, unless sooner
revoked.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-7)
§ 114.08  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued for an adult use may be revoked or suspended by the
President, if the President shall find that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
regulating adult uses; or
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly furnished false or misleading
information or withheld relevant information on any application for any license
or permit required by this chapter or knowingly caused or suffered another to
furnish or withhold such information on his or her behalf.
   (B)   The President, before revoking or suspending any license, shall give
the licensee at least ten days’ written notice of the charges against him or
her and the opportunity for a public hearing before the President, at which
time the licensee may present evidence bearing upon the question. In such
cases, the charges shall be specific and in writing.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-8)
§ 114.09  AUTOMATIC SUSPENSION.
   (A)   In the event a person under the age of 18 years is on the premises of
an establishment operating as an adult use under this chapter and views any
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” as defined in §
114.01, then the license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be suspended for
a period of three months.
   (B)   In the event a licensee is convicted of violating any of the
provisions of §
92.01, as now in force, or as may be amended from time to time, the license
issued pursuant to this chapter shall be suspended for a period of three
months.
   (C)   The President, before suspending any license, shall give at least ten
days’ written notice of the charge. The licensee may, within five days of
receipt of said notice, request a public hearing before the President at which
time the licensee may present evidence bearing upon the question. The notice
required hereunder may be delivered personally to the licensee or be posted on
the premises of the establishment being used as an adult use.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-9)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 114.10  EXTERIOR DISPLAY.
   No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation
of any material depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” by display, decoration, sign, show
window, or other opening from any public way or from any property not licensed
as an adult use.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-10)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.11  DISPLAY OF LICENSE AND PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall display a valid license in a conspicuous place within
the adult use business so that the same may be readily seen by persons entering
the premises.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-11)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)
§ 114.12  EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult use licensee or his or her manager or
employee to employ in any capacity within the adult business any person who is
not at least 18 years of age.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-12)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.13  ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES ON PREMISES.
   No licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or
employee of such licensee shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any
other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the licensed
premises which is prohibited by any ordinance of the village or law of the
state or of the United States.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-13)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a fine
in an amount between $25and $500 or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1977 Code, § 3-7-15)  (Ord. 81-9-1, passed 8-10-1981)
CHAPTER 115: ALCOHOL
Section
Licensing
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required for retail sale of liquor
   
115.03   Application; contents
   
115.04   Restrictions on licenses
   
115.05   Classification of licenses; fee; closing hours
   
115.06   Duration of license
   
115.07   License fees
   
115.08   Record of licenses issued; notice to certain officers
   
115.09   Licenses not to constitute property; not transferable; renewal
   
115.10   Change of location
   
115.11   Revocation by president
   
115.12   License to be posted
Regulations
   
115.25   Consumption on premises
   
115.26   Sanitary condition of premises
   
115.27   View from street
   
115.28   Sales to minors prohibited
   
115.29   Minors in possession prohibited
   
115.30   Minors; employment and loitering
   
115.31   Entry onto premises
   
115.32   Unlawful consumption, possession
   
115.33   Certain forms of nudity prohibited
   
115.34   Certain acts prohibited
   
115.35   Showing of certain films, pictures prohibited
   
115.36   Reporting of incidents; telephone on premises
 
   
115.99   Penalty
LICENSING
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.  Any spirits, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume, which is fit for beverage purposes.
   BEER.  A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt, and hops in water and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter, and the like.
   CLUB.  Any corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used, and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, having a valid charter of a
national not-for-profit club or organization, or if not having such a charter,
having been a valid Illinois not-for-profit corporation for the past 24 months,
and owning, hiring, or leasing a building, or space in a building, of such
extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and
comfortable use and accommodation of its members and their guests; provided,
that such club files with the President of the Board of Trustees, at the time
of its application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of
the names and residence of its members; and provided further, that its affairs
and management are conducted by a Board of Directors, Executive Committee, or
similar body chosen by the members.
   RESTAURANT.  Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE.  The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale.
   WINE.  Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 115.02  LICENSE REQUIRED FOR RETAIL SALE OF LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer’s license or club
license, or in violation of the terms of such license.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-2)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03  APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Mayor in writing, signed
by the applicant, if an individual, or by the duly authorized agent thereof, if
a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the
following information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and, if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the
name and address of such person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   (D)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application and
the disposition of such application;
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license, by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state, or the provisions of this code;
   (I)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
   (J)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States, or any provision of this code in the conduct of
his or her place of business.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 115.04  RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not an inhabitant of the village at the time
application is made;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill-fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof, or shall have forfeited his or her
bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (L)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (M)   Any law enforcing public official, any member of the Village Board who
shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (N)   Any person, association, or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealers license; or
   (O)   Any person, firm, or corporation operating billiard, pool, or card
tables shall not be eligible for a Class A license.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 115.05  CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEE; CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Such licenses shall be and hereby divided into four classes, to-writ:
      (1)   Class A licenses, five licenses only, which shall authorize the
retail sale on the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises as well as retail sales of such liquor. The annual fee for such
license shall be $450, payable in advance;
      (2)   Class B license, four licenses and four licenses only, which shall
authorize the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, but not for consumption on the
premises where sold. The annual fee for such license shall be $400, payable in
advance;
      (3)   Class C license, two licenses and two licenses only, which shall
authorize the retail sale on the premises of alcoholic liquors in any club for
consumption on the premises. The annual fee for such licenses shall be $50,
payable in advance; and
      (4)   Class D licence, two licenses and two licenses only, which shall
authorize the retail sale of beer and wine in an outdoor location as part of a
public activity which has been approved by the Board of Trustees. Class D
licenses shall only be issued to civic, patriotic, fraternal, educational,
religious, or benevolent organizations which have been in active and continuous
existence for at least one year prior to the making of such application and
which have been incorporated under the laws of the state. Applicants of Class D
licenses shall submit proof of adequate dram shop insurance as required by the
Illinois Liquor Control Act of 1934, as it is now or may hereafter be amended,
prior to being issued such license. All applicants for a Class D license shall
be filed at least four weeks prior to the event. The Mayor, however, may waive
the four week filing requirement should he or she find that sufficient time
remains prior to the event for the village and state to process the
application. The fee for such license shall be $25, payable in advance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the holders of Class B and Class C licenses
to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Thursday and between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for holders of Class A licenses to sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village between the hours of 1:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Monday through Thursday and between the hours of 2:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday with the exception of the
morning of January 1 of each year when all Class A licenses may sell or offer
for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the village until 3:00 a.m.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the public
to any premises in or on which beer, wine, or other alcoholic liquor is sold at
retail during the hours within which the sale of such beer, wine, or other
alcoholic liquor is prohibited; provided that, in the case of restaurants,
clubs, and hotels, such establishments may be kept open during such hours, but
no beer, wine, or other alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the
public during such hours.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-5)  (Ord. passed 12-20-1982; Ord. passed 1-12-1987; Ord.
1996-6, passed 6-10-1996; Ord. 00-10, passed 5-8-2000; Ord. 01-01, passed 2-12-
2001; Ord. 05-07, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 06-07, passed 3-13-2006)  Penalty, see
§
115.99
§ 115.06  DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Each Class A, Class B, or Class C license shall terminate on April 30 next
following its issuance. All Class D liquor licenses shall be for a period of 12
hours only, and the license shall provide on its face the 12-hour period for
which it is in force. All applications for Class D liquor licenses must be made
at least ten days prior to the period during which it will be in force.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-7)  (Ord. 00-10, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 115.07  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All license fees shall be paid to the President at the time
application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer.
   (B)   In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant; if the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the General Fund or in such other fund as shall have been
designated by the Board by proper action.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-8)
§ 115.08  RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED; NOTICE TO CERTAIN OFFICERS.
   The President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him or her; and shall furnish the Clerk, Treasurer, and
Chief of Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of any new license,
or the revocation of any old license, the President shall give written notice
of such action to each of the above-named officers within 48 hours of such
action.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-9)
§ 115.09  LICENSES NOT TO CONSTITUTE PROPERTY; NOT TRANSFERABLE; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall be good for
the time specified therein unless sooner revoked, and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution; nor
shall it be alienable or transferrable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or
subject to being encumbered or hypothecated.
   (B)   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture
of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the
privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of
such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such
license, but no longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy, or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-10)
§ 115.10  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   (A)   A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license. Such
location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued
by the President.
   (B)   No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this state and the provisions of this code.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-11)
§ 115.11  REVOCATION BY PRESIDENT.
   The President may revoke any retail liquor dealer’s license for any
violation of any provision of this chapter, or for any violation of any state
law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-15)
§ 115.12  LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   Every person who shall obtain a license under this subchapter shall at all
times keep the same hung or posted in some conspicuous place in his or her
tavern, or other place of business, where said liquors are sold.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-18)  Penalty, see §
115.99
REGULATIONS
§ 115.25  CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a Class A license to sell or
offer for sale any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold,
or to permit the same to be consumed on the premises where sold.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-6)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.26  SANITARY CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the code provisions regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-12)
§ 115.27  VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article,
or thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such premises
nor inside such licensed premises which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road, or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street, road, or sidewalk, and said premises must be so
located that there shall be a full view of the entire interior of such premises
from the street, road, or sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the
premises, shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light
or artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises
shall be clearly visible.
      (2)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him or
her wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
      (3)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the President
shall have the right to require the filing with him or her of plans, drawings,
and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-13)
§ 115.28  SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall sell give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any person under
21 years of age.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-14)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.29  MINORS IN POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 21 years of age to purchase,
consume, or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have liquor in his or her
possession. For the purpose of this section, the presence in a vehicle other
than a public omnibus of any alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence
that it is in the possession of, and is being carried by, all persons occupying
such vehicle at the time at which such alcoholic liquor is found, except where
such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 3-10-2008)  Penalty, see 115.99
§ 115.30  MINORS; EMPLOYMENT AND LOITERING.
   No person licensed to sell liquor by retail, as hereinbefore provided, shall
employ any minor as a clerk or bartender in or about his or her place of
business, nor shall he or she harbor, entice, or permit any minor not
accompanied by his or her parent, nor any insane, or intoxicated person, to
loiter or remain in or about his or her place of business.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-16)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31  ENTRY ONTO PREMISES.
   All persons licensed to sell liquors, as aforesaid, shall be required to
permit the President or any police officer of said village to enter his or her
premises or place of business at any time such President or police officer may
deem proper in the discharge of any duty imposed upon them by the laws of the
state or the ordinances of said village.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-19)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.32  UNLAWFUL CONSUMPTION, POSSESSION.
   (A)   Liquor consumption restricted. No person shall consume any alcoholic
liquor in any public place within the village except on premises which hold
Class A or Class C liquor licenses as defined in §
115.05.
   (B)   Open containers. It shall be unlawful for any person to carry any
alcoholic liquors in an unsealed or opened container from the licensed premises
where such alcoholic liquor was purchased.
   (C)   Violation. No licensee or person, as proprietor, agent, servant, or
employee of such licensee, shall knowingly permit any patron to violate
division (B) above, nor continue to sell alcoholic liquors to such person
knowing that such person intends to carry the alcoholic liquor from the
premises in an open or unsealed container.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-20)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.33  CERTAIN FORMS OF NUDITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee for on-premises consumption under this
chapter to suffer or permit any person to appear on the licensed premises, or
in any area which can be viewed from the premises, in such manner or attire as
to expose to view any portion of the pubic area, anus, vulva, or genitals, or
any simulation thereof, nor shall suffer or permit any female to appear on the
licensed premises in such manner or attire as to expose to view any portion of
the breast below the top of the areola or simulation thereof. (See § 4-1 of the
Liquor Control Act of 1934, 235 ILCS 5/4-1.)
(1977 Code, § 3-2-21)  (Ord. 81-9-2, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.34  CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee for on-premises consumption under this
chapter to surfer or permit any person to perform on the premises, or in any
area which can be viewed from the premises, acts of or acts which simulate:
   (A)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,
flagellation, or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
   (B)   The touching, caressing, or fondling of the breasts, buttocks, anus,
or genitals;
   (C)   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals; and/or
   (D)   To permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who
commits any of the acts described herein or allows another person to commit
upon his or her body any of the acts described herein. (See 235 ILCS 5/4-1.)
(1977 Code, § 3-2-22)  (Ord. 81-9-2, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.35  SHOWING OF CERTAIN FILMS, PICTURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee for on-premises consumption under this
chapter to suffer or permit the showing on the premises, or in any area which
can be viewed from the premises, of film, still pictures, electronic
reproduction, or other visual reproductions depicting:
   (A)   Acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy,
bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law;
   (B)   Any person being touched, caressed, or fondled on the breast, buttock,
anus, or genitals;
   (C)   Scene wherein a person displays the vulva or the anus or the genitals;
and/or
   (D)   Scene wherein artificial devices or inanimate objects are employed to
depict or drawings are employed to portray any of the prohibited activities
described herein. (See 235 ILCS 5/4-1.)
(1977 Code, § 3-2-23)  (Ord. 81-9-2, passed 8-10-1981)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.36  REPORTING OF INCIDENTS; TELEPHONE ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Each licensee and each of his or her agents and employees shall
promptly report to the Police Department any incident occurring on or about the
licensed premises and in his or her knowledge or view relating to the
commission of any crime, including any violation of this chapter and shall
truthfully and fully answer all questions and investigations of any identified
police officer who makes inquiry concerning any persons in or about the
licensed premises, and cooperate fully in any such investigation including the
giving of any oral or written statements at any such reasonable times and in
such reasonable locations to any police officer engaged in said investigation.
   (B)   Each licensee shall maintain on each licensed premises not less than
one telephone in operating order which phone must be within the easy access of
the bartender or other responsible person in charge of the premises at all
times for the purpose of reporting to the Police Department incidents occurring
on or about the licensed premises.
   (C)   The penalty for any violation of §
115.36 shall be imposed pursuant to §
115.99(A).
(1977 Code, § 3-2-25)  (Ord. passed 2-13-1989)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, club, association, partnership, or corporation
licensed by the village to sell or dispense alcoholic liquor at retail
violating any provision of this chapter, with the exception of violations of §§
115.12,
115.31, and
115.32, shall be fined not less than  $10 nor more than $200 for each offense,
and the President may suspend any retail liquor dealer’s license up to 30 days
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-17)
   (B)   Any person failing, neglecting, or refusing to comply with §
115.12 shall forfeit and pay not less than $10 nor more than $25 for each
offense.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-18)
   (C)   (1)   The first offense of §
115.29 shall result in a fine of $300 which shall be reduced to $150 if paid to
the village within 30 days immediately after the date of issuance of the
citation.
      (2)   A second or subsequent offense of §
115.29 shall result in the officer prosecuting the offense as an alleged
violation of state statutes and not as a violation of this code.
   (D)   If any person licensed to sell liquors as aforesaid shall refuse to
permit the President or any police officer to enter into or upon his or her
place of business or premises as provided in §
115.31, he or she shall, on conviction, forfeit and pay not less than $25 nor
more than $100; and, in addition thereto, the license of such person may be
suspended or revoked as hereinbefore provided.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-19)
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of §
115.32 shall be fined not less than $50 and not more than $250 for each
offense.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-20)
   (F)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
115.33 through
115.35 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of §§
115.33 through
115.35 shall be subject to the provisions of §
115.11.
(1977 Code, § 3-2-24)
(Ord. 81-9-2, passed 8-10-1981)  (Ord. passed 7-11-1988)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OBSCENITY
      
132.   GAMBLING
      
133.   CURFEW
      
134.   SOCIAL GATHERINGS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Assault and battery
   
130.02   Destroying birds and bird nests
   
130.03   Fire restrictions   
   
130.04   Gambling
   
130.05   Officers; obstructing, impersonating
   
130.06   Posting bills
   
130.07   Racing engines, spinning wheels
   
130.08   Riding bicycles on sidewalks
   
130.09   Storage of flammables
   
130.10   Storage of junk in residential areas
   
130.11   Streets, sidewalks, watercourses; offenses
   
130.12   Throwing, shooting missiles
   
130.13   Unlawful assemblies; disturbing the peace
   
130.14   Minors in possession of tobacco prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Entertainment, see
Chapter 112
   Health and sanitation, see
Chapter 93
   Nuisances, see
Chapter 92
§ 130.01  ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful to commit an assault or a battery.
   (A)   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
knowingly engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of
receiving a battery.
   (B)   A person commits battery if he or she knowingly without legal
justification by any means:
      (1)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      (2)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  DESTROYING BIRDS AND BIRD NESTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the village, to
shoot or otherwise intentionally kill or destroy, or to ensnare or otherwise
capture any bluebird, swallow, martin, or other small bird, except English
sparrows; or to intentionally destroy or injure the nest or eggs of any such
bird.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-7)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  FIRE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Burn or cause to be burned any combustible material within any street,
alley, or public place in the village, or within 20 feet of any house, barn,
shed, or building;
   (B)   Construct or use in any dwelling, shed, or other building in the
village, any stovepipe, chimney, fireplace, flue, oven boiler, or other
apparatus or fixture used for or in connection with any fire, when the same
shall be in an unsafe condition;
   (C)   Knowingly make a false alarm of fire or false cry for assistance; or
   (D)   Wilfully kindle or leave any fire or to deposit or use any dangerous,
combustible, or inflammable material, liquid, or substance in such manner as to
cause damage or injury to any building or other property or in such manner as
to endanger any building or other property.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-13)  (Ord. 4, passed - -, Ord. passed 5-8-1989)  Penalty, see
§
130.99
§ 130.04  GAMBLING.
   (A)   No person shall, by himself or herself, servant, or other agent, keep,
maintain, or support any gaming house, or place used for the practice of
gaming, or to knowingly suffer or permit any premises owned or occupied by him
or her or under his or her control to be used for any such purpose.
   (B)   No person within the village shall in any manner game or raffle for
any money or thing representing or intending to represent money or spirituous
liquors, or any other valuable thing, or shall set up any lottery, or shall
dispose of for gain any ticket, chance, or share in any lottery.
   (C)   No person shall, within the village, knowingly suffer or permit any
species of gaming for money or any other thing of value; or for any check or
other thing intended to represent the same, in any house or premises owned or
occupied by him or her or under his or her control, or shall keep or have in
his or her possession any gaming implements for the purpose of gaming
therewith.
   (D)   No retailer of liquors licensed under the provisions of this code
shall, by himself or herself, his or her agent, servant, or clerk, suffer or
permit any species of gaming in any part of his or her premises or in any place
adjacent thereto under his or her control.
   (E)   No person shall be permitted to keep, exercise, or maintain any card
table, dice, bagatelle or pigeon-hole table, faro bank, or any kind of gaming
device at which or on which any game of chance is played within the village.
   (F)   No person within the village shall maintain or run, or be in any way
connected with, any establishment, enterprise, or business by whatever name the
same may be known wherein any property is sold or disposed of by chance; or
sell or dispose of any package or article purporting to contain a prize, or
where an inducement to purchase it is held out that such an article or package
may contain a prize, or may entitle the purchaser to some article or thing of
value not directly contemplated or known in the purchase; or operate or be in
any way connected with any wheel of fortune, cigar wheel, or any like device
where cigars, money, or any other article or thing of value is given as a prize
or is sold or disposed of by chance; or keep, own, rent, or use any clock,
joker, tape, or slot machine or any other device upon which money is staked or
hazarded, won or lost.
   (G)   The above not withstanding, the prohibitions provided for in this
chapter and any other chapter or section of the code that may reference or
govern gambling or gaming (including, without limitation, divisions (C), (D),
and (E) above) shall not apply to any business establishment within the village
which is properly licensed by the village and the state to sell liquor to
possess and operate any device for which a license or permit has been issued by
the Illinois Gaming Board pursuant to the Illinois Video Gaming Act, 130 ILCS
40/1 et seq., so long as such device is conducted in compliance with all
requirements of the said act and all rules and regulations of the Illinois
Gaming Board.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-14)  (Ord. 4, passed - - ; Ord. 12-04, passed 8-13-2012) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  OFFICERS; OBSTRUCTING, IMPERSONATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Willfully delay, hinder, or obstruct any officer of the village, or
any person aiding such officer in the discharge of any official duty, or to
aid, abet, or encourage any other person to perform any of the acts above
mentioned, or to neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order or directions of
such officer; and/or
   (B)   To falsely represent himself or herself to be an officer of the
village or without authority to exercise or attempt to exercise any of the
powers and duties of any village officer, or without authority to wear any
police badge of the village.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-18)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stick, nail, paint, brand, or stamp
or in any other manner put upon any house, fence, wall, pavement, or other
public or private place in the village, any written, printed, painted, or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign, or poster without having first obtained the
consent of the owner or occupant of any such house, fence, wall, pavement, or
other public or private place.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-19)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07  RACING ENGINES, SPINNING WHEELS.
   Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, races his or her motor at
a stop sign, or who spins the wheels of the motor vehicle from a standing stop
in which he or she is an operator, shall be in violation of this section.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-20)  (Ord. 66-67-1, passed 1966)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08  RIDING BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any bicycle upon any sidewalk in
the village.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-21)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09  STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or store, in excess of ten
gallons, of petroleum, naphtha, benzine, gasoline, coal, oil, or any of the
products of petroleum or any flammable or explosive oils aboveground within the
village.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-22)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10  STORAGE OF JUNK IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Junk prohibited. No person shall suffer or permit the storage or
placing of junk, lumber, building materials, machinery, salvage, wrecked, or
disabled or inoperable automobiles in the streets or in the yards of the
residential area of the village for a period of time in excess of 30 days.
   (B)   Definition. As used in the section INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE means any
motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven days, the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been removed, or which is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power or any vehicle that does not display valid license
plates, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
   (C)   Parking and storing prohibited. Inoperable motor vehicles may not be
parked, stored, or left in the open on private property unless it is necessary
for the operation of a business enterprise lawfully conducted thereon.
   (D)   Motor vehicles parts. Storing, placing, or allowing to remain in open
on streets, alleys, or private property of motor vehicle bodies, parts,
equipment, motors, and materials for a period of more than 48 hours in any one
calendar month is hereby prohibited unless necessary for the operation of
business enterprise lawfully conducted thereon.
   (E)   Nuisance. Parking or storing of inoperable motor vehicles and the
storing or allowing same to remain in the open of motor vehicle bodies, parts,
equipment, motors, and materials in violation of this section is hereby
declared to constitute a public nuisance.
   (F)   Notice to abate. The Chief of Police, or a member of the village’s
Police Department designated by the Chief of Police, is hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the person in control of any private property to relocate
any inoperable vehicles parked or stored in violation of this section to a
completely enclosed location on the property or otherwise to remove the same
from the premises. Said Chief of Police, or a member of the village’s Police
Department designated by the Chief of Police, is also hereby authorized and
empowered to notify the person in control of any private property to relocate
any motor vehicle bodies, parts, equipment, motors, and materials stored,
placed, or allowed to remain in the open in violation of this section to a
completely enclosed location on the property or otherwise to remove the same
from the premises. Such notice shall be given by certified or registered mail
addressed to the residence or usual place of business of such person, or may be
posted on the premises where the violation exists.
   (G)   Action of noncompliance. After the expiration of seven days from the
receipt of the notice provided for in the proceeding paragraph or the posting
of said notice, if the person so notified has failed, neglected, or refused to
comply with the directions of such notice, the village is hereby authorized and
empowered to pay for the removal and disposal of such vehicles, bodies, parts,
and the like, or to order the removal and disposal by the village.
   (H)   Liability for expense of disposal. In the event the village is
required to remove and dispose of the vehicles, bodies, parts and the like, the
person in control of the premises and/or the owner(s) of record shall be
jointly and severally liable to the village for the expenses incurred by the
village, including, but not necessarily limited to, towing and impoundment
fees. A statement shall be rendered to the person liable for the cost thereof
and if not paid, suit shall be instituted against the person liable and/or a
lien may be filed upon the real estate where the violation occurred.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-23)  (Ord. 3, passed 5-10-1965; Ord. 98-3, passed 11-16-
1998)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross reference:
   Abandoned vehicles, see
Chapter 90
§ 130.11  STREETS, SIDEWALKS, WATERCOURSES; OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Place, throw, or leave, or cause to be placed, thrown, or left, any
obstruction or encumbrance not authorized by law or ordinance upon any sidewalk
or in any street, avenue, or alley;
   (B)   Without permission from the Committee on Streets and Alleys, dig any
hole, drain, or ditch or connect with any sewer or drain in any street, avenue,
or alley, or to pile or cause to be piled lumber, wood, coal, stone, rock, hay,
straw, or other substance in any street, avenue, or alley;
   (C)   Injure or tear up any sidewalk, pavement, crosswalk, drain, or sewer
or any part thereof, or to hinder or obstruct the making or repairing by the
village or its agents of any sidewalk, pavement, crosswalk, drain, or sewer, or
to hinder or obstruct any persons employed by the village or any of its
officers in making or repairing any public improvement or work ordered to be
done by the village or any of its officers in the performance of their duty;
   (D)   Injure, deface, or destroy, or assist in injuring, defacing, or
destroying, any bridge or its appurtenances or any other public building or
property, sidewalk, crossing, lamppost or awning, or any private property of
any kind;
   (E)   For any private purpose, dig, remove, or carry away any earth from any
street or alley;
   (F)   Place, throw, or leave, or cause to be thrown or left, any boxes,
papers, hay, straw, or any rubbish, litter, dirt, or garbage or any other
substance in any street, avenue, or alley within the village; or
   (G)   Deposit, place, or leave upon any sidewalk, street, alley, park, or
other public place within the village, any broken glass, crockery, nails,
tacks, tin, or wire cuttings or other articles liable to wound or injure any
man, beast, rubber tire, or vehicle.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-24)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12  THROWING, SHOOTING MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely or heedlessly cast or throw
any stone or other missile from or into any public place, or at any person.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-25)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES; DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any two or more persons to assemble for the purpose of disturbing
the peace or of committing any unlawful act and not to disperse when commanded
or requested by any peace officer;
   (B)   When persons are riotously or unlawfully assembled as set forth in
division (A) above, and neglect or refuse to disperse without unnecessary delay
on command of any village officer or officers as mentioned in said division;
any two village officers may require the aid of a sufficient number of persons,
in arms or otherwise, and proceed in such manner as they judge expedient to
suppress such riotous assembly, and arrest and secure the persons composing it;
and when armed force is thus called out, they shall obey the orders for
suppressing such assembly, and arresting and securing the persons composing it,
which they receive from the two village officers who thus called them out; and
every person refusing to serve when thus called out, or refusing to obey the
orders for suppressing such assembly and securing the persons composing it,
which they receive from the two village officers who called them out shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor;
   (C)   To disturb the peace or be guilty of any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct, or offensive carriage; and/or
   (D)   To knowingly suffer or permit any assemblage for the purpose of the
disturbance of the peace or of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace, or any riotous, offensive, tumultuous, or disorderly conduct, in or upon
any premises owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her control.
(1977 Code, § 6-1-26)  (Ord. 4, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14  MINORS IN POSSESSION OF TOBACCO PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years of age to
possess any tobacco products within the village limits; provided, that the
possession by a person under the age of 18 years of age under the direct
supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of the
parent’s or guardian’s home shall not be prohibited.
(Ord. 00-12, passed 5-8-2000)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.07 shall be liable for a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $50 upon
conviction.
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.10 or who fails, neglects, or refuses to comply with the notice provided in
§
130.10 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $500
for each offense and each day any such violation shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense. The penalty specified in this division shall be
in addition to the liability for expense of towing and impoundment provided in
§
130.10(H).
   (D)   The fine to be imposed for violation of §
130.14 shall be $25 for the first offense, $50 for the second offense, and no
less than $75 nor greater than $500 for the third and each subsequent offense.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 00-12, passed 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 131: OBSCENITY
Section
   
131.01   Obscenity prohibited
   
131.02   Elements of the offense
   
131.03   Definition
   
131.04   Interpretation of evidence
   
131.05   Prima facie evidence
   
131.06   Affirmative defenses
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to commit obscenity. For purposes of this chapter
PERSON means an individual, public or private corporation, government,
partnership, or unincorporated association. Any reference to the masculine
shall include the feminine and any reference to the singular shall include the
plural.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of the nature or content
thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would
have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he or she:
   (A)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver, or
provide, any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
   (B)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance, or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
   (C)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
   (D)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition of
his or her body for gain;
   (E)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material with
intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal laws or
regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
   (F)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 131.03  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OBSCENE.  A thing is obscene if, considered as a whole, its predominant
appeal is to prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in
nudity, sex, or excretion, and if it goes substantially beyond customary limits
of candor in description or representation of such matters. A thing is OBSCENE
even though the obscenity is latent, as in the case of undeveloped photographs.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 131.04  INTERPRETATION OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults, except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
   (B)   Where circumstances or production, presentation, sale, dissemination,
distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being commercially
exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with
respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the conclusion that the
matter is utterly without redeeming social importance.
   (C)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section evidence shall be
admissible to show:
      (1)   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed;
      (2)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
on the behavior of such people;
      (3)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits of
the material or absence thereof;
      (4)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
      (5)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising or
other promotion of the material; and
      (6)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 131.05  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   The creation, purchase, procurement, or possession of a mold, engraved
plate, or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for reproducing
multiple copies, or the possession of more than six copies of obscene material
shall be prima facie evidence of an intent to disseminate.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 131.06  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity that the dissemination:
   (A)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; or
   (B)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other special
justification for possession of such material.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-1)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. A person who is convicted shall be punished by a fine
between the amount of $25 and $500 or by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed six months or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(1977 Code, § 6-6-3)  (Ord. 81-9-3, passed 8-10-1981)
CHAPTER 132: GAMBLING
Section
Licensing of Raffles by Non-Profit Organizations
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   License application and fee
   
132.03   Non-profit requirement
   
132.04   Character requirement
   
132.05   Compensation prohibited
   
132.06   Application of regulations
   
132.07   Appeal of application denial
   
132.08   State law requirement
LICENSING OF RAFFLES BY NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS
§ 132.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RAFFLE.  Any form of lottery, as defined in § 28-2(b) of the Criminal Code
of 2012, 720 ILCS 5/28-2(b), in which the player pays or agrees to pay
something of value for a chance, represented by a number or by a combination of
numbers or some other medium, one or more of which chances is designated the
winning chance, or the winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or
by some other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on
the part of persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the
winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publically exhibited
sporting event.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.02  LICENSE APPLICATION AND FEE.
   The then-acting Mayor for the village is authorized to receive and act on
all raffle license applications, collect an application fee which shall
initially be established to be a nonrefundable amount of $25, and to issue
licenses in accordance with this subchapter. The Mayor shall act on any
application within 30 days from the date of application. All granted licenses
shall only remain valid for the period of one year from the date of issuance.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.03  NON-PROFIT REQUIREMENT.
   No license shall be issued unless it be to a bona fide religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veteran’s organization
operating without profit to its members, and which has been in existence for an
uninterrupted period of no less than five years and has had, during that five-
year period of time, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their
objects, or, if a non-profit fund raising organization, been organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or
group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as a result of
illness, disability, accident, or disaster, without regard to the duration of
that organization’s existence.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.04  CHARACTER REQUIREMENT.
   No officers, directors, employees, or persons participating in the
management or operation of the raffle shall have been convicted of a felony
within the ten years immediately preceding the date of the application, nor
have been convicted of a gambling offense.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.05  COMPENSATION PROHIBITED.
   No person who participates in the management or operation of the raffle
shall be compensated.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.06  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The operation of the raffle shall take place entirely within the village
limits. Any operations associated with the raffle outside of the village limits
shall require the applicant to obtain a license from the other municipality(s)
or county(s) in which operations shall take place outside of the village
limits.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.07  APPEAL OF APPLICATION DENIAL.
   In the event that the Mayor shall deny any license application, the
applicant shall have 14 days from date of such refusal to present a written
appeal of the denial to the Village Clerk. The Village Board of Trustees shall
review any such denied application and may approve or deny same.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)
§ 132.08  STATE LAW REQUIREMENT.
   No raffle may be conducted, nor may any license allowing such raffle be
issued, if contrary to the Raffles and Poker Runs Act, 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 9-13-2010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: CURFEW
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Juvenile curfew
   
133.03   Defenses
   
133.04   Enforcement
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
      For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday,  inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR.  Any person under 17 years of age.
   PARENT.  A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN.  To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(d))
(Ord. 16-06, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 133.02  JUVENILE CURFEW.
   (A)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or control
of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a))
(Ord. 16-06, passed 9-12-2016)  Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03  DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.02  that the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, or the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act, 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(b))
(Ord. 16-06, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 133.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inquiry. Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place.
   (B)   Arrest or citation. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this chapter unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in §
133.03 is present.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(c))
(Ord. 16-06, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. A violation of this chapter is a petty offense with a
fine of not less than $10 nor more than $500, except that neither a person who
has been made a ward of the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, 705
ILCS 405/1-1 et seq., nor that person's legal guardian, shall be subject to any
fine.
   (B)   Community service.
      (1)   In addition to or instead of the fine imposed by this section, the
court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of this chapter to perform community service as determined by the
court.
      (2)   The legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, 705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq., may not
be ordered to perform community service.
      (3)   The dates and times established for the performance of community
service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation
of chapter shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is
employed in his or her regular occupation.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e))
(Ord. 16-06, passed 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 134: SOCIAL GATHERINGS
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Host responsibilities
   
134.03   Exception
   
134.04   Liability
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL.  Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and which contains 0.5% or
more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either alone
or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   CONVEYANCE.  Any vehicle, trailer, watercraft, or container operated for the
transportation of persons or property.
   EVENT or GATHERING.  Any group of two or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST.  To overtly aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise,
control, or permit a gathering or event.
   ILLICIT DRUGS.  Any drug, substance, or compound prohibited by law, as
defined in the Illinois Controlled Substance Act, 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq., or
the Cannabis Control Act, 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq., including drugs prescribed by
a physician which are in the possession of or used by someone other than the
person to whom the drug was prescribed.
   PARENT.  Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As a natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, parks, businesses, or parking lots.
   REASONABLE STEPS.  Include controlling access to alcoholic beverages at the
event or gathering; controlling the quantity of alcoholic beverages present at
the event or gathering; verifying the age of persons attending the event or
gathering by inspecting drivers licenses or other government-issued
identification cards to ensure that minors do not consume alcoholic beverages
while at the event or gathering; and supervising the activities of minors at
the event or gathering, calling for police assistance in the event people under
21 are in possession of alcohol at the event or gathering, or advising law
enforcement in advance of departing one’s residence that the owner will be away
and no underage person is authorized to be present and consume alcohol at the
owner’s residence.
   RELIGIOUS CEREMONY.  The possession, consumption, and dispensation of
alcohol or an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of conducting any bona fide
rite or religious ceremony.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES.  Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   RESPONSE COST.  The costs associated with responses by law enforcement,
fire, and other emergency response providers to an event or gathering,
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Salaries and benefits of law enforcement, code enforcement, fire,
or other emergency response personnel for the amount of time spent responding
to, remaining at, or otherwise dealing with an event or gathering, and the
administrative costs attributable to such response(s);
      (2)   The cost of any medical treatment for any law enforcement, code
enforcement, fire, or other emergency response personnel injured responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of an event or gathering; and
      (3)   The cost of repairing any village equipment in responding to,
remaining at, or leaving the scene of an event or gathering.
   UNDERAGE PERSON.  Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 134.02  HOST RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Except as permitted by state law, it is unlawful for any person to
permit, allow, host, or fail to take reasonable steps to prevent an event or
gathering at his or her place of residence or other private property, public
place, any other premises under his or her control, or in any conveyance over
which that person has control or a reasonable opportunity for control, where
illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages have been consumed by an underage person,
if such person either knows or reasonably should know that an underage person
has consumed any illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   A person who permits, allows, or hosts an event or gathering shall be
deemed to have known or should have known that an underage person has consumed
illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages if the person has not taken all reasonable
steps to prevent the consumption of illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages by
underage persons.
   (C)   It is the duty of any person who permits, allows, or hosts an event or
gathering at his or her place of residence or other private property, public
place, any other premises under his or her control, or in any conveyance, where
underage persons will be present, to take all reasonable steps to prevent the
consumption of illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages by any underage person at
the event or gathering.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-13-2011)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03  EXCEPTION.
   (A)   This section shall not apply to conduct involving the use of alcoholic
beverages that occurs at a religious ceremony or exclusively between an
underage person and his or her parent or legal guardian, as permitted by state
law.
   (B)   A person who hosts an event or gathering shall not be in violation of
this chapter if he or she seeks assistance from the Police Department or other
law enforcement agency to remove any person who refuses to abide by the
person’s performance of the duties imposed by this chapter, or terminate the
event or gathering because the person has been unable to prevent underage
persons from consuming illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages despite having
taken all reasonable steps to do so, as long as such request is made before any
other person makes a complaint about the event or gathering.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 134.04  LIABILITY.
   (A)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be liable under this chapter.
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
responsible for any and all response costs incurred to investigate the event or
gathering.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates or assists in the violations of any provision
of this chapter shall be deemed to have committed a petty offense and shall be
fined for each such violation. Each day on which, or during which, a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense. For purposes of this section the
12-month period is defined on a rolling basis looking back 12 months from the
date of the violation. The 12-month period is not defined by a calendar year.
   (B)   (1)   The first violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of no less than $250 and no more than $750.
      (2)   The second violation of this chapter by the same responsible person
within a 12-month period shall be punishable by a fine of no less than $500 and
no more than $750.
      (3)   The third or subsequent violation of this chapter by the same
responsible person within a 12-month period shall be punishable by a fine of no
less than $750.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 6-13-2011)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REQUIREMENTS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Swimming Pools
   
150.01   Compliance required
   
150.02   Private pool
   
150.03   Location
   
150.04   Barriers for swimming pools
   
150.05   Water supply
   
150.06   Inlets
   
150.07   Specifications
   
150.08   Electrical requirements
   
150.09   Non-conformance
Streets; Public Ways
   
150.20   Action by ordinance
   
150.21   Use of private property; petition
   
150.22   General taxation
   
150.23   Streets vacated
   
150.24   Recording plats
   
150.25   Width of streets; curbing
Sidewalk Construction
   
150.40   Supervise construction
   
150.41   Ordinance to construct
   
150.42   Neglect of lot owners
 
   
150.99   Penalty
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.01  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install, or enlarge any
swimming pool in the village except in compliance with all the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-1)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  PRIVATE POOL.
   The term SWIMMING POOL is hereby defined as a receptacle for water, or an
artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more than two feet,
intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human
beings, and including all appurtenant equipment.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 150.03  LOCATION.
   No portion of a swimming pool outside a building shall be located at a
distance less than eight feet from any side or rear property line or building
line. Pumps, filters, and pool water disinfection equipment installations shall
be located at a distance not less than eight feet from any side property line.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-3)  (Ord. 71-2, passed 6-14-1971)
§ 150.04  BARRIERS FOR SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this section shall control the design
of barriers for residential swimming pools. These design controls are intended
to provide protection against potential drownings and near-drownings by
restricting access to swimming pools.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, BARRIER shall be defined
as a fence, wall, building wall, or combination thereof which completely
surrounds a swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming pool.
   (C)   Barriers for outdoor swimming pools. An outdoor swimming pool,
including an in-ground, above-ground, or on-ground pool, shall be provided with
a barrier which shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The top of the barrier shall be at least 72 inches above grade
measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool.
The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier
shall be two inches measured on the side of the barrier which faces away from
the swimming pool. Where the top of the pool structure is above grade, such as
an above-ground pool, the barrier may be at ground level, such as the pool
structure, or mounted on top of the pool structure. Where the barrier is
mounted on top of the pool structure, the maximum vertical clearance between
the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be four
inches;
      (2)   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four-inch
diameter sphere;
      (3)   Solid barriers which do not have openings, such as a masonry or
stone wall, shall not contact indentations or protrusions except for normal
construction tolerances and tooled masonry joints;
      (4)   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members
and the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than 45
inches, the horizontal members shall be located on the swimming pool side of
the fence. Spacing between vertical members shall not exceed one and three-
fourth inches in width. Where there are decorative cutouts within vertical
members, spacing within the cutouts shall not exceed one and three-fourth
inches in width;
      (5)   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members
and the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is 45 inches or
more, spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four inches. Where
there are decorative cutouts within vertical members, spacing within the
cutouts shall not exceed one and three-fourth inches in width;
      (6)   Maximum mesh size for chain link fences shall be a one and one-
fourth inch square unless the fence is provided with slats fastened at the top
or the bottom which reduce the openings to not more than one and three-fourth
inches;
      (7)   Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, such as a
lattice fence, the maximum openings formed by the diagonal members shall not be
more than one and three-fourth inches;
      (8)   Access gates shall comply with the requirements of divisions (C)(1)
through (C)(7) above and shall be equipped to accommodate a locking device.
Pedestrian access gates shall open outward away from the pool and shall be
self-closing and have a self-latching device. Gates other than pedestrian
access gates shall have a self-latching device. Where the release mechanism of
the self-latching device is located less than 54 inches from the bottom of the
gate, the release mechanism and openings shall comply with the following:
         (a)   The release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the
gate at least three inches below the top of the gate; and
         (b)   The gate and barrier shall have no opening greater than one-half
inch within 18 inches of the release mechanism.
      (9)   Where a wall of a dwelling serves as part of the barrier, one of
the following conditions shall be met:
         (a)   The pool shall be equipped with a powered safety cover;
         (b)   All doors with direct access to the pool through that wall shall
be equipped with an alarm which produces an audible warning when the door and
its screen, if present, are opened. The alarm shall sound continuously for a
minimum of 30 seconds immediately after the door is opened and be capable of
being heard throughout the house during normal household activities. The alarm
shall automatically reset under all conditions. The alarm system shall be
equipped with manual means, such as touchpad or switch, to temporarily
deactivate the alarm for a single opening. Such deactivation shall last for not
more than 15 seconds. The deactivation switch(es) shall be located at least 54
inches above the threshold of the door; or
         (c)   All doors with direct access to the pool through the wall shall
be equipped with a self-closing and self-latching device with the release
mechanism located a minimum of 54 inches above the floor. Swinging doors shall
open away from the pool area.
      (10)   Where an above-ground pool structure is used as a barrier or where
the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of access is
a ladder or steps, then:
         (a)   The ladder or steps shall be capable of being secured, locked,
or removed to prevent access; or
         (b)   The ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier which meets
the requirements of divisions (C)(1) through (C)(9) above. When the ladder or
steps are secured, locked, or removed, any opening created shall not allow the
passage of a four-inch sphere.
   (D)   Barrier exceptions. A swimming pool with an operational power safety
cover shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, but only if the pool
is covered at all times when no one is making actual use of the pool.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-4)  (Ord. 75-4, passed 8-11-1975; Ord. 08-03, passed 7-10-
2008)
§ 150.05  WATER SUPPLY.
   No source of water other than that secured from the village waterworks
distribution system shall be used in swimming pools.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-5)
§ 150.06  INLETS.
   (A)   Swimming pool water recirculation system inlets shall be located so as
to produce so far as possible uniform circulation of water throughout the pool
without the existence of dead spots and to carry pool bottom deposits to the
outlets, and shall discharge at a minimum depth of ten inches below the pool
overflow level. A minimum of one recirculation system inlet shall be provided
for every 615 square feet of surface area of the pool.
   (B)   Pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding make-up
water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water supply
line and the pool system. If the make-up water is added directly to the pool,
the outlet shall be at least six inches above the upper rim of the pool. If the
make-up water supply line discharges to a surge or balancing tank, the point of
discharge shall be at least six inches above the rim of the tank. If a hose
connection from a sill cock or other plumbing fixture is to be used for
supplying make-up water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be installed
between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose connection.
The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height not less than seven feet six
inches above the floor, platform, or ground upon which a person would stand
when operating the sill cock or control valve. Maximum size of the fillpipe
shall be two inches.
   (C)   The systems supplying recirculated water and make-up water to the pool
shall be constructed in conformance with the ordinances regulating plumbing.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-6)
§ 150.07  SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In swimming pools 30 feet in width or less, water circulation system
outlets shall be located so as to provide at least one outlet at the deepest
point in the pool. If the pool width is more than 30 feet, multiple outlets
shall be provided and spaced not more than 30 feet apart, nor closer than four
feet to any wall. All pool drain outlets shall be equipped with gratings having
an area of openings not less than four times the cross-sectional area of the
outlet pipe. The gratings shall be of such design so they cannot be readily
removable by bathers and will not injure bathers’ fingers. One outlet shall be
provided for each 800 square feet of surface area.
   (B)   Pools shall be equipped with facilities for completely emptying the
pool and the discharge of the pool water to the sewer shall be at a rate not
exceeding 200 gallons per minute. No direct connection shall be made to the
sewer.
   (C)   Water drained from the pool shall not be discharged to the sewer
system during periods of rain or storms. At no time shall the rate of drain
water discharge exceed a flow of 200 gallons per minute.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-7)
§ 150.08  ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed, and used in
conjunction with private residential swimming pools shall be in conformance
with the ordinances regulating electrical installations.
   (B)   No current-carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, either overhead or underground or within 15 feet of
such pools.
   (C)   All metal fences, enclosures, or railings near or adjacent to swimming
pools, which might become electrically alive as a result of contact with broken
overhead conductors or from any other cause, shall be effectively grounded.
(1977 Code, § 4-1-8)  (Ord. 71-2, passed 6-14-1971)
§ 150.09  NON-CONFORMANCE.
   Any violation of this subchapter shall first result in a verbal or written
warning issued by the Zoning Officer or Police Department. If the violation has
not been corrected within four calendar days after the date of the verbal or
written warning, the Zoning Officer or Chief of Police may, by written
directive, order the owner, tenant, or other person in possession of the
property upon which the swimming pool is located to drain the swimming pool
until the violation is corrected.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
STREETS; PUBLIC WAYS
§ 150.20  ACTION BY ORDINANCE.
   The President and Board of Trustees, by ordinance, may lay out, open,
extend, alter, widen, or vacate any street, alley, or avenue in the village.
Said ordinance shall prescribe whether the expense of the improvement shall be
made by special assessment, or by special taxation of contiguous property or by
general taxation, or by both.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-1)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 150.21  USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY; PETITION.
   (A)   Should the above-mentioned ordinance provide for an improvement which
requires the taking or damaging of private property for public use, the village
shall file a petition in some court of record of the proper county, in the name
of the village, praying that the just compensation to be made for the private
property to be taken or damaged for the improvement or purpose specified in
such ordinance shall be ascertained by a jury according to law.
   (B)   Such petition shall contain a copy of said ordinance, certified to by
the Village Clerk, under the corporate seal, a reasonably accurate description
of the lots, parcels of land, and property which will be taken or damaged and
the names of the owners and occupants thereof, so far as known to the President
and Board of Trustees or officers filing the petition; and where any known
owners or nonresidents of the state, stating the facts of nonresidence. In case
any of the owners are unknown or reside out of this state, an affidavit shall
be filed with the petition showing such fact.
   (C)   After the damages have been ascertained and paid or deposited, and an
order entered by the court as prescribed by law, the village shall have the
right at any time thereafter to take possession of or damage the property, in
respect to which such compensation shall have been paid or deposited.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-2)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 150.22  GENERAL TAXATION.
   When the ordinance, under which the improvement is ordered to be made,
provides that such improvement shall be made by general taxation, the cost of
such improvement shall be added to the general appropriation bill of the
village and shall be levied and collected with, and as a part of the general
taxes of the village. When said ordinance shall provide that such improvement
shall be made by special assessment or by special taxation, or both, of
contiguous property, the cost shall be levied, assessed, and collected in the
mode provided by law for making, assessing, and collecting special assessments.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-3)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 150.23  STREETS VACATED.
   No street, alley, or avenue shall be vacated except by ordinance, and upon a
three-fourths majority of all the Trustees authorized by law to be elected
which vote shall be by yeas and nays, and entered on the records of the Board
of Trustees.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-4)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 150.24  RECORDING PLATS.
   Whenever any street, alley, or avenue shall be laid out, altered, or
widened, it shall be the duty of the President and Board of Trustees to cause a
plat thereof to be made, showing the width, courses, and extent thereof, and
making such reference to known and established corners or monuments that the
location thereof may be ascertained and have the same recorded in the
Recorder’s office of the proper county; and when any street, alley, or avenue
is vacated, the ordinance vacating the same shall be in like manner recorded.
The fees for recording shall be paid by the village.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-5)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
§ 150.25  WIDTH OF STREETS; CURBING.
   For the purpose of building curbing in and on the streets of the village, by
the owner or owners of abutting property, the widths of streets between the
curbings are hereby established as 32 feet, and the curbing shall be placed so
that both sides shall be an equal distance from the center of the street. Any
person or persons contemplating the building of curbing along any street or
streets in the village shall first submit to the President and Board of
Trustees a drawing of such curbing and the specifications therefor showing
depth to be set in ground, together with the height of such curbing above
ground. All curbing shall be of the width of six inches on top and a depth
sufficient to make a substantial curbing.
(1977 Code, § 8-1-6)  (Ord. 11, passed - -)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 150.40  SUPERVISE CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water and Streets, under the
direction of the Committee on Streets, Alleys, and Sidewalks, to supervise the
construction of all sidewalks and street crossings, and to keep in repair all
sidewalks that have been heretofor or may hereafter be built along the line of
any public street in the village and he or she shall procure the necessary
material for such purpose; provided, that when it is not necessary to continue
the use of any sidewalk, the President and Board of Trustees may by ordinance
discontinue the same and order the same removed.
(1977 Code, § 8-2-1)  (Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 150.41  ORDINANCE TO CONSTRUCT.
   (A)   Whenever it may become necessary to construct any new sidewalk, the
President and Board of Trustees shall by ordinance provide for the building of
the same, which ordinance shall define the location of such proposed sidewalk,
prescribe its width, the materials of which it shall be constructed, the manner
of its construction, and what officer or officers of the village shall approve
and accept the same when completed. Said ordinance shall be published as
required by law for other ordinances of the village, and said ordinance shall
provide whether or not the owners of the lots or parcels of land touching the
line of said proposed sidewalk shall build the same in front of their
respective lots or parcels, or whether the whole or any part of the cost of
constructing said sidewalk shall be by special taxation of the lots or parcels
of land touching upon the line of said proposed sidewalk. And said ordinance
shall provide that part of the cost of constructing said sidewalk, if any,
shall be paid by the village.
   (B)   If said sidewalk is to be constructed by the owners of lots or parcels
of land touching upon the line of such sidewalk in front of their respective
lots or parcels in accordance with the specifications of said ordinance within
30 days after the publication of said ordinance, and shall provide that in
default thereof, the materials shall be furnished, and the sidewalk shall be
constructed by the village and the costs, or such part thereof as may be fixed
in said ordinance, shall be collected from the respective owners of such lots
or parcels of land as provided by law.
(1977 Code, § 8-2-2)  (Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 150.42  NEGLECT OF LOT OWNERS.
   If the owner or owners of any such lots or parcels of land neglect or refuse
to build such sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of such ordinance
within 30 days after the publication of said ordinance, then the Village
Commissioner in his or her capacity of Superintendent of Water and Streets,
shall then cause the same to be built, and the cost thereof, or such part of
such cost as said ordinance may provide, shall be collected of the owner or
owners so in default, in the manner provided by law.
(1977 Code, § 8-2-3)  (Ord. 10, passed - -)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
    If within four calendar days after delivery of the written order to drain
the swimming pool, either the violation has not been corrected or the swimming
pool has not been drained, the owner, tenant, or other person in possession of
the property upon which the pool is located shall be subject to a fine between
the amount of $25 and $500 per day. Each day any violation of this chapter
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be imposed.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 7-10-2008)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Base flood elevation
   
151.004   Duties of the Zoning Officer
   
151.005   Development permit
Preventing Increased Flood Heights and Resulting Damages
   
151.020   Standards
   
151.021   Bridge and culvert crossings
   
151.022   Barge fleeting facilities
   
151.023   Aerial utility crossings
   
151.024   Minor boat docks
   
151.025   Minor, non-obstructive activities
   
151.026   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets
   
151.027   Underground pipeline and utility crossings
   
151.028   Bank stabilization projects
   
151.029   Accessory structures and additions
   
151.030   Minor maintenance dredging activities
   
151.031   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening
   
151.032   Temporary construction activities
   
151.033   Developments in flood fringe areas
   
151.034   Exceptions
Protecting Buildings
   
151.045   All buildings
   
151.046   Residential or non-residential buildings
   
151.047   Non-residential buildings
   
151.048   Manufactured homes or travel trailers
   
151.049   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles
   
151.050   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures
Additional Provisions
   
151.065   Subdivision requirements
   
151.066   Public health and other standards
   
151.067   Carrying capacity and notification
   
151.068   Variances
   
151.069   Liability
   
151.070   Abrogation and greater restrictions
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this
village by §§ 1-2-1, 11-30-2, 11-30-8, and 11-31-2 of the Illinois Municipal
Code, 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/11-31-2 in order to
accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available, and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-year flood. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
151.003.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a building having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  A walled and roofed structure, including gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, including manufactured homes, and
prefabricated buildings. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. 
      (1)   Any facility which is critical to the health and welfare of the
population and, if flooded, would create an added dimension to the disaster.
Damage to these CRITICAL FACILITIES can impact the delivery of vital services,
can cause greater damage to other sectors of the community, or can put special
populations at risk.
      (2)   Examples of CRITICAL FACILITIES where flood protection should be
required include: emergency services facilities (such as fire and police
stations), schools, hospitals, retirement homes and senior care facilities,
major roads and bridges, critical utility sites (telephone switching stations
or electrical transformers), and hazardous material storage facilities
(chemicals, petrochemicals, hazardous, or toxic substances).
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface; and
         (g)   Storage of materials, including, the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks and channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filing, grading, or construction of levees.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before the effective date of the floodplain management regulations
adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA.  Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE.  That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP.  A map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area
(SFHA) within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or
may not depict floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE).  The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
      (1)   These two terms are synonymous. Those lands within the jurisdiction
of the Village of Washburn, the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village,
or that may be annexed into the village, that are subject to inundation by the
base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the village are generally identified as such on
panels of the countywide flood insurance rate maps of Woodford and Marshall
Counties, Illinois, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
dated September 17, 2010 and November 4, 2010, respectively. FLOODPLAIN also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
      (2)   The FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Woodford and
Marshall Counties that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village, or that may be annexed into the village, are generally identified as
such on the flood insurance rate maps prepared for Woodford and Marshall
Counties by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 17,
2010 and November 4, 2010, respectively.
   FLOODWAY.  That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodways for each of the floodplains of the Village of
Washburn shall be according to the best data available from federal, state, or
other sources.
   FLOOD-PROOFING.  Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE.  A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FREEBOARD.  An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions, and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by
the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that
has been certified by the Illinois Historic Preservation Agency.
   IDNR/OWR.  Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of §§
151.045 through
151.050.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more lots for rent or sale.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
or after the effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements of such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed or buildings to be constructed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed on or after the effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community.
   NFIP.  National Flood Insurance Program.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE or TRAVEL TRAILER.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size; and
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS.  Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA.  See FLOODPLAIN.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the building permit was issued. This, provided the actual START OF
CONSTRUCTION, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or
other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START
means either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation. For a substantial improvement, actual
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  See BUILDING.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cumulative percentage of damage subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination. The term includes “repetitive
loss buildings”.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure taking place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter in which the
cumulative percentage of improvements:
         (a)   Equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   Increases the floor area by more than 20%.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. This term includes structures which have incurred repetitive
loss or substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work done.
      (3)   The term does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the required federal, state, and/or local permits
and elevation certification is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as
the documentation is provided.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.003  BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of Woodford and Marshall
Counties shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the
countywide flood insurance studies of Woodford County and Marshall Counties
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 17,
2010 and November 4, 2010, respectively.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as a “A Zone” on the countywide flood insurance rate maps of
Woodford County and Marshall County shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state, or other sources. Should no other data exist, an
engineering study must be financed by the applicant to determine base flood
elevations.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Woodford County and Marshall County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village, or that may be annexed into the
village, shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the Flood
Insurance Studies of Woodford County and Marshall County prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 17, 2010 and November
4, 2010, respectively.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.004  DUTIES OF THE ZONING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Zoning Officer for the village shall be responsible for the
general administration of this chapter and ensure that all development
activities within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the village meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Officer shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
151.005;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §§
151.020 through
151.034;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §§
151.045 through
151.050 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or flood-proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
151.065;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health standards of §
151.066;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
151.068 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all penalty
actions outlined in §
151.999 as a necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state, and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.005  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Officer. The Zoning Officer shall not issue
a development permit if the proposed development does not meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §§
151.045 through
151.050, and cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed
engineer or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this
requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Officer shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to be higher
than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled after the
date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any
development located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and
hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current flood insurance rate map,
is subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Zoning Officer shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site’s first flood insurance rate map
identification.
   (E)   The Zoning Officer shall be responsible for obtaining from the
applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or
permit-not-required letters that may be required for this type of activity. The
Zoning Officer shall not issue a permit unless all other federal, state, and
local permits have been obtained.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES
§ 151.020  STANDARDS.
   (A)   Within any floodway identified on the countywide flood insurance rate
map, and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated,
the following standards shall apply.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
151.034, no development shall be allowed which, acting in combination with
existing and anticipated development will cause any increase in flood heights
or velocities or threat to public health and safety. The following specific
development activities shall be considered as meeting this requirement.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.021  BRIDGE AND CULVERT CROSSINGS.
   Bridge and culvert crossings of streams in rural areas meeting the following
conditions of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, Office of Water
Resources Statewide Permit Number 2:
   (A)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface profile
elevation in excess of one foot;
   (B)   The crossing will not result in an increase in water surface profile
elevation in excess of six inches at a point 1,000 feet upstream of the
proposed structure;
   (C)   There are no buildings in the area impacted by the increases in water
surface profile;
   (D)   The proposed bridge or culvert crossing will not involve
straightening, enlarging, or relocating the existing channel;
   (E)   The design must be certified by a licensed professional engineer in
the State of Illinois and the designs must meet the conditions of an IDNR/OWR
permit; and
   (F)   The design must be certified by a second licensed professional
engineer.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.022  BARGE FLEETING FACILITIES.
   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 3. The permit is only applicable when deadmen, pier
cells, or other similar anchorage devices have been permitted by the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.023  AERIAL UTILITY CROSSINGS.
   Aerial utility crossings meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit Number 4:
   (A)   The utility line must be constructed above the existing 100-year flood
elevation or attached to an existing bridge;
   (B)   A utility line attached to an existing bridge shall be constructed
above the low cord elevation of the bridge;
   (C)   No supporting towers or poles shall be located in a river, lake, or
stream;
   (D)   Supporting towers, including foundation and poles, shall be designed
and located so as to not cause an obstruction of flood flows by trapping
debris;
   (E)   All disturbed areas shall be returned to pre-construction grades and
re-vegetated; and
   (F)   All Illinois Commerce Commission, National Electrical Safety Code, and
federal requirements must be met.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.024  MINOR BOAT DOCKS.
   Minor boat docks meeting the following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit Number 5:
   (A)   The boat dock must not extend more than 50 feet into a waterway and no
more than one-quarter of the width of the waterway and shall not extend beyond
the navigational limited established by the IDNR and Corps of Engineers;
   (B)   The width of the boat dock shall not be more than ten feet;
   (C)   For L-Shaped or T-shaped docks, the length of that portion parallel to
the shoreline must not exceed 50% of the landowner’s shoreline frontage nor 50
feet;
   (D)   Docks must be aligned so as not to cross the projection of property
lines into the waterway or come within ten feet of the projected property line;
   (E)   Dock posts must be marked by reflective devices;
   (F)   The boat dock must be securely anchored to prevent detachment during
times of high wind or water;
   (G)   Metal drums or containers may not be used as buoyancy units unless
they are filled with floatation foam. Containers which previously stored
pesticides, herbicides, or any other toxic chemicals are not permissible;
   (H)   This permit does not authorize any other related construction activity
such as shore protection or fill;
   (I)   Non-floating boat docks must be constructed in a manner which will
minimize obstruction to flow; and
   (J)   At any future date, the permittee must agree to make necessary
modifications to the dock as determined by the IDNR or Corp of Engineers
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.025  MINOR, NON-OBSTRUCTIVE ACTIVITIES.
   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 6, the following activities (not involving fill or
positive change in grade) are covered by this permit:
   (A)   The construction of underground utility lines, wells, or septic tanks
not crossing a lake or stream;
   (B)   The construction of light poles, sign posts, and similar structures;
   (C)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields (excluding
fences), patios, and similar structures;
   (D)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures such
as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports;
   (E)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding 70 square
feet in size, nor ten square feet in any dimension. Only one such building on a
property is authorized by this statewide permit; and
   (F)   The raising of existing buildings, provided no changes are made to the
outside dimensions of the building and the placement of fill is not involved.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.026  OUTFALL STRUCTURES AND DRAINAGE DITCH OUTLETS.
   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the following
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 7:
   (A)   Any outfall structure, including any headwall or end-section, shall
not extend riverward or lakeland of the existing adjacent natural bank slope or
adjacent bank protection;
   (B)   The velocity of the discharge shall not exceed the scour velocity of
the channel soil, unless channel erosion would be prevented by the use of
riprap or other design measures;
   (C)   Outlets from drainage ditches shall not be opened to a stream until
the ditch is vegetated or otherwise stabilized to minimize stream
sedimentation; and
   (D)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway
areas, including the stream banks, shall be restored to their original contours
and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.027  UNDERGROUND PIPELINE AND UTILITY CROSSINGS.
   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 8:
   (A)   In all cases, the crossing shall be placed beneath the bed of the
river, lake, or stream and, unless the crossing is encased in concrete or
entrenched in bedrock, a minimum of three feet of cover shall be provided. The
river, lake, or stream bed shall be returned to its original condition;
   (B)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway
areas, including stream banks, shall be restored to their original contours and
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
   (C)   Any utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution, as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5), shall
be provided with shut-off valves on each side of the body of water to be
crossed; and
   (D)   If blasting is to be utilized in the construction of the crossing, the
permittee shall notify the IDNR/OWR at least ten days prior to the blasting
date to allow monitoring of any related fish kills.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.028  BANK STABILIZATION PROJECTS.
   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit Number 9:
   (A)   Only the following materials may be utilized in urban areas: stone and
concrete riprap, steel sheet piling, cellular blocks, fabric-formed concrete,
gabion baskets, rock and wire mattresses, sand/cement filled bags, geotechnical
fabric materials, natural vegetation and treated timber. Urban areas are
defined as: areas of the state where residential, commercial, or industrial
development currently exists or, based on land use plans or controls, is
expected to occur within ten years. (The Department should be consulted if
there is a question of whether or not an area is considered urban);
   (B)   In addition to the materials listed in division (A) above, other
materials (e.g., tire revetments) may be utilized in rural areas provided all
other conditions of this permit are met;
   (C)   The following materials shall not be used in any case: auto bodies,
garbage or debris, scrap lumber, metal refuse, roofing materials, asphalt or
other bituminous materials, or any material which would cause water pollution
as defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.);
   (D)   The affected length of shoreline, stream bank, or channel to be
protected shall not exceed, either singularly or cumulatively, 1,000 feet;
   (E)   All material utilized shall be properly sized or anchored to resist
anticipated forces of current and wave action;
   (F)   Materials shall be placed in a way which would not cause erosion or
the accumulation of debris on properties adjacent to or opposite the project;
   (G)   Materials shall not be placed higher than the existing top of the
bank;
   (H)   (1)   Materials shall be placed so that the modified bank full-width
and cross-sectional area of the channel will conform to or be no more
restrictive than that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the
site.
      (2)   For projects involving continuous placement of riprap along the
bank, toe of the bank or other similar applications, in no case shall the
cross-sectional area of the natural channel be reduced by more than 10% nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of the stream
bank or shoreline. The bank may be graded to obtain a flatter slope and to
lessen the quantity of material required.
   (I)   If broken concrete is used, all protruding materials such as
reinforcing rods shall be cut flush with the surface of the concrete and
removed from the construction area;
   (J)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction;
   (K)   In the case of seawalls and gabion structures on lakes, the structure
shall be constructed at or landward of the water line as determined by the
normal pool elevation, unless:
      (1)   It is constructed in alignment with an existing seawall(s) or
gabion structure(s); and
      (2)   The volume of material placed, including the structure, would not
exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot.
   (L)   Excess material excavated during the construction of the bank or
shoreline protection shall be placed in accordance with local, state, and
federal laws and rules, and shall not be placed in a floodway.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.029  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND ADDITIONS.
   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential buildings meeting
the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 10:
   (A)   The accessory structure or building addition must comply with the
requirements of the local floodplain ordinance;
   (B)   The principal structure to which the project is being added must have
been in existence on the effective date of this permit (July 25, 1988);
   (C)   The accessory structure or addition must not exceed 500 square feet in
size and must not deflect floodwaters onto another property;
   (D)   Must not involve the placement of any fill material;
   (E)   No construction shall be undertaken in or within 50 feet of the bank
of the stream channel;
   (F)   The accessory structure or addition must be properly anchored to
prevent its movement during flood conditions;
   (G)   Only one accessory structure or addition to an existing structure
shall be authorized by this permit; plans for any subsequent addition must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for review; and
   (H)   Disturbances of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway areas
shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.030  MINOR MAINTENANCE DREDGING ACTIVITIES.
   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the following conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 11:
   (A)   The affected length of the stream shall not either singularly or
cumulatively exceed 1,000 feet;
   (B)   The project shall not include the construction of any new channel; all
work must be confined to the existing channel or to reestablishing flows in the
natural stream channel;
   (C)   The cross-sectional area of the dredged channel shall conform to that
of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site;
   (D)   Dredged or spoil material shall not be disposed of in a wetland and
shall be either:
      (1)   Removed from the floodway;
      (2)   Used to stabilize an existing bank; provided no materials would be
placed higher than the existing top of bank, and provided the cross-sectional
area of the natural channel would not be reduced by more than 10%, nor the
volume of material placed exceed two cubic yards per lineal foot of streambank;
      (3)   Used to fill an existing washed out or scoured floodplain area such
that the average natural floodplain elevation is not increased;
      (4)   Used to stabilize and existing levee; provided the height of the
levee would not be increased nor its alignment changed;
      (5)   Placed in a disposal site previously approved by the Department in
accordance with the conditions of the approval, or
      (6)   Used for beach nourishment; provided the material meets all
applicable water quality standards.
   (E)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed floodway
areas, including the stream banks, shall be seeded or otherwise stabilized upon
completion of construction.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.031  BRIDGE AND CULVERT REPLACEMENT STRUCTURES AND BRIDGE WIDENING.
   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widening meeting the
following conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit Number 12:
   (A)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine and document that the
existing structure has not been the cause of demonstrable flood damage. Such
documentation shall include, at a minimum, confirmation that:
      (1)   No buildings or structures have been impacted by the backwater
induced by the existing structure; and
      (2)   There is no record of complaints of flood damages associated with
the existing structure.
   (B)   A licensed professional engineer shall determine that the new
structure will provide the same or greater effective waterway opening as the
existing structure. For bridge-widening projects the existing piers and the
proposed pier extensions must be in line with the direction of the approaching
flow upstream of the bridge;
   (C)   The project shall not include any appreciable raising of the approach
roads. (This condition does not apply if all points on the approaches exist at
an elevation equal to or higher than the 100-year frequency flood headwater
elevation as determined by a FEMA flood insurance study completed or approved
by IDNR/OWR);
   (D)   The project shall not involve the straightening, enlargement, or
relocation of the existing channel of the river or stream except as permitted
by the Department’s Statewide Permit Number 9 (Minor Shoreline, channel and
Streambank Protection Activities) or Statewide Permit Number 11 (Minor
Maintenance Dredging Activities); and
   (E)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by this
permit necessary to document compliance with the above conditions.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.032  TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   Temporary construction activities meeting the following conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit Number 13:
   (A)   No temporary construction activity shall be commenced until the
individual permittee determines that the permanent structure (if any) for which
the work is being performed has received all required federal, state, and local
authorizations;
   (B)   The term TEMPORARY shall mean not more than one construction season.
All temporary construction materials must be removed from the stream and
floodway within one year of their placement and the area returned to the
conditions existing prior to the beginning of construction. Any desired
subsequent or repetitive material placement shall not occur without the review
and approval of the IDNR/OWR;
   (C)   The temporary project shall be constructed such that it will not cause
erosion or damage due to increases in water surface profiles to adjacent
properties. For locations where there are structures in the upstream
floodplain, the temporary project shall be constructed such that all water
surface profile increases, due to the temporary project, are contained within
the channel banks;
   (D)   This permit does not authorize the placement or construction of any
solid embankment or wall such as a dam, roadway, levee, or dike across any
channel or floodway;
   (E)   No temporary structure shall be placed within any river or stream
channel until a licensed professional engineer determines and documents that
the temporary structure will meet the requirements of Special Condition Number
3 of this statewide permit. Such documentation shall include, at a minimum,
confirmation that no buildings or structures will be impacted by the backwater
induced by the temporary structure;
   (F)   The permittee shall maintain records of projects authorized by this
permit necessary to document compliance with the above condition;
   (G)   Disturbance of vegetation shall be kept to a minimum during
construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed areas shall be
seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of the removal of the temporary
construction; and
   (H)   Materials used for the project shall not cause water pollution as
defined by the Environmental Protection Act (415 ILCS 5).
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.033  DEVELOPMENTS IN FLOOD FRINGE AREAS.
   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely within a flood
fringe area shall be exempt from state floodway permit requirements.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.034  EXCEPTIONS.
   Other development activities not listed in §§
151.020 through
151.033 may be permitted only if:
   (A)   Permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); or
   (B)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA, when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
PROTECTING BUILDINGS
§ 151.045  ALL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §§
151.020 through
151.034, all buildings located in the floodplain shall be protected from flood
damage below the flood protection elevation.
   (B)   This building protection requirement applies to the following
situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building or alteration or
addition to an existing building valued at more than $1,000 or having an area
greater than 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements or structural alterations made to an
existing building that increase the floor area by more than 20% or equal or
exceed the market value by 50%. Alteration shall be figured cumulatively
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If substantially improved, the
existing structure and the addition must meet the flood protection standards of
this subchapter;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively subsequent to the adoption of this chapter. If
substantially damaged, the entire structure must meet the flood protection
standards of this subchapter;
      (4)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. (The building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (5)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (6)   Repetitive loss to an existing building, as defined in §
151.002.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.046  RESIDENTIAL OR NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods.
   (B)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
      (2)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
      (4)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporated
debris or refuse material, and
      (5)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
   (C)   The building may be elevated on solid walls in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls, crawlspace, or other foundation that is permanently open to floodwaters;
      (2)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
      (3)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a licensed
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with a minimum of two openings. The
openings shall provide a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the base flood
elevation; and
      (4)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored, designed,
and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such as
current, waves, ice, and floating debris:
         (a)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (b)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation provided they are waterproofed;
         (c)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space; and/or
         (d)   In lieu of the above criteria, the design methods to comply with
these requirements may be certified by a licensed professional engineer or
architect.
   (D)   The building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation; provided that the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundations wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event;
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.047  NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood-proofed (in lieu of
elevation); provided a licensed professional engineer or architect certifies
that:
   (A)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
   (B)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate of
rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynarnic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and the
impact from debris and ice;
   (C)   Flood-proofing measures will be incorporated into the building design
and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity; and
   (D)   Levees, berms, floodwalls, and similar works are not considered flood-
proofing for the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.048  MANUFACTURED HOMES OR TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   Manufactured homes or travel trailers to be permanently installed on site
shall be:
   (A)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation in accordance with
§
151.046, and
   (B)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., and 77 Ill. Adm. Code §§ 870.190 et
seq.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.049  TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180 days per
year shall meet the elevation requirements of §
151.048 unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-duty
truck;
   (B)   The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times;
   (C)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as decks
and porches;
   (D)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel,
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling;
   (E)   The vehicle’s largest horizontal projections must be no larger than
400 square feet;
   (F)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated;
   (G)   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be safe
for movement of the floodplain;
   (H)   Propane tanks as well as electrical and sewage connections must be
quick-disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation;
   (I)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle or
park model, and must either:
      (1)   Entirely be supported by jacks; or
      (2)   Have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground and be supported by block in a manner that will allow the block to be
easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.050  GARAGES, SHEDS, OR OTHER MINOR ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Garages, sheds, or other minor accessory structures constructed ancillary to
an existing residential use may be permitted; provided the following conditions
are met:
   (A)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
   (B)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles and
tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
   (C)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway or have the
appropriate state and/or federal permits;
   (D)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory to
an existing principal structure on the same lot;
   (E)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage;
   (F)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
   (G)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall not more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area;
   (H)   The garage or shed must be less than $10,000 in market value or
replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less than 500 square feet;
   (I)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and overturning;
   (J)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
   (K)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner advised
of the flood insurance implications.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.065  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall take into account hazards, to the
extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land management
use and development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments, and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protections
standards of §§
151.020 through
151.034 and
151.045 through
151.050. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain; where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable, and
      (3)   A signed statement by a licensed professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with § 2 of the Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
   (C)   Streets, blocks lots, parks, and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.066  PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
151.020 through
151.034 and
151.045 through
151.050, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood-proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §§
151.045 through
151.050.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above-ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   Construction of new or substantially improved critical facilities
shall be located outside the limits of the floodplain. Construction of new
critical facilities shall be permissible within the floodplain if no feasible
alternative site is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA
shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated or structurally dry
flood-proofed to the 500-year flood frequency elevation or three feet above the
level of the 100-year flood frequency elevation, whichever is greater. Flood-
proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic substances
will not be displaced by or released into floodwaters. Access routes elevated
to or above the level of the base flood elevation shall be provided to all
critical facilities.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.067  CARRYING CAPACITY AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
   (B)   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in writing
30 days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of
the watercourse.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.068  VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Zoning
Board of Appeals for a variance. The Village Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees may attach such
conditions to granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Village Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protections
standards of §§
151.045 through
151.050 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risk to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §§
151.045 through
151.050 which are requested in connection with reconstruction, repair, or
alteration of a historic site or historic structure, as defined in “historic
structures”, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of §§
151.020 through
151.034 and
151.045 through
151.050, subject to the conditions that:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      (2)   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.069  LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development, either inside or outside of the floodplain, will be
free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the
part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.070  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the Village
Board of Trustees to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program including March 8, 1999; however, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program,
nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements,
covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Village Attorney
may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists.
The Village Attorney shall notify the owner in writing of such violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten-days’ notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The village shall make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined not less than $50 or more than $750 for each offense;
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
      (4)   The village shall record a notice of violation on the title of the
property.
   (C)   The Village Attorney shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   The Village Attorney is authorized to issue an order requiring the
suspension of the subject development The stop-work order shall be in writing,
indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary,
to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop-work order. The stop-work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
   (E)   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the Zoning Board of Appeals. Written notice of such
hearing shall be served on the permittee and shall state:
      (l)   The grounds for the complaint, reasons for suspension or
revocation; and
      (2)   The time and place of the hearing.
   (F)   At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his or her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended
or revoked.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-12-2010)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Scope
   
152.003   Rules of construction
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Establishment of districts
   
152.006   Official zoning maps
   
152.007   Rules for boundaries
   
152.008   Annexed territory
   
152.009   Amendments
Regulations and Standards
   
152.020   Uniformity of application
   
152.021   Conformity with district regulations and standards
   
152.022   Structures
   
152.023   Accessory uses and structures
   
152.024   Access
   
152.025   Application of standards
   
152.026   Compliance with requirements; limited applicability
   
152.027   Minimum dimensions
   
152.028   Permitted excess
   
152.029   Nonapplicability of standards
   
152.030   Required open space
   
152.031   Depth
   
152.032   Regulations and standards applicable to structures
   
152.033   Trailer coaches
Districts
   
152.045   R - Residential District
   
152.046   C - Commercial District
   
152.047   I - Industrial District
   
152.048   A - Agricultural District
   
152.049   Special uses
   
152.050   Nonconformities
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.065   Zoning officer
   
152.066   Zoning permit
   
152.067   Zoning compliance certificate
   
152.068   Fees
   
152.069   Board of Appeals
   
152.070   Appeals to courts
   
152.071   Amendments
Subdivisions
   
152.085   Regulations
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as The Zoning Chapter of the
Village of Washburn, Illinois and Contiguous Area.
(1977 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 152.002  SCOPE.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances, or
resolutions, except those specifically repealed by this chapter or amendments
hereto, or with private restrictions placed upon property by covenant, deed, or
other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to
which the village is a party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction
upon land, buildings, or structures than is imposed or required by such
existing provisions of law, ordinance, resolution, contract, or deed, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(1977 Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 152.003  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules shall apply in the construction and interpretation of
this chapter and of the terms used herein:
   (A)   The present tense includes the future tense;
   (B)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter;
   (C)   The singular number includes the plural, and vice versa;
   (D)   The word SHALL is always mandatory; the word MAY is always permissive;
   (E)   The word PERSON includes a partnership, association, firm, trust,
club, company, or corporation as well as the individual;
   (F)   The word USED, OCCUPIED, or LOCATED, as applied to any land, building,
use, structure, or premises shall be construed to include the words “intended,
arranged, or designed to be used, occupied, or located”; and
   (G)   The word LOT shall include the words “plot” and “parcel”.
(1977 Code, § 5-1-3)
§ 152.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY.  As applied to a building, structure, or use, one which is on the
same lot with, incidental and subordinate to, the main or principal structure
or use and which is used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal structure, or the main or principal use.
   ALTER; ALTERATION.  Any change in the bearing walls, columns, beams,
girders, or supporting members of a structure: any change or rearrangement in
the floor area of a building, any enlargement of a structure whether by
extending horizontally or by increasing in height, and/or any movement of a
structure from one location or position to another.
   BLOCK FRONT.  Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets, or between the nearest
intersecting or intercepting street and railroad right-of-way, waterway,
unsubdivided area, or other definite boundary.
   DWELLING.  A building designed for residential living purposes and
containing one or more dwelling units and/or lodging units.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One or more rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling
which are used exclusively as living quarters for one and not more than two
roomers or boarders, and which contain a stove, sink, and other kitchen
facilities.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   An individual;
      (2)   Two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption; or
      (3)   Maximum of five persons not so related; together with his, her, or
their domestic servants and gratuitous guests maintaining common household in a
dwelling unit or lodging unit.
   HEIGHT.  The vertical measurement from the average level of the surface of
the ground immediately surrounding a structure to a point midway between the
ridge and eave lines of the roof of the structure, or if unroofed, to the
highest point of such structure.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  A gainful occupation or profession conducted entirely
within a dwelling or in a structure accessory thereto, or conducted in
connection with a dwelling, and carried on by the residents therein; provided
such occupation or profession is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for residential living purposes.
   JUNK YARD.  A lot, land, building or structure, or part thereof used
primarily for the collecting, storage, and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap
metal, or discarded material or for the collecting, dismantling, storage, and
salvaging of machinery or vehicles not in running condition and for the sale of
parts therefrom.
   LOT DEPTH.  The average distance from the front to the rear lot lines
measured in the general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured
along a straight line between them at points in the side lot lines, which are
distant from the front lot line the required front yard depth.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot located:
      (1)   At the junction of and abutting two or more intersecting streets;
      (2)   At the junction of and abutting a street and the nearest shoreline
or high water line of a storm or floodwater runoff channel or basin;
      (3)   At the junction of and abutting two or more storm or floodwater
runoff channels or basins; or
      (4)   At and abutting the point of abrupt change of a single street where
the interior angle is less than 135° and the radius of the street is less than
100 feet.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, ZONING.  A single property, parcel, unit, tract, plot, or otherwise
designated portion of land, having metes and bounds, which is designated to be
used as a unit under single ownership or control, and which may be occupied by
one or more structures and the accessory structures, or uses customarily
incidental to it, including such open spaces as are arranged and designed to be
used in connection with such structure. A ZONING LOT may or may not coincide
with a lot of record.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the village, or if there be
none, they shall mean the Tri-County Regional Planning Commission of Peoria,
Tazewell, and Woodford Counties.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A constructed conduit for the collection and carrying of
liquid and solid sewage wastes, other than storm waters, to a sewage treatment
plant.
   SIGN.  Any structure or device for visual communication that is used for the
purpose of bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not
including any flag, badge, or insignia of any government or governmental
agency, or any civic, charitable, religious, patriotic, fraternal, or similar
organization, or any sign indicating address. Each display surface of a sign
shall be considered a SIGN.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
surface of the ground or affixed to something having a fixed location on the
surface of the ground. Among other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, walls,
swimming pools, fences, billboards, and signs.
   STRUCTURE, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL.  The structure in or on which is conducted the
main or principal use of the lot on which it is located.
   SUBDIVISION.  Any division, development, or resubdivision of any part, lot,
area, or tract of land by the owner or agent, either by lots or by metes and
bounds, into lots two or more in number, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of conveyance, transfer, improvement, or sale, with the appurtenant
streets, alleys, and easements, dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public
use or for the use of the purchasers or owners within the tract subdivided. The
division of land for agricultural purposes not involving any new street, alley,
or other means of access shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION for the purpose of
the regulations and standards of this chapter.
   TRAILER COACH.  Any portable or mobile vehicle or mobile home used for
residential living purposes by a family. For the purpose of this chapter, such
vehicle shall be classified as a TRAILER COACH whether or not its wheels,
rollers, skids, or other rolling equipment have been removed, or whether or not
any addition thereto has been built on the ground.
   USE.  The specific purpose for which land, a structure, or premises is
designed, arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained. The term “permitted use” or its equivalent shall not be deemed to
include any nonconforming use.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Washburn, County of Woodford, Illinois.
   VILLAGE BOARD.  The governing body of the village.
   YARD.  An open space, other than a court, on the same lot with a structure,
lying between the structure and the nearest lot line, and is unoccupied and
unobstructed from the surface of the ground upward except as may be
specifically provided by the regulations and standards herein.
   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending the full width of a lot and situated between
the front lot line and the nearest line of a structure located on said lot.
Where a lot is located such that its rear and front lot lines each abut a
street right-of-way line, both such yards shall be classified as FRONT YARDS.
Every yard of a corner lot facing a street right-of-way line shall be
classified as a FRONT YARD.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending the full width of a lot and situated between
the rear lot line and the nearest line of a structure located on said lot.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard situated between the side lot line and the nearest line
of a structure located on said lot and extending from the rear line of the
required front yard to the front line of the required rear yard.
   ZONING BOARD.  The Zoning Board of Appeals of the village.
   ZONING OFFICER.  The officer designated by the Village Board to enforce this
chapter.
(1977 Code, § 5-1-4)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.005  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, and general
welfare, the village and that portion of the contiguous unincorporated area
within one and one-half miles of the village limits, which portion is not zoned
by any county authority, is hereby divided into the following types of
districts:
   (A)   A - Agricultural District;
   (B)   C - Commercial District;
   (C)   I - Industrial District; and
   (D)   R - Residential District.
(1977 Code, § 5-2-1)
§ 152.006  OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
as shown on the zoning maps herein referred to and identified by the titles,
“Village of Washburn, Illinois, Official Zoning Map, Sheet 1 of 2 Sheets” and
“One-half Mile Contiguous Area, Washburn, Illinois, Official Zoning Map, Sheet
2 of 2 Sheets”. All explanatory matter herein is hereby adopted and made a part
of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 152.007  RULES FOR BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts shown on the
official zoning maps, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Streets and alleys. Boundaries indicated as approximately following
the centerline of streets or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (B)   Lot lines. Boundaries indicated as approximately following recorded
lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Village limits. Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
or village limits shall be construed as following such city or village limits.
   (D)   Railroad lines. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Parallels or extensions of above. Boundaries indicated as parallel to
or extensions of features indicated in divisions (A) through (D) above shall be
so construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (F)   Other. Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are
at variance with those shown on the official zoning map or in other
circumstances not covered by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Zoning Board
shall interpret the district boundaries.
(1977 Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 152.008  ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be
considered as being classified in accordance with the following schedule until
otherwise changed by ordinance.
 
Classifications in County                 Classifications in village
Agriculture District                      A - Agricultural District
Commercial District                       C - Commercial District
Conservation “A” or “B” District  A - Agricultural District
Industrial District                       I - Industrial District
No Classification                         R - Residential District
Residential “AS”, “AR”, or “CSR - Residential District
 
(1977 Code, § 5-2-4)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.009  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The regulations and standards, restrictions, and district boundaries
set forth in this chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented,
changed, or repealed.
   (B)   No such action may be taken unless and until:
      (1)   A written application is submitted to the Zoning Board. Such
application may be initiated by the Village Board, the Plan Commission, or the
owners of more than 50% of the area involved;
      (2)   Each such application, except that initiated by the Village Board
or by the Plan Commission, shall be accompanied by a fee as may be determined
by the Village Board to be paid by the applicant;
      (3)   At least 15 days’ but not more than 30 days’ notice of the time and
place of the hearing of such action shall be published in an official paper or
a paper of general circulation in the village. The notice of such hearing shall
contain the information relating to such action. The applicant shall pay the
cost of such publication;
      (4)   A public hearing shall be held, any person may appear in person, or
by agent or by attorney;
      (5)   The Zoning Board may, by majority vote, postpone or adjourn from
time to time any public hearing. In the event of such postponement or
adjournment, further publication of such action need not be made;
      (6)   Within 30 days after the close of the public hearing, the Zoning
Board shall make a report to the Village Board; and
      (7)   Action of the Village Board:
         (a)   In the event that the report of the Zoning Board is adverse to
such action referred to it, such action shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds of all the members of the Village Board.
         (b)   In case of a written protest against any such action:
            1.   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage,
the zoning classification of which is proposed to be altered;
            2.   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley from the frontage, the zoning
classification of which is proposed to be altered; or
            3.   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
directly opposite from the frontage, the zoning classification of which is
proposed to be altered; and filed with the Village Clerk, such action shall not
be passed except by the favorable vote of, two-thirds of all the members of the
Village Board.
(1977 Code, § 5-11-1)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 152.020  UNIFORMITY OF APPLICATION.
   The regulations and standards set by this chapter within each district shall
be minimum regulations and standards and shall apply uniformly to each class,
kind, or type of structure, use, or land, except as hereinafter provided.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 152.021  CONFORMITY WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no structure or
part thereof shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered, remodeled,
extended, or moved unless in conformity with all the regulations and standards
herein specified for the district in which it shall be located.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-2)
§ 152.022  STRUCTURES.
   No structure shall hereafter be constructed, erected, altered, remodeled,
extended, or moved:
   (A)   To exceed the height;
   (B)   To occupy or house a greater number of families;
   (C)   To occupy a greater percentage of the lot area;
   (D)   To exceed the floor area ratio;
   (E)   To have smaller or less habitable floor area per dwelling unit or
lodging unit; or
   (F)   To exceed the maximum floor area than hereinafter required or in any
manner contrary to the regulations and standards of the district in which it is
located.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-3)
§ 152.023  ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   No accessory use shall be established prior to the establishment of the main
or principal use, and no accessory structure shall be constructed, erected,
altered, remodeled, extended, or moved prior to the establishment or
construction of the main or principal structure except those accessory uses and
structures of a temporary nature required for the establishment of the main or
principal use, or for the construction of the main or principal structure.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-4)
§ 152.024  ACCESS.
   No structure shall be constructed or erected on a lot or tract of land or
moved to a lot or tract of land which does not abut a public street or
permanent easement of access to a public street. Such easement shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet, unless an easement of less width was on record prior
to the effective date hereof.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-5)
§ 152.025  APPLICATION OF STANDARDS.
   The performance standards, regulations and standards, rules, requirements,
provisions, and restrictions set by this chapter shall apply to all structures,
uses, lots, and tracts of land created or established after the effective date
hereof and shall not be deemed to require any change in the structures, uses,
lots, and/or tracts of land lawfully existing on the effective date hereof,
except as expressly specified hereinafter.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-7)
§ 152.026  COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS; LIMITED APPLICABILITY.
   No part of a yard, buffer strip or other open space, off-street parking
space or loading berth, or lot area required about or in connection with any
structure or use for the purpose of complying with the regulations and
standards of this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, buffer strip, or
other open space, off-street parking space or loading berth, or lot area
similarly required for any other structure or use, except as provided for
herein.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-8)
§ 152.027  MINIMUM DIMENSIONS.
   No yard, buffer strip or other open space, off-street parking space or
loading berth, or lot existing on the effective date hereof shall be reduced in
dimension or area below the requirements set forth hereinafter. Yards, buffer
strips or other open spaces, off-street parking spaces or loading berths, or
lots created or established after the effective date hereof shall meet at least
the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-9)
§ 152.028  PERMITTED EXCESS.
   The height of any main or principal structure or accessory building may
exceed the maximum permitted height by one foot for each additional foot by
which the width of each yard exceeds the minimum yard dimension for the
district in which such structure is located.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-10)
§ 152.029  NONAPPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS.
   Height regulations and standards shall not apply to spires, belfries,
penthouses, or domes not used for human occupancy nor to chimneys, ventilators,
skylights, water tanks, bulkheads, utility poles and towers, silos, grain
elevators, and other necessary mechanical appurtenances; provided their
location shall conform where applicable to the regulations and standards of the
Federal Communication Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, and
other public authorities having jurisdiction.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-11)
§ 152.030  REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
   Lots hereafter platted or created shall have adequate lot area, width, and
lot depth to provide for off-street parking spaces and loading berths, yards,
buffer strips, and other open spaces required.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-12)
§ 152.031  DEPTH.
   No lot hereafter platted or created shall be less than 100 feet in depth.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-13)
§ 152.032  REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO STRUCTURES.
   The following yard regulations and standards shall apply to all lots or
tracts of land on which a structure is located.
   (A)   Yards shall be kept unobstructed for their entire depth except as
specified hereinafter.
   (B)   Private driveways, service drives, easements, sidewalks, flagpoles,
arbors, trellises, fences, walls, columns, light poles, hydrants, patios,
accessory signs, and other decorative recreational and utility devices and
equipment may be placed in any yard.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the following
visibility regulations and standards shall apply.
      (1)   Interior lot. Fences, walls, and/or hedges may be placed in any
yard or along the edge of any yard provided that no fence, wall or hedge,
except in the case of a junk yard, along the sides or front edge of the front
yard of an interior lot shall exceed the height here permitted:
         (a)   Four feet where the front yard dimension is the minimum
hereinafter established; and
         (b)   For each additional ten feet of front yard above the minimum
hereinafter established, the height of such fence, wall, or hedge may be
increased six inches.
      (2)   Corner lot. On a corner lot nothing shall be constructed, erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as materially to impede
vision between a height of two and one-half feet above the centerline grades of
the intersecting streets in an area bounded by the street right-of-way lines 50
feet from the nearest point of intersection. Beyond such 50-foot limits,
division (C)(1) above shall apply.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-14)
§ 152.033  TRAILER COACHES.
   Except as permitted under the provisions of §
152.022(D), no occupied trailer coach shall be permitted on any lot or tract of
land outside of a trailer coach park except the trailer coach of a bona fide
guest of the occupant of a dwelling located on such lot or tract of land. Such
temporary location of a trailer coach shall not exceed 30 consecutive days and
two such 30-day periods within one calendar year.
(1977 Code, § 5-3-15)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
DISTRICTS
§ 152.045  R - RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted  uses. Within the R - Residential District, the following
uses are permitted:
      (1)   Dwellings: one-family, two-family;
      (2)   Public parks, playgrounds;
      (3)   Conversion of any existing building to a permitted use;
      (4)   Agricultural uses as permitted in §
152.048(A); and
      (5)   Customary accessory uses including, in particular: home
occupations; advertising the sale or rental of the land or buildings upon which
it is located; a nameplate not exceeding two square feet in area; which may
include reference to a home occupation conducted on the premises. No accessory
building shall be used for residence purposes unless it meets the front, rear,
and side yard requirements of a principal building, and the maximum permitted
density is not exceeded.
   (B)   Regulations and standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Each zoning lot shall have an area of at least
9,000 square feet, a lot width of at least 75 feet, and a lot depth of at least
100 feet.
      (2)   Maximum density. The number of dwelling units per lot shall not
exceed the lot area in square feet divided by 2,250 square feet. Fractional
dwelling units resulting from this computation shall not be counted nor rounded
upward to the next higher whole number.
      (3)   Maximum coverage. The amount of the total lot area which may be
covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 30%.
      (4)   Required yards. On every interior lot, a front yard, a rear yard,
and two side yards are required. On every corner lot, a front yard for each lot
side abutting a street, a side yard, and a rear yard are required. In the case
where a lot abuts three streets, three front yards and a side yard are
required. Yard dimensions shall be equal to or greater than the following.
         (a)   Front yard depth where a lot abuts a major street, as designated
on the zoning map, shall be 70 feet from the centerline of such right-of-way,
but not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way line. Where a lot abuts a
collector or a minor street as designated on the zoning map, the minimum depth
of a front yard shall be 55 feet from the centerline but not less than 25 feet
from the right-of-way line. If the building is to be constructed in an
established block where there are existing buildings, the yard depth shall be
the average of the yard depths of two buildings, one on either side.
         (b)   Side yard width shall be ten feet or greater. No accessory
buildings shall project into the required side yard space.
         (c)   Rear yard depth shall be not less than 25 feet. Accessory
buildings may be erected in a rear yard, provided they are located at least
three feet from the rear or side lot lines, and provided further that the
maximum lot coverage is not exceeded.
      (5)   Maximum building height. Except as provided in §
152.029, no principal building shall exceed 30 feet in height, and no accessory
building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (6)   Off-street parking space. All uses shall be provided with off-
street parking spaces according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Dwelling units. One off-street parking space per unit, such
parking spaces shall be located on the same lot or tract as the dwelling unit
served; and
         (b)   Other permitted uses. One off-street parking space per person
normally employed on the lot or tract of land. Any such off-street parking
space or spaces located in the R - Residential District shall not be located in
the required front yard, nor more than 150 feet from such lot served.
(1977 Code, § 5-4)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.046  C - COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. The Commercial District is intended to provide space
for those retail business, service business, and office uses serving the
village area. Within the Commercial District, the following uses are permitted:
      (1)   Retail stores and shops;
      (2)   Banks, post office, medical or dental clinics, and business or
professional offices;
      (3)   Service-type business, such as barber shop, beauty parlor,
laundromat, music, dancing, art or photography studio, servicing or repair of
home appliances or farm equipment, and similar uses;
      (4)   Automobile service stations and public garages, new or used car
sales areas, new or used farm equipment sales areas, but not including the
storage of wrecked vehicles or farm equipment;
      (5)   Hotel, motel, boarding or lodging houses, and dwelling units
located on the same lot with such a permitted use;
      (6)   Clubs, lodges, public meeting halls, theaters, bowling alleys, and
similar places of assembly or recreation;
      (7)   Customary accessory uses located on the same or adjacent lot with a
permitted use. Signs advertising a business, service, or product available on
the premises shall be permitted; provided the total area of such signs shall
not exceed two times the lineal feet of frontage of the zoning lot; and
      (8)   Agricultural uses as permitted in §
152.048(A).
   (B)   Regulations and standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. None specified.
      (2)   Maximum coverage. The amount of the total lot area which may be
covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 50%.
      (3)   Required yards. On every lot in the Commercial District, yards
shall be required as follows:
         (a)   Interior lot. A front yard and rear yard; and
         (b)   Corner lot. A front yard for each lot side abutting a street and
a side yard. Yard dimensions shall be equal to or greater than the following:
            1.   Front yard depth where a lot abuts a major street, as
designated on the zoning map, shall be 70 feet from the centerline of such
right-of-way, but not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way line. Where a lot
abuts a collector or a minor street as designated on the zoning map, the
minimum depth of a front yard shall be 55 feet from the centerline, but not
less than 25 feet from the right-of-way line. If the building is to be
constructed in an established block where there are existing buildings, the
yard depth shall be the average of the yard depths of two buildings, one on
either side;
            2.   Side yard where required, ten feet; and
            3.   Rear yard depth shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (4)   Maximum building height. Except as provided in §
152.029, no principal building shall exceed 30 feet in height, and no accessory
building shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (5)   Off-street parking space. Off-street parking spaces shall be
provided as follows:
         (a)   One off-street parking space shall be provided per dwelling unit
or lodging unit on the same lot or tract of land of such dwelling unit or
lodging unit served; and
         (b)   One off-street parking space per person, normally employed on
the lot or tract of land.
(1977 Code, § 5-5)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.047  I - INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Within the Industrial District the following are
permitted:
      (1)   Grain storage, feed mills, and fertilizer storage and processing,
excluding liquid fertilizer;
      (2)   Wholesale, storage, and warehouse facilities, except those
specifically prohibited;
      (3)   Railroad yards, siding and switching facilities, and public
utilities;
      (4)   Fuel storage, lumber yards, building material storage yard, or
similar storage yards, but not including salvage or junk yards;
      (5)   The manufacture or processing of goods or products;
      (6)   Customary accessory uses;
      (7)   Signs; provided that the gross area of signs shall not exceed six
times the lineal feet of frontage of the lot on which such signs are located;
and
      (8)   Those uses permitted in the Agricultural District, §
152.048(A), subject to the regulations as stated in §
152.048(B).
   (B)   Regulations and standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. None specified.
      (2)   Maximum coverage. The amount of the total lot area which may be
covered by all principal and accessory buildings shall not exceed 50%.
   (C)   Required yards and open spaces. On every lot in the Industrial
District, yards shall be required as follows:
      (1)   Interior lot. A front yard, two side yards, and a rear yard;
      (2)   Corner lot. A front yard on each lot line abutting a street, a side
and a rear yard, except in the case where three lot sides abut a street, there
shall be required, in addition to three front yards, a side yard;
      (3)   Front yard. Front yard depth where a lot abuts a major street, as
designated on the zoning map, shall be 70 feet from the centerline of such
right-of-way, but not less than 30 feet from the right-of-way line. Where a lot
abuts a collector or minor street, as designated on the zoning map, the minimum
depth 55 feet from the centerline, but not less than 25 feet from the right-of-
way line. If the building is to be constructed in an established block where
there are existing buildings, the yard depth shall be the average of the yard
depths of two buildings, one on either side;
      (4)   Side yard. Side yard width shall be ten feet or greater. No
accessory buildings shall project into the required side yard space;
      (5)   Rear yard. Rear yard depth shall not be less than 20 feet. Within
the required yards, or in addition thereto, there shall be sufficient space for
the loading and unloading of motor vehicles off the street; and
      (6)   Buffer. Where a lot abuts a lot in a residential district, there
shall be provided along such lot line a suitable buffer of plant materials,
fencing, or a combination of both, to shield the residential area from the
industrial area. Where the transition from the industrial district to the
residential district is a public street, the front yard in the industrial
district shall be suitably landscaped.
   (D)   Construction. Any permitted use shall be so constructed and operated
as to create no nuisance with respect to noise, vibration, emission of smoke or
particulate matter; toxic, noxious, or odorous matter; glare and heat; or as to
create fire or explosive hazards. For the purpose of this chapter, the
performance standards as to noise, smoke and particulate matter, and fire and
explosive hazards as set forth in the Woodford County Zoning Ordinance shall be
used as a guide.
   (E)   Off-street parking space. Off-street parking shall be provided as
follows:
      (1)   One off-street parking space per person normally employed on the
lot or tract of land; and
      (2)   One off-street parking space for each truck or other vehicle
incidental to the use of such lot or tract of land.
(1977 Code, § 5-6)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.048  A - AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Within the Agricultural District the following uses
are permitted:
      (1)   The growing, harvesting, and storing of crops, including legume,
hay, grain, fruit, and truck or vegetable crops, floriculture, horticulture,
mushroom growing, nurseries, orchards, forestry, and greenhouses;
      (2)   Farm dwellings occupied by farm owners, operators, tenants, or
seasonal or year-round hired farm workers;
      (3)   Farm buildings used for growing, harvesting, and preparing crop
products for market or for use on the farm, or for storing and protecting farm
machinery and equipment from the elements;
      (4)   One-family dwellings; provided that the minimum lot area for each
dwelling unit is five acres; §
152.045(B)(5) and (B)(6) shall apply; and
      (5)   The keeping, raising, or feeding of beef cattle, sheep, goats,
horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, and/or poultry.
   (B)   Regulations and standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Five acres.
      (2)   Required yards and open space. The following setback line
regulations and standards shall apply to all structures, except as are
permitted in yards:
         (a)   Front yards.
            1.   Where the lots abut a major street, as designated on the
zoning map, the minimum setback shall be 150 feet from the centerline of such
right-of-way, but not less than 60 feet from the right-of-way line; and
            2.   Where the lot abuts a collector or a minor street, as
designated on the zoning map, the minimum setback line shall be 100 feet as
measured from the centerline of such right-of-way, but not less than 60 feet
from the right-of-way line.
         (b)   Side yard. Minimum 30 feet, and for each additional story above
the first two stories, add ten feet.
         (c)   Rear yard. Minimum 100 feet.
         (d)   Floodwater restrictions. Notwithstanding the above minimum yard
requirements, no building or structure shall be placed closer than 50 feet to
the centerline of Snag Creek, unless the applicant can show that closer
placement will not restrict or impede the passage of floodwater.
         (e)   Livestock. Structures used for the housing of livestock or
poultry shall not be located closer than 125 feet to any adjoining property
line designated on the zoning map as a Residential District.
   (C)   Maximum number of animals on property.
      (1)   The maximum number of animals shall not exceed:
         (a)   Livestock: one animal per acre of fenced pasture; and
         (b)   Poultry: four animals per acre of fenced pasture.
      (2)   At no point on the property line of the property used for the
keeping, raising, or feeding of livestock or poultry shall any noise, smoke and
particulate matter, vibrations, toxic or noxious matter, odors, vapors, or
gases of such use be objectionable to the occupant of any adjacent property.
(1977 Code, § 5-7)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966; Ord. passed 2-10-1992)
§ 152.049  SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Definition. A SPECIAL USE is a use which is necessary or desirable for
the public welfare, but which is potentially incompatible with the uses
normally permitted in the zoning district established herein. It is hereby
declared the policy and purpose of this chapter to employ the special use as a
flexible means of permitting certain exceptions to the districts established
and the rules and regulations adopted herein, in cases where the public benefit
of such uses outweighs the potential harm, and under such conditions imposed as
are necessary to protect the public health, safety, and welfare and individual
property rights.
   (B)   Authorizing special use permits. Special use permits may be authorized
by the Zoning Board in accordance with the procedure set forth in §
152.069, when it appears:
      (1)   That it is reasonably necessary for the public convenience at that
location;
      (2)   That it is so designed, located, and proposed as to be operated so
that it will not be injurious to the district in which it shall be located or
otherwise detrimental to the public welfare;
      (3)   That it conforms to the applicable regulations and standards of,
and preserves the essential character of, the district in which it shall be
located; and
      (4)   That in the case of an existing nonconforming use, will make such
use more compatible with its surroundings.
   (C)   Schedule of special uses. Special uses which may be authorized by the
Zoning Board are as follows:
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings in the R - Residential District, subject to
§
152.045(B);
      (2)   The keeping, raising, or feeding of livestock or poultry, including
dairying, poultry, swine, sheep, goats, beef cattle, pony and horse
productions, fur farms or beekeeping or such structures for housing livestock,
poultry, or bees or for preparing livestock or poultry products for market in
all districts, subject to the following standards:
         (a)   At no point on the lot line of such special use shall any noise,
smoke and particulate matter, vibrations, toxic or noxious matter, odors,
vapors, or gases of such use be objectionable to the occupant of any adjacent
property; and
         (b)   No such special use shall discharge into any drainage channel or
watercourse material which would contaminate or make undesirable any lands or
waters outside of the lot.
      (3)   Electric and/or gas substations, public waterworks and appurtenant
structures, telephone exchanges, police stations, fire stations, and
governmental administration buildings in all districts;
      (4)   Trailer coaches and trailer coach parks:
         (a)   Trailer coaches or individual lots outside of a trailer coach
park in the R - Residential and A - Agricultural Districts, subject to the
regulations of the district; and
         (b)   Trailer coach parks in the R - Residential and A - Agricultural
Districts, subject to regulations of the district and the following:
            1.   Applicant shall submit a license by appropriate authority;
            2.   The applicant shall submit plans and specifications for the
proposed trailer coach park, the site shall not contain less than three acres,
have not less than 15 trailer coach spaces at first occupancy, and have no more
than ten trailer coach spaces per gross acre, the minimum size of all spaces
shall be not less than 3,000 square feet;
            3.   All trailer coach spaces shall be provided with a sanitary
sewer system and public water system;
            4.   Each trailer coach space shall be provided with one off-street
automobile parking space; and
            5.   Each trailer coach park shall be limited to providing no more
than one sign per public road entrance of not more than eight square feet in
size.
      (5)   Churches or similar places of worship, parish houses, Sunday
schools, rectory or parsonage, in the R - Residential, A - Agricultural, and C
- Commercial Districts;
      (6)   Public, parochial, or private schools (which may include a convent
or teacherage) in the R - Residential and A - Agricultural Districts;
      (7)   Public libraries, museums, art galleries, community centers in the
R - Residential, C - Commercial, and A - Agricultural Districts;
      (8)   Hospitals, nursing homes, doctors clinics, veterinary clinics in
the R - Residential, C - Commercial, and A - Agricultural Districts;
      (9)   Clubs, private clubs, private lodges, country clubs, and golf
courses in the R - Residential and A - Agricultural Districts;
      (10)   Cemeteries in the R - Residential and A - Agricultural Districts;
      (11)   Junk yards and salvage yards in the I - Industrial District;
provided, they shall be enclosed on all sides by a solid fence, wall, or hedge
at least eight feet in height;
      (12)   Topsoil removal in all districts;
      (13)   Sewage treatment plants in the A - Agricultural and I - Industrial
Districts;
      (14)   Beauty shops and barber shops in the R - Residential District;
      (15)   Dwelling units in commercial buildings in the C - Commercial
District;
      (16)   Auto repair and auto body shops, or combination thereof, in the R
- Residential District; provided the following conditions exist:
         (a)   The business of auto repair or auto body shop shall be conducted
in an enclosed building or structure;
         (b)   The owner of such auto repair business or auto body shop shall
reside on the premises of the business;
         (c)   No more than two motor vehicles belonging to persons other than
the owner are located anywhere on the property; and
         (d)   A special use permit issued for auto repair or auto body shop,
or combination thereof, shall be issued annually and shall be reviewed for
compliance by the Zoning Board annually from the date it was originally issued.
   (D)   Applicability of district regulations. In addition to any special
conditions or restrictions prescribed by the Board, the yard and setback line
regulations and standards of the district in which the special use is located
shall apply.
(1977 Code, § 5-8)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966; Ord. passed 2-11-1991)
§ 152.050  NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Enlargement/expansion. A nonconforming use of land, premise, or
structure shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended after the effective
date hereof by the attachment of a structure, premises, or land, or additional
signs intended to be seen off the premises or land, or by the addition of other
uses of a nature which would be prohibited in the district involved.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any
lot which is a lot of record on the effective date hereof. This provision shall
apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or
both, that are generally applicable in the district; provided that yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lots shall conform to the regulations hereinafter provided.
      (2)   Yard regulations and standards for single nonconforming lots of
record:
         (a)   Front yard. The front yard regulations and standards of the
district in which such lot is located shall apply;
         (b)   Rear yard. The rear yard regulations and standards of the
district in which such lot is located shall apply; and
         (c)   Side yard.
            1.   On such lot with a width of 50 feet or more, two side yards
shall be provided as required by the regulations and standards of the district
in which such lot is located.
            2.   On such lot less than 50 feet, but not less than 27 feet in
width, two side yards shall be provided, each equaling 10% of the lot width.
            3.   On such lot less than 27 feet but not less than 20 feet in
width, the structure located on such lot shall have a width of not more than
90% of such lot width. Only one side yard need be provided, equaling in width
the difference between the lot width and the maximum permitted width of the
structure. No other side yard need be provided. The wall of any building facing
the side of the lot on which no side yard is required shall be without openings
and shall not be constructed as a common wall.
   (C)   Repairs and maintenance. On any structure devoted in whole or in part
to any nonconforming use, or which itself is nonconforming, work may be done in
any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, to an extent
not to exceed 10% of the then current replacement value of the structure;
provided that the volume of such building or the size of such structure as it
existed at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter shall
not be increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any structure or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public
safety, upon order of such official.
   (D)   Discontinuance. If a nonconforming use has ceased for a period of one
year or more, it shall not be re-established unless the nonconforming use was
in a building designed, arranged, or intended for such use, and which building
does not reasonably lend itself to occupancy by a conforming use. Once changed
to a conforming use, no building or land shall be permitted to revert to a
nonconforming use.
   (E)   Partial destruction. If a nonconforming structure is destroyed by any
means to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 5-9)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.065  ZONING OFFICER.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Officer, who
shall be appointed by the President of the Village Board by and with the
consent of the Village Board. No zoning permit or certificate of occupancy
shall be issued by him or her, except where the provisions of this chapter have
been complied with.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-1)
§ 152.066  ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   When zoning use permit required. A zoning use permit shall be obtained
from the Zoning Officer by the owner, lessee, or other person having the right
to possession, or his or her authorized agent, of any property or structure
before commencing:
      (1)   To establish, occupy, or change the use of a structure or land
either by itself or in addition to another use;
      (2)   To construct or erect a new structure or part thereof;
      (3)   To extend or move any structure or part thereof;
      (4)   To change one nonconforming use to another such use or to a special
use; or
      (5)   To extend, expand, change, or re-establish any nonconforming use;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to those persons, nor to
property, structures, or uses exempted from the regulation of this chapter by
statute or by other provisions of this chapter, except to the extent
specifically provided hereinafter.
   (B)   Application for zoning use permit. Applications for zoning use permits
shall be filed in the office of the Zoning Officer on forms prescribed by him
or her. Such applications shall:
      (1)   State the location, street number, lot, block, and/or tract
comprising the legal description of the property;
      (2)   State the name and address of the owner, the applicant, if
different from the owner, and the contractor if known;
      (3)   State the estimated costs;
      (4)   Describe the uses to be established or expanded;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a plan in duplicate, or duplicate prints thereof,
drawn approximately to scale, showing the:
         (a)   Actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
         (b)   Size, shape, and location of the use to be established or the
structure to be constructed;
         (c)   Size, shape, and location of all existing structures and uses
located on the lot;
         (d)   Minimum floor elevations and highest known floor level, where
applicable;
         (e)   Ingress and egress;
         (f)   Off-street parking spaces and loading berths;
         (g)   Water supply and sewage disposal facilities, including a true
and correct copy of any permit; and
         (h)   Other information as may be necessary to provide for the proper
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      (6)   Include any accessory structure or use established or constructed
at the same time the main or principal structure, or main or principal use is
established or constructed.
   (C)   Issuance of zoning use permit.
      (1)   If the Zoning Officer determines that an application for zoning use
permit and the use applied for conform to the applicable regulations and
standards of this chapter, and if an application for a zoning compliance
certificate has been made, he or she shall issue a zoning use permit.
      (2)   Each zoning use permit for a main or principal structure, or main
or principal use shall also cover any accessory structure or accessory use
established or constructed at the same time on the same lot or tract of land.
      (3)   The Zoning Officer shall issue an original and duplicate copy of
the zoning use permit to the applicant and shall retain another duplicate copy
for his or her records.
      (4)   The applicant’s duplicate copy shall be posted in plain sight on
the premises for which it is issued until the zoning compliance certificate has
been issued.
   (D)   Expiration of zoning use permit.
      (1)   If the work described on any zoning use permit shall not have begun
within 90 days from the issuance thereof, said permit shall expire and be
cancelled by the Zoning Officer and written notice thereof shall be given to
the applicant.
      (2)   If the work described on any zoning use permit shall not have been
substantially completed within 365 consecutive days from the issuance thereof,
said permit shall expire and be cancelled by the Zoning Officer and written
notice thereof shall be given to the applicant, together with notice that
further work as described on the cancelled permit shall not proceed until a new
permit shall have been issued; provided, however, that for commercial and
industrial buildings, the permit shall extend for such period as set forth in
the application for the zoning use permit as the time necessary to complete the
building.
      (3)   If a new zoning use permit is issued granting additional time for
completion of the work, such new permit may require, at the discretion of the
Board, a limitation on time allowed for the completion of the work and a
performance bond to ensure completion within the time set. Such new permit
shall not, in any case, be valid after 365 consecutive days from the date of
issuance thereof.
      (4)   A zoning use permit issued for the establishment of the use of land
where no structure is involved, or on which land a structure is accessory to
the main or principal use, such main or principal use not involving any
structure shall not expire. The land so used shall be inspected by the Zoning
Officer at one year intervals from the date of issuance of such permit to
ensure compliance with the regulations and standards of this chapter.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-2)
§ 152.067  ZONING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   No land shall be occupied or used, and no building hereafter erected,
altered, or extended shall be used or changed in use until a zoning compliance
certificate shall have been issued by the Zoning Officer.
   (B)   All zoning compliance certificates shall be applied for coincident
with the application for a zoning use permit, and said certificate shall be
issued within three days after the erection or alteration shall have been
approved.
   (C)   Zoning compliance certificates for the use of vacant land shall be
applied for before any such land shall be occupied or used, and a zoning
compliance certificate shall be issued within three days after the application
has been made; provided such use is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   The Zoning Officer shall maintain a record of all certificates, and
copies shall be furnished upon request to any person having proprietary or
tenancy interest in the building affected.
   (E)   No permit for excavation for, or the erection, alteration, or repairs
to, any building shall be issued until an application has been made for a
zoning compliance certificate.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-3)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.068  FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be charged for the processing of the
applications and the issuance of zoning use permits, and shall be collected by
the Zoning Officer, who shall be accountable to the village for such fees.
New construction of a main or principal structure of 1,000 square feet of   $50
floor area or less
New construction of a building of more than 1,000 square feet of floor      $5
area; per 100 square feet of floor area or additional fraction thereof
New construction of an accessory structure for the first 50 square feet of  $10
floor area or less
New construction of an accessory structure of more than 50 square feet of   $20
floor area or additional fraction thereof
Alter, remodel, or extend a major or principal structure for the first 300  $15
square feet of floor area or less
Alter, remodel, or extend a main or principal structure per 100 square feet $5
of floor area or fraction thereof over 300 square feet
Alter, remodel, or extend an accessory structure of 50 square feet of floor $10
area or less
Alter, remodel, or extend an accessory structure of more than 50 square     $20
feet of floor area or additional fraction thereof
Establish a use where no structure is involved                              $10
Move a main or principal structure from one lot to another                  $50
Move an accessory structure from one lot to another                         $20
Change in use (special use)                                                 $25
To demolish any main or principal structure                                 $25
To demolish any accessory structure                                         $10
A new construction of a swimming pool and accessory fence                   $20
 
   (B)   There shall be no refund on any zoning use permit fees paid hereunder,
except that on written application the Village Board may refund, at its
discretion, a portion of the fee which the Village Board determines exceeds the
cost of zoning administration; provided that the work authorized by such zoning
permit is completed within the original time limit.
   (C)   No additional fee shall be charged for a permit renewal unless there
is a change in the plans, in which case the application shall be filed as a new
application with proper fee.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-4)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966; Ord. passed 8-14-1989)
§ 152.069  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Established. A Board of Appeals is hereby established in accordance
with the provisions of the statute applicable thereto. Regular meetings of the
Zoning Board shall be held at such time and place within the village as the
Zoning Board may determine. Special meetings may be held at the call of the
Chairperson, or as determined by the Zoning Board. Such Chairperson, or in his
or her absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Zoning Board shall be open to the
public. The Zoning Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote
of each member on every question. If any member is absent or fails to vote, the
minutes shall indicate such a fact. The Zoning Board shall adopt its own rules
of procedure not in conflict with the statute or this chapter. (See § 11-13-
3 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.)
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Board. The Zoning Board shall hear and decide
appeals from any order, requirements, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Officer. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter. The Zoning Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or amend the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from to the extent and manner
that the Zoning Board may decide to be fitting and proper in the premises, and
to that end the Zoning Board shall also have all the powers of the officer from
whom the appeal is taken. When a property owner shows that a strict application
of the terms of this chapter relating to the use, construction, or alteration
of buildings or structures, or to the use of land, imposes upon him or her
practical difficulties or particular hardship, then the Zoning Board may make
such variations of the strict application of terms of this chapter as are in
harmony with its general purpose and intent when the Zoning Board is satisfied,
under the evidence heard before it, that a granting of such variation will not
merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate
some demonstrable hardship so great as to warrant a variation in the following
instances:
      (1)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot in single ownership as shown of record;
      (2)   To make a variance, by reason of an exceptional situation,
surroundings, or condition of a specific piece of property or by the reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of a specific piece of property
of record, or by reason of exceptional topographical conditions, the strict
application of any provision of this chapter would result in peculiar and
exceptional practical difficulties or particular hardship upon the owner of
such property, and amount to a practical confiscation of property, as
distinguished from a mere inconvenience to such owner; provided such relief can
be granted without substantial detriment to the public good and without
substantially impairing the general purpose and intent of the comprehensive
plan as established by the regulations and provisions contained in this
chapter;
      (3)   To interpret the provisions of this chapter where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the district
map fixing the several districts; and
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board the power or authority to alter or change the zoning title or the
district map; such power and authority being reserved to the Village Board. The
Zoning Board may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the use of the
premises benefitted by a variation after an application for a permit has been
made to the Zoning Officer and after duly advertised public hearing held by the
Zoning Board as prescribed by statute. The notice of hearing shall contain the
address or location of the property for which the variation or other ruling by
the Zoning Board is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature of the
appeal. The applicant shall pay the actual expenses of the public hearing,
including publication of notices and any fee for meeting space.
   (C)   Special uses. An application for one of the special uses of land
specified in §
152.049(C) shall be made by filing a written application or petition to the
Zoning Board. Such application shall:
      (1)   State the name, address of applicant and the owner;
      (2)   State location of property for which the special use is sought;
      (3)   State the specific special use desired; and
      (4)   State facts sufficient to demonstrate that the conditions
prescribed in §
152.049(B) exist and support such statement with any plans and/or data
necessary for a proper understanding of the application, or such plans and/or
data as are recommended by the Zoning Board. If the application for a special
use is in proper form, the Zoning Board shall hold a public hearing on such
matter in accordance with the provisions of §
152.071.
   (D)   Appeals to Zoning Board.
      (1)   An appeal to the Zoning Board may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the village. The appeal
shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the Zoning Board by a
general rule by filing with the Zoning Officer from whom the appeal is taken
and with the Zoning Board a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
The Zoning Officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Zoning Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Zoning Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would in
his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this event,
the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which
may be granted by the Zoning Board or by a court of record on application and
on notice to the Zoning Officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause
shown.
      (3)   The Zoning Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the appeal within
a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent,
or by attorney. The Zoning Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion
ought to be made in the premises and to that end has all the powers of the
Zoning Officer from whom the appeal is taken.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-5)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.070  APPEALS TO COURTS.
   (A)   All final administrative decisions of the Zoning Board under this
chapter shall be subject to judicial review and which appeal may be taken by
any person aggrieved, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau of the
village, pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Review Act, approved
May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules
adopted pursuant thereto. The term “administrative decision” is defined in Art.
III of the Code of Civil Procedure, 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be made within 30 days from the date of the action
appealed from, by filing with the Zoning Officer and the Zoning Board a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Officer shall forthwith
transmit to the Zoning Board all papers constituting the record upon which the
actions appealed from was taken.
   (C)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Zoning Officer certifies to the Zoning Board, after the notice
of the appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reasons of facts stated
in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to
life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than
by a restraining order of record on application, on notice to the Zoning
Officer, and on due cause shown.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-6)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
§ 152.071  AMENDMENTS.
   The regulations and standards, restrictions, and district boundaries set
forth in this chapter may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed,
or repealed. No such action may be taken unless and until:
   (A)   A written application is submitted to the Zoning Board. Such
application may be initiated by the Village Board, the Planning Commission, or
the owners of more than 50% of the area involved;
   (B)   Each such application, except that initiated by the Village Board or
by the Planning Commission, shall be accompanied by a fee as may be determined
by the Village Board to be paid by the applicant;
   (C)   At least 15-days’ but not more than 30-days’ notice of the time and
place of the hearing of such action shall be published in an official paper or
a paper of general circulation in the village. The notice of such hearing shall
contain the information relating to such action. The applicant shall pay the
cost of such publication;
   (D)   A public hearing shall be held. Any person may appear in person, by
agent, or by attorney;
   (E)   The Zoning Board may, by majority vote, postpone or adjourn from time
to time any public hearing. In the event of such postponement or adjournment,
further publication of such action need not be made;
   (F)   Within 30 days after the close of the public hearing, the Zoning Board
shall make a report to the Village Board; and
   (G)   Action of the Village Board.
      (1)   In the event that the report of the Zoning Board is adverse to such
action referred to it, such action shall not be passed except by the favorable
vote of two-thirds of all the members of the Village Board.
      (2)   In case of a written protest against any such action:
         (a)   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage,
the zoning classification of which is proposed to be altered;
         (b)   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley from the frontage, the zoning
classification of which is proposed to be altered; or
         (c)   Signed and acknowledged by the owners of 20% of the frontage
directly opposite from the frontage, the zoning classification of which is
proposed to be altered; and filed with the Village Clerk, such action shall not
be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds of all the members of the
Village Board.
(1977 Code, § 5-11-1)  (Ord. passed 9-12-1966)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.085  REGULATIONS.
   To provide for an orderly growth of the village and to provide for the rules
and regulations for subdividing within the village, the Village Board hereby
adopts the following provisions as guide for all further developments.
   (A)   The subdivider shall furnish a recordable, acceptable plat and shall
record the same in the proper county in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
said county. The plat must be approved by the Village Engineer.
   (B)   All roads of the subdivision shall meet the requirements of the
state’s Motor Vehicle Department before blacktopping.
   (C)   There shall be adequate fire hydrants as in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the Fire District and these shall be shown on the proposed
plat upon installation.
   (D)   The subdivider shall furnish water mains with the mains being not less
than four-inch mains, being standards as established by the American Waterworks
Association, C900 water main to be tested at one and one-half times the system
pressure.
   (E)   Curbing shall be optional at the subdivider’s discretion, but shall
not be furnished by the village.
   (F)   Water mains shall be placed in the ground with a cover not less than
four feet in depth.
   (G)   Water meters shall be installed by the subdivider in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the ordinances of the village, and said meters
shall be purchased only through the village. Each separate parcel shall have
its own meter.
   (H)   All sewers and sanitation lines shall be in compliance with the
statutes of the state.
   (I)   The village shall reserve the right to mark on the proposed plat of
the subdivision the location for storm sewer catch basin, and to install same
upon the completion of the sewer system.
   (J)   The subdivider shall dedicate a street not less than 75 feet, or more
if the state’s Motor Vehicle Department has changed legislation demanding more;
but the subdivider may dedicate a street of 50 feet by giving an easement to
the village of a distance not less than ten feet on each side of the street for
the purpose of the installation of the utilities.
   (K)   Alleys are not required by the village.
   (L)   Utilities are not required to be placed underground.
   (M)   Electric street lights shall be located and shown on the plat and
shall be approved by the Village Board. All costs of acquiring and placing of
the poles and lights shall be borne by the subdivider.
   (N)   All lights shall be of a LED description.
   (O)   All service lines shall be of a specification of type K copper.
   (P)   Driveways shall not be furnished, and in the event a lot owner cements
his or her driveway and cements the easement hereinbefore given, or cements on
the village property, this shall be the responsibility of the owner to replace,
if necessary.
   (Q)   The planting of shrubs and trees upon the easement or right-of-way of
the village shall be done at the expense and risk of the property owner.
   (R)   The village adopts the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction (2016) and the Bureau of Local Roads and Streets Manual (2008).
(1977 Code, § 5-12-1)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever a violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. Such complaint shall state
fully the causes and basis thereof and shall be filed with the Zoning Officer.
The Zoning Officer shall record properly such complaint, immediately
investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   In case any structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
converted, or any structure or land is used in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   The Zoning Officer may revoke or suspend any permit issued by him
or her which is authorized by this chapter; and
      (2)   The Zoning Officer, or any owner or tenant of real property in the
same contiguous zoning district as the structure or land in question, in
addition to other remedies, may institute an appropriate action or proceeding
in any court of competent jurisdiction:
         (a)   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, or use of any structure;
         (b)   To prevent the occupancy of the structure or land;
         (c)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or
about such structure or land; and/or
         (d)   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation, or agent, employee or contractor of
such, who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with, or
who resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine between the amount of $25 and $500 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days, or both, for each offense, and said person, firm, or
corporation shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(1977 Code, § 5-10-7)  (Ord. 9-12-1966; Ord. passed 2-11-1991)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
      
III.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
      
IV.   ZONING
TABLE I:  REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
99-10    6-16-1999   Approving the tax increment redevelopment plan and
                     redevelopment project
99-11    6-16-1999   Designating the tax increment financing redevelopment
                     project area
99-12    6-16-1999   Adopting the tax increment financing
00-1     1-10-2000   Amending the tax increment redevelopment area
00-2     1-10-2000   Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment
                     agreement between the village and Vince J. Winkler
00-3     1-10-2000   Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment
                     agreement between the village and Melvin S. Winkler
00-4     1-10-2000   Authorizing the establishment of interested parties
                     registries and registration rules
                     Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment
00-15    8-14-2000   agreement between the village and Ries, McKitrick & Newton
                     Mortuary
01-02    4-9-2001    Approving and authorizing the execution of a redevelopment
                     agreement between the village and Alpha Community Bank
13-05    8-12-2013   Approving an amendment to the TIF District redevelopment
                     project area
                    
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Extending the expiration date of the cable television
96-4          6-10-1996   franchise agreement authorizing the construction and
                          operation of a cable communication system
                          Authorizing the transfer of the cable television
Res. 96-5     7-8-1996    franchise and the assignment of the assets and the
                          franchise
                          Extending the expiration date of the cable television
96-9          9-9-1996    franchise agreement authorizing the construction and
                          operation of a cable communication system
96-10         11-11-1996  Granting a franchise to Triax Midwest Associates for
                          cable communications
                          Approving and authorizing the execution of a
98-1          4-20-1998   professional services agreement between the village
                          and Thomas N. Jacob & Associates
99-4          4-12-1999   Authorizing the use by the sewerage system of village
                          streets, alleys, and other property
Res. 99-2     7-12-1999   Approving the transfer of the cable television
                          franchise
04-01         2-9-2004    Authorizing the use by the sewerage system of village
                          streets, alleys, and other property
                          Granting permissive use of portions of permanent and
05-01         4-11-2005   temporary sewerage easements and a limited variance
                          of restrictive side yard setback ordinances
                          Approving and authorizing the execution of a first
05-03         4-11-2005   amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between
                          the village and Lowpoint-Washburn Community School
                          District #1
05-08         8-8-2005    Authorizing the use by the water system of village
                          streets, alleys, rights-of-way, and other property
                          Approving and authorizing the execution of a
06-02         1-9-2006    professional services agreement between the village
                          and Thomas N. Jacob & Associates and the Economic
                          Development Group, LTD
06-10         9-11-2006   Approving the intergovernmental agreement with Grant
                          Memorial Park concerning police
                          Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League
06-13         11-13-2006  Risk Management Association and authorizing the
                          execution of an intergovernmental cooperation
                          contract
                          Approving the termination of the first amendment to
13-1          2-11-2013   the intergovernmental agreement between the village
                          and Lowpoint-Washburn Community Unit School District
                          No. 21
                          Extending the authorization to Ameren Illinois
14-01         3-10-2014   Company to construct, operate, and maintain a gas
                          utility system
Res. 15-4     5-11-2015   Authorizing the execution of a law enforcement mutual
                          aid agreement
                          Extending an existing franchise to Amreren to
16-05         7-11-2016   construct, reconstruct, excavate, maintain and
                          operate an electric utility system
                         
 
TABLE III:  PROPERTY TRANSFERS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
-     5-11-  Annexation of certain lands in the village
      1992
94-   5-9-   Vacation of a part of a street in the village
100   1994
94-   11-14- Sale of the corner of Maple and Bituminous Streets
      1994
1995- 8-8-   Vacation of a section of Washington Street
3     1995
-     11-13- Sale of two parcels of real estate
      1995
96-01 1-8-   Sale of 308 East Chestnut to Daniel and Linda Shoemake
      1996
96-8  8-26-  Annexing territory to the village
      1996
Res.  3-10-
R-97- 1997   Lease of property to Mr. and Mrs. Gerald F. Eckstein
1
Res.  3-10-
R-97- 1997   Lease of property to the Washburn American Legion Post
2
99-2  5-10-  Confirming annexation of territory to the village
      1999
99-3  5-10-  Annexing territory to the village
      1999
2000- 3-13-  Annexing territory to the village
7     2000
Res.  2-12-
R-01- 2001   Sale of surplus real estate to Alvin Grebner
1
01-05 9-10-  Confirming annexation of territory to the village
      2001
Res.  5-13-  Authorizing the transfer of real estate to the village’s Fire Protection
R-02- 2002   District
02
Res.  7-14-
R-03- 2003   Sale of surplus real estate to Countyline Building, LLC
04(B)
03-01 11-10- Confirming annexation of territory to the village
      2003
Res.  4-12-
R-04- 2004   Exchange of surplus real estate with Alvin Grebner
03
04-08 12-13- Vacation of a section of two alleys
      2004
05-04 6-13-  Vacation of a section of Magnolia Street in Woodford County
      2005
Res.  8-8-
R-05- 2005   Sale of surplus real estate to Countyline Building, LLC
05
Res.  8-8-
R-05- 2005   Sale of surplus real estate to Alvin Grebner
06
Res.  11-16-
R-05- 2005   Sale of surplus real estate to Sean Webb
07
07-01 2-12-  Authorizing the use by the village of a part of Half-Moon Prairie Park as
      2007   a rights-of-way for bridge construction
Res.  6-11-
R-07- 2007   Sale of surplus real estate to William Vancil
04
09-01 4-28-  Vacation of a portion of an alley in Woodford County
      2009
09-02 10-12- Confirming annexation of territory to the village
      2009
Res.  10-10-
R-11- 2011   Sale of surplus real estate to Lee Grebner
04
11-04 11-14- Vacation of a section of an alley in block 7 of Black’s Addition
      2011
16-01 3-14-  Vacation of a section of an alley in Block 2 of Freeman’s First Addition
      2016
            
 
TABLE IV:  ZONING
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
01-06         10-12-2001  Rezoning an annexed territory from residential to
                          agricultural
06-03         2-13-2006   Rezoning 10.5915 acres of property, more or less,
                          lying generally north of State Street
06-04         2-13-2006   Rezoning 3-05 acres of property, more or less, lying
                          generally north of State Street
06-05         2-13-2006   Rezoning 1.5 acres of property, more or less, lying
                          generally north of State Street
06-06         2-13-2006   Rezoning 2.2228 acres of property, more or less,
                          lying generally north of State Street
Res. R-06-01  3-13-2006   Approval of village zoning map
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1977 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01            10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02            10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03            10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04            10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.09            10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.11            10.04
5 ILCS 70/2               10.04
5 ILCS 120/2(C)           30.02
5 ILCS 315/3              31.16
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.    31.15
10 ILCS 5/1-3             31.16
10 LLCS 5/9-1.4           31.16
10 ILCS 5/9-3             31.16
30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.     51.001
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.    32.01
35 IlCS 115/9             110.35
35 ILCS 120/3             110.36
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.     111.01
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.   111.01,
                          111.04
50 7705/1 et seq.         32.27
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1           10.99,
                          151.001
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1         10.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-4           30.42
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9           30.42
65 ILCS 5/8-3-13          30.42
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1          30.42,
                          110.36
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2          111.04
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5          110.35
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3          32.28
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3         152.069
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2         151.001
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8         151.001
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2         151.001
130 ILCS 40/1 et seq.     130.04
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.    151.048
220 ILCS 5/9-221          111.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222          111.01
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1        111.01
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.    51.023
225 ILCS 345/1 et seq.    50.01
230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.  132.08
235 ILCS 5/4-1            115.33—
                          115.35
305 ILCS 5/11-8           30.02
305 ILCS 5/11-9           30.02
                          50.01,
415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.      151.027,
                          151.028,
                          151.032
415 ILCS 30/1 et seq.     50.01
415 ILCS 35/1 et seq.     50.01
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.      91.07,
                          91.08
625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.  70.01,
                          71.02
625 ILCS 5/4-212          90.13
625 ILCS 5/11-500         71.05
625 ILCS 5/11-501         71.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1(e)   71.04
625 ILCS 5/12-201         71.04
705 ILCS 405/1-1 et seq.  133.99
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(b)      133.03
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(c)      133.03,
                          133.03
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(d)      133.01
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(e)      133.99
720 ILCS 5/28-2(b)        132.01
720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.    134.01
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.  134.01
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.  152.070
745 ILCS 10/1-101 et seq. 30.02
750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.     133.03
765 ILCS 205/2            151.065
820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq. 30.27
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code Section 2016 Code Section
1977 Code Section 2016 Code Section
1-3-2             10.02
1-4               10.99
1-5-1             30.01
1-5-2             30.02
1-5-3             30.03
1-5-4             30.04
1-5-5             30.06
1-5-6             30.07
1-5-7             30.08
1-6-1             30.20
1-6-2             30.21
1-6-3             30.22
1-6-4             30.23
1-6-5             30.24
1-6-6             30.25
1-6-7             30.26
1-6-8             30.27
1-7-1             30.40—
                  30.46
1-8-1             30.60—
                  30.65
1-9-1             32.25
1-10-1            11.01
1-12              11.02
1-13-1            32.28
2-1-1             32.01
2-1-2             32.02
2-1-3             32.03
2-1-4             32.04
2-1-5             32.05
2-1-6             32.06
2-1-7             32.07
2-1-8             32.08
2-1-9             32.09
2-1-11            32.11
2-1-12            32.11
3-1-1             110.01
3-1-2             110.02
3-1-3             110.03
3-1-4             110.04
3-1-5             110.05
3-1-6             110.06
3-1-7             110.07
3-2-1             115.01
3-2-2             115.02
3-2-3             115.03
3-2-4             115.04
3-2-5             115.05
3-2-6             115.25
3-2-7             115.06
3-2-8             115.07
3-2-9             115.08
3-2-10            115.09
3-2-11            115.10
3-2-12            115.26
3-2-13            115.27
3-2-14            115.28
3-2-15            115.11
3-2-16            115.30
3-2-17            115.99
3-2-18            115.12,
                  115.99
3-2-19            115.31,
                  115.99
3-2-20            115.32,
                  115.99
3-2-21            115.33
3-2-22            115.34
3-2-23            115.35
3-2-24            115.99
3-2-25            115.36
3-3-1             112.01
3-3-2             112.02
3-3-3             112.03
3-3-4             112.04
3-3-5             112.99
3-4-1             112.15
3-4-2             112.16
3-4-3             112.17
3-5-1             113.01
3-5-2             113.02
3-6-1             110.35
3-6-2             110.36
3-7-1             114.01
3-7-2             114.02
3-7-3             114.03
3-7-4             114.04
3-7-5             114.05
3-7-6             114.06
3-7-7             114.07
3-7-8             114.08
3-7-9             114.09
3-7-10            114.10
3-7-11            114.11
3-7-12            114.12
3-7-13            114.13
3-7-15            114.99
4-1-1             150.01
4-1-2             150.02
4-1-3             150.03
4-1-4             150.04
4-1-5             150.05
4-1-6             150.06
4-1-7             150.07
4-1-8             150.08
5-1-1             152.001
5-1-2             152.002
5-1-3             152.003
5-1-4             152.004
5-2-1             152.005
5-2-2             152.006
5-2-3             152.007
5-2-4             152.008
5-3-1             152.020
5-3-2             152.021
5-3-3             152.022
5-3-4             152.023
5-3-5             152.024
5-3-7             152.025
5-3-8             152.026
5-3-9             152.027
5-3-10            152.028
5-3-11            152.029
5-3-12            152.030
5-3-13            152.031
5-3-14            152.032
5-3-15            152.033
5-4               152.045
5-5               152.046
5-6               152.047
5-7               152.048
5-8               152.049
5-9               152.050
5-10-1            152.065
5-10-2            152.066
5-10-3            152.067
5-10-4            152.068
5-10-5            152.069
5-10-6            152.070
5-10-7            152.999
5-11-1            152.009,
                  152.071
5-12-1            152.085
6-1-2             130.01
6-1-7             130.02
6-1-13            130.03
6-1-14            130.04
6-1-18            130.05
6-1-19            130.06
6-1-20            130.07
6-1-21            130.08
6-1-22            130.09
6-1-23            130.10
6-1-24            130.11
6-1-25            130.12
6-1-26            130.13
6-2-1             90.01
6-2-2             90.02
6-2-3             90.03
6-2-4             90.04
6-2-5             90.05
6-2-6             90.06
6-2-7             90.07
6-2-8             90.08
6-2-9             90.09
6-2-10            90.10
6-2-11            90.11
6-2-12            90.12
6-2-13            90.13
6-3-1             133.01
6-3-2             133.02
6-4-1             91.01
6-4-2             91.02
6-4-3             91.03
6-4-4             91.04
6-4-5             91.05
6-4-6             91.06
6-4-7             91.07
6-4-8             91.08
6-4-9             91.09
6-4-10            91.99
6-5-1             92.01
6-5-2             92.99
6-6-1             131.01—
                  131.06
6-6-3             131.99
7-1-6             93.01
7-2-2             92.15
7-2-3             92.16
7-3A-1            51.002
                  51.090—
7-3B-1            51.104,
                  51.106,
                  51.107
                  51.120,
7-3A-2            51.022—
                  51.026
7-3B-2            51.120—
                  51.126
7-3A-3            51.040—
                  51.052
7-3B-3            51.127
7-3A-4            51.070—
                  51.079
7-3B-4            51.128
7-3A-5            51.003
7-3A-7            51.999
7-4-1             50.40
7-4-2             50.41
7-4-3             50.42
7-4-4             50.43
7-4-5             50.44
7-4-6             50.45
7-4-7             50.46
7-4-11            50.99
8-1-1             150.20
8-1-2             150.21
8-1-3             150.22
8-1-4             150.23
8-1-5             150.24
8-1-6             150.25
8-2-1             150.40
8-2-2             150.41
8-2-3             150.42
8-3-1             50.02
8-3-2             50.04
8-3-4             50.05
8-3-5             50.64
8-3-6             50.63
8-3-7             50.06
8-3-8             50.07
8-3-9             50.08
9-1-1             70.01
9-2-2             Ch. 73 Sch. I
9-2-3             Ch. 73 Sch. II
9-3-1             Ch. 72 Sch. I
9-3-2             Ch. 72 Sch. II
9-3-3             Ch. 72 Sch. III
9-4-1             71.20
9-4-2             71.21—
                  71.25
9-4-3             71.99
9-5-1             70.15
9-5-2             70.16
9-5-3             70.17
9-5-4             70.18
9-5-5             70.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.   Date Passed Code Section
96-5       7-8-1996    TSO II
R-97-1     3-10-1997   TSO III
R-97-2     3-10-1997   TSO III
R-97-3     3-10-1997   33.03
R-97-6     3-10-1997   31.01
99-2       7-12-1999   TSO II
99-11      10-11-1999  31.02
R-01-1     2-12-2001   TSO III
R-02-02    5-13-2002   TSO III
R-03-04(B) 7-14-2003   TSO III
R-04-02    4-12-2004   30.05
R-04-03    4-12-2004   TSO III
R-04-06    12-13-2004  32.13
R-05-05    8-8-2005    TSO III
R-05-06    8-8-2005    TSO III
R-05-07    11-16-2005  TSO III
R-06-01    3-13-2006   TSO IV
R-07-04    6-11-2007   TSO III
R-11-04    10-10-2011  TSO III
R-12-02    5-14-2012   33.02
R-13-01    1-14-2013   33.02
15-4       5-11-2015   TSO II
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        - -         50.04
                     30.01—
                     30.04,
                     30.07,
                     30.20—
2        - -         30.26,
                     30.41,
                     30.46,
                     30.65,
                     32.25
                     70.01,
                     93.01,
                     130.01,
                     130.02,
4        - -         130.05,
                     130.06,
                     130.08,
                     130.09,
                     130.11—
                     130.13
                     110.01—
                     110.07,
                     112.01—
5        - -         112.04,
                     112.15—
                     112.17,
                     113.01,
                     113.02
7        - -         10.99
7-11-66  - -         Ch. 72 Sch. I
10       - -         150.40—
                     150.42
11       - -         150.20—
                     150.25
                     50.04,
15       - -         50.06—
                     50.08
17       - -         30.06
69       1954        Ch. 73 Sch. II
1        5-10-1965   Ch. 73 Sch. II
3        5-10-1965   130.10
66-67-1  1966        130.07
                     152.004,
                     152.008,
                     152.009,
                     152.033,
-        9-12-1966   152.045—
                     152.050,
                     152.067—
                     152.071,
                     152.999
69-2     8-11-1969   110.36
69-3     8-11-1969   110.35
69-4     9-8-1969    32.28
2-70     5-11-1970   Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II
71-1 A   4-21-1971   Ch. 73 Sch. II
71-2     6-14-1971   150.03,
                     150.08
71-3     12-3-1971   32.25
72-3     6-12-1972   Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II
74-1     1-14-1974   90.08—
                     90.13
                     32.01—
75-2     6-9-1975    32.06,
                     32.11
75-3     8-11-1975   Ch. 73 Sch. II
75-4     8-11-1975   150.04
75-8     11-10-1975  30.27
78-2     4-10-1978   Ch. 72 Sch. I
78-3     7-10-1978   92.99
79-1     12-10-1979  71.99
-        8-12-1980   Ch. 73 Sch. II
                     114.09—
81-9-1   8-10-1981   114.13,
                     114.99
                     115.33—
81-9-2   8-10-1981   115.35,
                     115.99
81-9-3   8-10-1981   131.99
-        12-20-1982  115.05
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I,
83-1     6-13-1983   Ch. 72 Sch. II,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. III
-        6-11-1984   50.05
-        4-8-1985    Ch. 72 Sch. III
-        1-12-1987   115.05
87-1     2-9-1987    Ch. 72 Sch. I
87-2     4-13-1987   50.99
-        9-14-1987   Ch. 73 Sch. II
-        7-11-1988   115.99
-        11-14-1988  Ch. 73 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73 Sch. II
-        2-13-1989   115.36
                     91.02—
-        3-13-1989   91.09,
                     91.99
-        5-8-1989    92.01,
                     130.03
-        8-14-1989   152.068
-        4-9-1990    70.99
-        2-11-1991   152.049,
                     152.999
-        2-10-1992   91.03
-        2-10-1992   152.048
-        5-11-1992   TSO III
-        1-11-1993   30.01
94-100   5-9-1994    TSO III
94-      11-14-1994  TSO III
95-11    7-25-1995   33.04
1995-3   8-8-1995    TSO III
-        11-13-1995  TSO III
96-01    1-8-1996    TSO III
96-4     6-10-1996   TSO II
1996-6   6-10-1996   115.05
                     51.001—
                     51.004,
                     51.020—
                     51.026,
                     51.040—
                     51.052,
                     51.070—
                     51.079,
96-3     6-17-1996   51.090—
                     51.102,
                     51.104,
                     51.106,
                     51.107,
                     51.120,
                     51.122—
                     51.128,
                     51.999
96-5     7-8-1996    33.04
96-8     8-26-1996   TSO III
96-9     9-9-1996    TSO II
96-10    11-11-1996  TSO II
96-11    12-9-1996   32.26
                     94.01—
97-2     5-12-1997   94.03,
                     94.99
                     111.01—
97-4     11-10-1997  111.07,
                     111.99
98-1     4-20-1998   TSO II
98-3     11-16-1998  130.10,
                     130.99
99-4     4-12-1999   TSO II
99-2     5-10-1999   TSO III
99-3     5-10-1999   TSO III
99-10    6-16-1999   TSO I
99-11    6-16-1999   TSO I
99-12    6-16-1999   TSO I
                     51.053,
99-8     8-9-1999    51.054,
                     51.055
                     51.098–
99-13    8-9-1999    51.103,
                     51.105
00-1     1-10-2000   TSO I
00-2     1-10-2000   TSO I
00-3     1-10-2000   TSO I
00-4     1-10-2000   TSO I
00-6     1-10-2000   Ch. 72 Sch. III
2000-7   3-13-2000   TSO III
00-8     3-13-2000   51.044
00-9     4-10-2000   51.106
00-10    5-8-2000    115.05,
                     115.06
00-11    5-8-2000    Ch. 73 Sch. II
00-12    5-8-2000    130.14,
                     130.99
00-13    5-8-2000    Ch. 72 Sch. III
00-14    6-12-2000   51.107
00-15    8-14-2000   TSO I
00-16    8-14-2000   Ch. 72 Sch. III
01-01    2-12-2001   115.05,
                     115.06
01-02    4-9-2001    TSO I
01-03    5-14-2001   51.107
01-05    9-10-2001   TSO III
01-06    10-12-2001  TSO III
02-01    5-13-2002   50.01
03-01    11-10-2003  TSO III
04-01    2-9-2004    TSO II
                     133.01,
04-03    4-12-2004   133.02,
                     133.99
04-06    7-12-2004   30.47
04-08    12-13-2004  TSO III
05-01    4-11-2005   TSO II
05-03    4-11-2005   TSO II
05-04    6-13-2005   TSO III
05-06    7-11-2005   Ch. 72 Sch. I
05-07    8-8-2005    115.05
05-08    8-8-2005    TSO II
05-09    8-8-2005    133.99
                     50.02,
                     50.03,
                     50.25—
                     50.29,
05-10    9-12-2005   50.40,
                     50.42-
                     50.46,
                     50.60—
                     50.64,
                     50.99
05-11    11-16-2005  Ch. 72 Sch. V
06-02    1-9-2006    TSO II
06-03    2-13-2006   TSO III
06-04    2-13-2006   TSO III
06-05    2-13-2006   TSO III
06-06    2-13-2006   TSO III
06-07    3-13-2006   115.05
06-10    9-11-2006   TSO II
06-11    10-9-2006   50.63
06-12    11-13-2006  30.20
06-13    11-13-2006  TSO II
07-01    2-12-2007   TSO III
                     110.20—
07-04    8-13-2007   110.24,
                     110.99
08-01    3-10-2008   115.29
                     91.10–
08-02    7-10-2008   91.15,
                     91.99
                     150.04,
08-03    7-10-2008   150.09,
                     150.99
08-04    9-8-2008    50.63
09-01    4-28-2009   TSO III
09-02    10-12-2009  TSO III
                     151.001—
                     151.004,
                     151.020—
                     151.034,
10-01    7-12-2010   151.045—
                     151.050,
                     151.065—
                     151.070,
                     151.999
10-02    9-13-2010   132.01—
                     132.08
                     134.01—
11-01    6-13-2011   134.04,
                     134.99
                     92.17—
                     92.26,
11-02    6-13-2011   92.40—
                     92.42,
                     92.99
11-03    7-11-2011   Ch. 72 Sch. II
11-04    11-14-2011  TSO III
12-03    6-11-2012   32.27
12-04    8-13-2012   130.04
13-1     2-11-2013   TSO II
13-02    6-10-2013   51.105
13-04    7-15-2013   33.01
13-05    8-12-2013   TSO I
14-01    3-10-2014   TSO II
14-01    8-14-2014   Ch. 72 Sch. III
                     92.55—
14-02    11-10-2014  92.60,
                     92.99
15-01    1-12-2015   50.28
                     71.01—
15-02    6-8-2015    71.07,
                     71.99
15-03    11-9-2015   32.27
15-06    12-14-2015  Ch. 72 Sch. IV
15-07    12-14-2015  Ch. 72 Sch. III
16-01    3-14-2016   TSO III
16-05    7-11-2016   TSO II
                     31.15—
16-02    8-8-2016    31.20,
                     31.99
16-04    8-8-2016    113.01—
                     113.12
                     133.01—
16-06    9-2-2016    133.04,
                     133.99
                    
 
