CITY OF WATERLOO, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-12 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1907, passed 5-5-2025; and
State legislation current through Illinois Legislative Service, 2024 Acts,
Pamphlet No. 5
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1: ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Division I: Title
   
1-1-1   Title
   
1-1-2   Acceptance
   
1-1-3   Amendments
   
1-1-4   Code alteration
   
1-1-5   Jurisdiction
   
1-1-6   (Reserved)
   
1-1-7   Adoption of State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
Division II: Saving Clause
   
1-1-8   Repeal of general ordinances
   
1-1-9   Public utility ordinances
   
1-1-10   Court proceedings
   
1-1-11   Severability of provisions
   
1-1-12   City Clerk's certificate
   
1-1-13   (Reserved)
Division III: Definitions
   
1-1-14   Construction of words
   
1-1-15   Definitions
   
1-1-16   Catchlines
   1-1-17 - 1-1-18   (Reserved)
Division IV: General Penalty
   
1-1-19   Penalty
   
1-1-20   Application
   
1-1-21   Liability of officers
DIVISION I: TITLE
§ 1-1-1 TITLE.
   Upon the adoption by the City Council, this “Revised Code of Ordinances” is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official City Code.
The “Revised Code of Ordinances” shall be known and cited as the “City Code,”
and it is hereby published by authority of the City Council and shall be kept
up-to-date as provided in §
1-1-3 under the direction of the City Attorney, acting for said City Council.
Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be understood
to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter and
article heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as
to the section itself when reference is made to this City Code by title in any
legal document.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-1)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3
§ 1-1-2 ACCEPTANCE.
   The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent
effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
1-1-8.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-6
§ 1-1-3 AMENDMENTS. 
   Any ordinance amending this city code shall set forth the article, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be semi-annually forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code on a semi-annual basis.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 1-1-4 CODE ALTERATION. 
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner
that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement
pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized
by the City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his custody an official copy of the city code
shall make every effort to maintain said code in an up-to-date and efficient
manner. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of
the City Clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed to do so by order of
the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 1-1-5 JURISDICTION. 
   Unless otherwise provided herein, this code applies to acts performed within
the corporate limits of the city. Provisions of this code also apply to acts
performed outside the corporate limits and up to the limits prescribed by law,
where the law confers power on the city to regulate such particular acts
outside the corporate limits.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-5)
§ 1-1-6 (RESERVED)
§ 1-1-7 ADOPTION OF STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 5-15 and §§ 10-10 through
10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, §§
1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are hereby
adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the
city to the extent required by ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
an officer or employee of the city is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 50-5 for similar violations
of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of the city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of ILCS Ch. 5, Act 430, § 70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act,
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city.
(Ord. 1294, passed 5-3-2004)
DIVISION II: SAVING CLAUSE
§ 1-1-8 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of
this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as
being still in force or are, by necessary implication, herein reserved from
repeal, subject to the saving clauses contained in the following section, from
which are excluded the following ordinances which are hereby not repealed: Tax
levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries
and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special
rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-8)
§ 1-1-9 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code
or by virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this city code shall be
considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such
provisions only.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-9)
§ 1-1-10 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this city code.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-10)
§ 1-1-11 SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS. 
   Each. section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
severable, and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-11)
§ 1-1-12 CITY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE.
   The City Clerk's Certificate shall be in the following form:
CITY CLERK'S CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS     )
COUNTY OF MONROE    ) ss.    CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
CITY OF WATERLOO     )
I,                                             , City Clerk of the City of
Waterloo, Illinois do hereby certify that the following Revised Ordinances of
the City of Waterloo, Illinois, published by authority of the City Council of
the City of Waterloo, were duly passed and adopted by the City Council of the
City of Waterloo, Illinois, approved by the Mayor and published in book form
according to law on this date, and that these ordinances are true and perfect
copies of the ordinances as passed, approved and now of record and on file in
my office, as provided by law.
In witness whereof, I have set my hand and affixed the corporate seal of the
City of Waterloo, this                  day of                         ,
         .
                     /s/
                                                                           
                     CITY CLERK
                     CITY OF WATERLOO, ILLINOIS
(SEAL)
(1993 Code, § 1-1-12)
§ 1-1-13 (RESERVED)
DIVISION III: DEFINITIONS
§ 1-1-14 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code
by words importing the singular number only or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included, provided that these rules of construction shall
not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction, or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto. The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary; the
word “may” is permissive.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-14)
§ 1-1-15 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   CITY. The City of Waterloo, Illinois.
   CODE or THIS CODE. The Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of Waterloo.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of this city.
   COUNTY. The County of Monroe.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
city.”
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The “fiscal year” for the city shall begin on May 1 of each
year and end on April 30 of the following year.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-11)
   KNOWINGLY. Imports a knowledge that the facts exist which bring the act or
omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge
of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT and NEGLIGENTLY. These terms import a want of
such attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act of omission as
a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city or any act or thing repugnant to or creating a hazard
to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
   OCCUPANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a city
officer or employee by title only, this shall be construed as though followed
by the words “of the city” and shall be taken to mean the officer or employee
of this City having the title mentioned or performing the duties indicated. No
provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee shall
be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine or
penalty provided in this code for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such a fine or penalty on such officer
or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty.
   OFFICIAL MEETING. This includes regular meetings, special meetings and any
other official meeting at which all members of the City Council are expected to
be present in order to discuss city business.
   OFFICIAL TIME. Central Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of city business, except during applicable Daylight Savings Time
set by national or state standards when the official time shall be advanced one
hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings or other
premises maintained by or at the expense of the city shall be set and run at
the official time prescribed by this definition.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner,
joint-owner, tenant-in- common, joint-tenant or lessee of the whole or of a
part of such building or land.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation in his or its own capacity as administrator, conservator, executor,
trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the court. Whenever the
word “person” is used in any section of this code prescribing a penalty or fine
as applied to partnerships ,or any such word as applied to corporations, it
shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violation of said section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall mean and include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER. As used in this code unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in small quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE or THIS STATE The State of Illinois, unless otherwise indicated.
   STREET. Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares,
public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. As used in this code and unless otherwise
specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate the law or to injure
another or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. May include printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is
required by law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it
shall be in the proper handwriting of such person or, in case he or she is
unable to write, by his or her proper mark.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-15) (Ord. 763, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 1-1-16 CATCHLINES.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such
sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(1993 Code, § 1-1-16)
§§ 1-1-17 - 1-1-18 (RESERVED)
DIVISION IV: GENERAL PENALTY
§ 1-1-19 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall
be fined not less than $100 nor more than $750 for any one offense, and may
also be punished as otherwise provided by state statutes for violation of
municipal ordinances.
   (B)   Any minor, or person designated a juvenile by this state, convicted of
a violation of any section of this code shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $750 for any one offense, and may also be punished as otherwise
provided by state statute for violation of municipal ordinances, but such a
person may not be confined except in accordance with the provisions of the
Juvenile Court Act of 1987 of the State of Illinois.
   (C)   Whoever commits an offense against the city or aids, abets, counsels,
commands, induces or procures its commission is punishable as a principal.
   (D)   Whoever willfully causes an act to be done which, if directly
performed by him or another, would be an offense against the city, is
punishable as a principal.
(Ord. 1161, passed 11-20-2000; Am. Ord. 1379, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 1-1-20 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this city code, the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Further, the penalty provided in this chapter shall be
controlling, notwithstanding any other penalty provision relating to the
violation of any section of this code to the contrary, unless a greater penalty
is provided elsewhere in this code for a violation of a section of this code,
and in such event, such greater penalty shall apply to such violation. Any
person convicted of a violation of any section of this city code, where any
duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or where any act of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of an ordinance
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty
or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues.
   (B)   All actions brought to enforce any fine, imprisonment, penalty, or
forfeiture under any ordinance of the city shall be brought in the name of the
city as plaintiff. In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by different clauses or sections of this city code, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which provision or provisions to proceed. No
prosecution, recovery, conviction, or acquittal, for the violation of any
ordinance, shall constitute a defense to any other prosecution of the same
party for any other violation of the same or any other ordinance, although the
different causes of action existed at the same time, and, if united, would not
have exceeded the jurisdiction of the court.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this city code, and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 1161, passed 11-20-2000; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 1-1-21 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty imposed
by this code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed
for violation of this code, unless a penalty is specifically provided for.
(Ord. 1161, passed 11-20-2000)
ARTICLE II: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
Division I: City Council
   
1-2-1   City Council
   
1-2-2   Regular meetings
   
1-2-3   Special meetings
   
1-2-4   Vacancy
   
1-2-5   Committees
   
1-2-6   Special Committees
   
1-2-7   Representatives
   
1-2-8   Quorum
   
1-2-9   Notice of absence
   
1-2-10   Members refusing to attend
   
1-2-11   (Reserved)
Division II: Rules of the City Council
   
1-2-12   Rules of the Council
   
1-2-13   Agenda
   1-2-14 - 1-2-15   (Reserved)
Division III: Ordinances
   
1-2-16   Ordinances
   
1-2-17   Reconsideration; passing over veto
   
1-2-18   No vote to be reconsidered at Special Meetings
   1-2-19 - 1-2-20   (Reserved)
Division IV: General Regulations
   
1-2-21   The Seal
   
1-2-22   Elections
   
1-2-23   Appointment of elected officials
   
1-2-24   Municipal officers; regulations
   
1-2-25   Residency
   
1-2-26   Bonds of city officers
   
1-2-27   City offices consolidated
   
1-2-28   Liability insurance
   
1-2-29   Binding and contract procedures
   
1-2-30   Interest in contracts prohibited
   
1-2-31   (Reserved)
   
1-2-32   Claims
   
1-2-33   Municipal year
   
1-2-34   Expenses; reimbursement
   
1-2-35   Official records
   
1-2-36   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
   
1-2-37   Federal Old Age and Survivor's Insurance System
   1-2-38 - 1-2-40   (Reserved)
Division V: Mayor
   
1-2-41   Election
   
1-2-42   Mayor pro-tem
   
1-2-43   Vacancy
   
1-2-44   Chief Executive Officer
   
1-2-45   Mayor's signature
   
1-2-46   Appointment of officers
   
1-2-47   Supervision of conduct of officials; removal
   
1-2-48   Designation of officers' duties
   
1-2-49   Formal occasions
   
1-2-50   General duties
   
1-2-51   Business License Commissioner
   
1-2-52   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
1-2-53   Health Commissioner
   
1-2-54   Deciding vote; Mayor
   1-2-55 - 1-2-56   (Reserved)
Division VI: City Clerk
   
1-2-57   Election and term
   
1-2-58   Oath and bond
   
1-2-59   Salary
   
1-2-60   Vacancy
   
1-2-61   General duties
   
1-2-62   Recordation of ordinances
   
1-2-63   Publication of ordinances
   
1-2-64   Issue notices
   
1-2-65   Delivery of papers to officers
   
1-2-66   Preparation of documents; commissions; licenses
   
1-2-67   Report of licenses
   
1-2-68   Delivery of licenses
   
1-2-69   Administration of oaths
   
1-2-70   Record of bonds issued
   
1-2-71   Reports
   
1-2-72   Successor
   
1-2-73   Payroll
   
1-2-74   Audit accounts
   
1-2-75   Warrants
   
1-2-76   Filing of regulations and public records
   
1-2-77   Notification of persons appointed to office
   
1-2-78   Appointment of subordinates
   
1-2-79   Appointment of Clerk pro-tem
   
1-2-79-1   Examination of collector's warrants, books and the like, and
issuance of receipt
   
1-2-79-2   Supervision of other officers
   
1-2-79-3   Deputy Clerk
   
1-2-79-4   Other duties
Division VII: City Treasurer
   
1-2-80   Established
   
1-2-81   Finance Committee
   
1-2-82   Election and vacancy
   
1-2-83   Money; warrants; accounts
   
1-2-84   Warrant register
   
1-2-85   Separation of funds
   
1-2-86   Bond
   
1-2-87   Special funds
   
1-2-88   Bookkeeping
   
1-2-89   Statements
   
1-2-90   Report of delinquent officers
   
1-2-91   Year-end report
   
1-2-92   Deposit of funds
   1-2-93 - 1-2-95   (Reserved)
Division VIII: Judiciary
   
1-2-96   Appointment of Attorney
   
1-2-97   Duties
   
1-2-98   Assistant City Attorneys
   1-2-99 - 1-2-104   (Reserved)
Division IX: City Engineer
   
1-2-105   Appointment; designated Code Enforcement Officer and Building
Commissioner
   
1-2-106   Duties; salary
   1-2-107 - 1-2-109   (Reserved)
Division X: Director of Public Works
   
1-2-110   Position established
   
1-2-111   Appointment
   
1-2-112   Minimum qualifications
   
1-2-113   Duties
   
1-2-114   Contracts
   
1-2-115   Absence
   
1-2-116   Other duties and responsibilities
   
1-2-117   Severability
   1-2-118 - 1-2-119   (Reserved)
Division XI: Deputy Director of Public Works
   
1-2-120   Position established
   
1-2-121   Appointment
   
1-2-122   Term of appointment
   
1-2-123   Minimum qualifications
   
1-2-124   Duties
   
1-2-125   Contracts
   
1-2-126   Committee Chair
   
1-2-127   Other duties and responsibilities
   
1-2-128   Severability
   1-2-129   (Reserved)
Division XII: City Collector
   
1-2-130   Office created; appointment
   
1-2-131   Term of office
   
1-2-132   Oath and bond required
   
1-2-133   Salary
   
1-2-134   Duties
   
1-2-135   Examination of records
   
1-2-136   Appointment of subordinates
   
1-2-137   Possession of money and penalty for violation
   
1-2-138   Reports with respect to duties and activities
   
1-2-139   Incorporation of statutes
Division XIII: Budget Officer
   
1-2-140   Office created; appointment
   
1-2-141   Term of office
   
1-2-142   Oath and bond required
   
1-2-143   Salary
   
1-2-144   Powers and duties
   
1-2-145   Compilation and content of budget
   
1-2-146   Passage of annual budget
   
1-2-147   Revision of annual budget
   
1-2-148   Public inspection; notice and hearing on budget
   
1-2-149   Appointment of subordinates
   
1-2-150   Reports with respect to duties and activities
   
1-2-151   Holding other office
   
1-2-152   Incorporation of statutes
Division XIV:  Community Relations Coordinator
   
1-2-160   Office created; appointment
   
1-2-161   Term of office
   
1-2-162   Salary
   
1-2-163   Duties
Division XV: Human Resource Coordinator
   
1-2-170   Office created; appointment
   
1-2-171   Term of office
   
1-2-172   Salary
   
1-2-173   Duties
DIVISION I: CITY COUNCIL
§ 1-2-1 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and eight Aldermen. There shall
be two Aldermen from each of four wards, and their term of office shall be for
four years, and until their successors are elected and have qualified. One
Alderman from each ward shall be elected every two years.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-1) (Ord. 800, passed 8-7-1989; Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-
2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-10; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 3.1-20-22
§ 1-2-2 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular stated meetings of the City Council shall be held in the
City Hall building on the first and third Monday in each month at 7:30 p.m.
When said meeting date falls upon Christmas Eve or a legal holiday as
hereinafter defined, or the observance of said legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held on the next secular day at the same hour. Adjourned meetings may be
held at such times as may be determined by the Council. Public notice of
regular meetings shall be given in accordance with the Open Meetings Act, ILCS
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 through 6.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term LEGAL HOLIDAY shall be those
holidays set forth in ILCS Ch. 205, Act 630, § 17(a), with the exception of
Casimir Pulaski's Birthday, Abraham Lincoln's Birthday, and Martin Luther King,
Jr.'s Birthday.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-2) (Am. Ord. 892, passed 8-16-1993; Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-
21-2001; Am. Ord. 1208, passed 11-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1300, passed 6-7-2004; Am.
Ord. 1701, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 1-2-3 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any three
Aldermen, by giving at least 48 hours notice thereof, by delivering to City
Council Members personally, written or printed notices of the time of such
meeting at the residences of the Mayor and/or Aldermen; such notices shall be
served by the Chief of Police, or his or her designated representative or any
other adult person. If the City Council Member is not present at his or her
residence, leaving of such notices with a member of his or her family 13 years
or older shall be sufficient service of notice upon the City Council Member. If
no one is present at the residence of the City Council Member, leaving of such
notice upon the door of the residence of the City Council Member shall be
deemed sufficient service of notice upon the City Council Member. Said notices
shall specify the purpose of said special meeting and the business to be taken
up at that time and place. Such notice shall be posted at the City Hall and
shall be provided to any news media that has filed an annual request for such
notice. The notice shall be provided to such news media in the same manner as
the notice is given to the Mayor and other members of the City Council,
provided such news media has given the city an address or telephone number
within the city at which such notice may be given.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-3) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-40-25
§ 1-2-4 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Alderman and there remains an unexpired
portion of the term of at least 28 months, and the vacancy occurs at least 130
days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the general
election law, the vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at that
general municipal election. Until the vacancy in the office of Alderman is
filled by election, the Mayor shall appoint a qualified person to the office of
Alderman, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council. A person
appointed to the office of Alderman shall hold office until his or her
successor is elected, or appointed if required, and has qualified. An
appointment to fill a vacancy in the office of Alderman shall be made within 60
days after the vacancy occurs.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-4) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50
§ 1-2-5 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees of the City Council are hereby
established, to-wit:
      (1)   Electric system
      (2)   Finance
      (3)   Streets
      (4)   Health
      (5)   Water and Sewer Systems
      (6)   Fire Department
      (7)   Gas Department
      (8)   Park
      (9)   Planning
      (10)   Utility Service Disconnections
      (11)   Economic Development
      (12)   Insurance
      (13)   Police
      (14)   Building/Office
      (15)   Ordinance
      (16)   Labor Relations
   (B)   The committees shall be appointed annually by the Mayor.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex officio member of each and every standing
committee.
   (D)   So far as practicable, the reports of committees shall be in writing.
   (E)   Upon the request of any two Aldermen present, any report of a
committee of the City Council shall be deferred for final action to the next
regular meeting of the City Council after the report is made.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-35)
   (F)   Each standing committee of the City Council shall monitor and review
the activities within the scope of the committee purpose and shall, from time
to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof may be had and shall make recommendations to the Mayor
and City Council with respect to funding, policy and legislation relating to
the activity for which the committee is established.
   (G)   All committee meetings are subject to the Open Meetings Act
requirements and minutes shall be taken.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-5) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 1.02; ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, §
2.06 et seq.
§ 1-2-6 SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   Special committees may be appointed by the Mayor, as may be needed from time
to time, subject to the advice and consent of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-6) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
§ 1-2-7 REPRESENTATIVES.
   There is hereby created the following representative positions:
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint a Library Representative, who shall serve as
the City Council s liaison to the City Library Board who shall monitor and
review the activities of the Library Board and the operation of the City
Library and shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City
Council so that a full understanding thereof may be had, and shall make
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council with respect to funding, policy
and legislation relating to the existence and operation of the City Library to
the extent that the City Council may have jurisdiction relative thereto.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint a Sister Cities Representative, who shall
serve as the City Council's liaison to the Waterloo Sister Cities organization,
who shall monitor and review the activities of the Sister Cities organization
and the operation of the Sister Cities organization and shall, from time to
time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof may be had, and shall make recommendations to the Mayor
and City Council with respect to funding, policy and legislation relating to
the existence and operation of the Sister Cities program within the City of
Waterloo.
(Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5
§ 1-2-8 QUORUM.
   At all meetings of the City Council, a majority of the corporate authorities
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A smaller number,
however, may adjourn from time to time and may compel the attendance of
absentees under penalties (including a fine for failure to attend) prescribed
by the City Council by ordinance.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-20) (1993 Code, § 1-2-7) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed
5-21-2001)
§ 1-2-9 NOTICE OF ABSENCE.
   Any member of the City Council who shall be unable to attend a meeting of
the City Council shall notify the Mayor or City Clerk in advance and as soon as
possible after such member becomes aware of his or her unavailability to attend
such meeting.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-15) (Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
§ 1-2-10 MEMBERS REFUSING TO ATTEND.
   Any member of the City Council who shall neglect or refuse to attend any
meeting of the City Council without good and sufficient excuse to be passed
upon by the City Council shall be fined the sum of $50 for failure to attend
such meeting. No member shall receive compensation for failure to attend such
meeting under the provisions of §
1-3-1 of the City Code.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-8) (Am. Ord. 1188, passed 5-21-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-20
§ 1-2-11 (RESERVED)
DIVISION II: RULES OF THE CITY COUNCIL
§ 1-2-12 RULES OF THE COUNCIL. 
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
   (A)   Order of business.
      (1)   The order of business shall be as follows:
         (a)   Call to order by presiding officer.
         (b)   Roll call.
         (c)   Pledge of Allegiance.
         (d)   Correction or withdrawal of agenda items by sponsors.
         (e)   The reading of the journal of the proceedings of the last
preceding meeting or meetings, and correction and approval of the same, unless
dispensed with by the Aldermen, and correction of the journal of the
proceedings of previous meetings.
         (f)   Petitions by citizens on non-agenda items.
         (g)   Reports and communications from the Mayor and other City
Officers.
         (h)   Reports of Standing Committees.
         (i)   Reports of Special Committees.
         (j)   Presentation of communications, petitions, resolutions, orders,
and ordinances by Council Members.
         (k)   Unfinished business.
         (l)   Miscellaneous business.
         (m)   Discussion of matters by Council members arising after agenda
deadline.
         (n)   Adjournment.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the chair without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)    Duties of Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer shall preserve
order and decorum and may speak to points of order in preference to other
Aldermen, and shall decide all question of order, subject to appeal. In case of
any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the Presiding Officer shall have the
power to require that the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members. While the presiding officer is putting the
question, no member shall walk across or out of the Council Chamber. Every
member, previous to speaking, making a motion or seconding the same, shall not
proceed with his remarks until recognized and named by the Chair. He shall
confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding personalities and
refraining from impugning the motives of any other Aldermen's argument or vote.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Council shall address
that body on the same question unless such person has been recognized by the
Presiding Officer.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When an Alderman wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he shall send it to the desk of the Clerk, who shall read such matter when
reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No Alderman shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by consent of the Presiding Officer or unless three-fourths of the corporate
authorities agree that one's right to debate should be limited to speak only
once and then not until every other Alderman desiring to speak shall have had
an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that the proponent of the matter
under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open and close
debate.
      (2)   No Alderman shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one time
except by consent of the Council; and in closing debate on any question as
above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes, except by special
consent of the Council.
      (3)   The City Council, by motion, may limit debate. The Presiding
Officer shall have the right to participate in debate. While a member is
speaking, no Alderman shall hold any private discussion nor pass between the
speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of Aldermen to order. An Alderman, when called to order by the
Chair, shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his seat, and the order or
ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right
to appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decision of the Chair.  
      (1)   Any Alderman may appeal to the Council from a ruling of the Chair
and, if the appeal is seconded, the Alderman making the appeal may briefly
state his reason for the same and the Chair may briefly explain his ruling; but
there shall be no debate on the appeal and no other person shall participate in
the discussion. The Presiding Officer shall have the right to participate in
debate.
      (2)   The Chair shall then put the question: “Shall the decision of the
Chair be sustained?”. If a majority of the Aldermen present vote “No”, the
decision of the Chair shall be overruled; otherwise it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Aldermen, by a majority vote of the Aldermen
present, may divide such question.
   (J)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the Aldermen moving the same shall be
entered also.
   (K)   Announcement and changes of votes. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him to the
Chairman for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally list
has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (L)   Precedence of motions.  
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain.
         (b)   To adjourn.
         (c)   To take a recess.
         (d)   To lay on the table.
         (e)   The previous question.
         (f)   To refer.
         (g)   To amend.
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain.
         (i)   To defer or postpone, without reference to time.
         (j)   To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (L)(1)(b), (d), and (e) to be decided without debate.
   (M)   Motions to adjourn. 
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the City Council shall always be in order,
except:
         (a)   When an Alderman is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall not be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The City Council may, at any time, adjourn over one or more regular
meetings on a vote of a majority of all the Aldermen authorized by law to be
elected.
   (N)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question and seconded, it shall be put in this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendments and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay upon
the pending amendment in proper order and then upon the main question.
   (O)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion to lay the question on the table shall not be debatable,
but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other condition,
shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table, provided two-thirds of the Aldermen vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table, and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (P)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone without any reference to time shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (Q)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (R)   Motion to amend. 
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “Strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending questions may be
referred to a committee, and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (S)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (T)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment or such proposition may be entertained,
notwithstanding that at such time, further amendment is admissible; and if
accepted by the Aldermen by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment as the case may be and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (U)   Reconsideration.  
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by Aldermen who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (V)   Adoption of Robert's Rules of Order Revised. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert's
Rules of Order Revised shall govern the Council in all cases to which they are
applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of the
Council.
   (W)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate authorities
entitled by law to be elected and shall not be repealed, altered or amended
unless by concurrence of two-thirds of all the corporate authorities entitled
by law to be elected.
   (X)   Censure of Aldermen; expulsion of Aldermen. Any Alderman acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner or who uses opprobrious, obscene and
insulting language to or about any member of the Council, or who does not obey
the order of the Chair shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all Aldermen elected.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-12) (Am. Ord. 1111, passed 9-20-1999)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-11
§ 1-2-13 AGENDA.
   An itemized agenda, along with all necessary supporting documentation, shall
be furnished to each member of the Council no later than the close of business
on the Friday preceding the regular Council meeting. In the case of emergency
matters which could not have been reasonably foreseen in sufficient time to
comply with this section, a revised agenda will be furnished to each member of
the Council prior to the opening of the Council meeting.
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02
Editor's note on voting:
   An Alderman is not required to vote on a motion, resolution or ordinance.
His failure to vote, however, will not invalidate a resolution or motion which
does not require the affirmative vote of a particular percentage of the
corporate authorities where the majority of those exercising their franchise
are in favor of the motion or resolution.
   In dealing with an ordinance involving liability, expenditure or
appropriation wherein an affirmative vote of a majority of the corporate
authorities holding office is required, the philosophy is this: “If a member of
a public body is present at a meeting, he is obliged to vote, except if he has
an interest in the matter that is before the public body, and if he does not
vote, his failure to do so must be construed as concurring with the majority.
The non-vote will be counted in the column of the majority of those voting.
§§ 1-2-14 - 1-2-15 (RESERVED)
DIVISION III: ORDINANCES
§ 1-2-16 ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Attorney. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prepare such
ordinances as may be required by the City Council.
   (B)   Vote required; yeas and nays; record. The passage of all ordinances
for whatever purpose, and of any resolution or motion (1) to create any
liability against a city, or (2) for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money, shall require the concurrence of a majority of all members then holding
office on the City Council, including the Mayor, unless otherwise expressly
provided by the code or any other act governing the passage of any ordinance,
resolution or motion; provided that where the Council consists of an odd number
of Aldermen, the vote of the majority of the Aldermen shall be sufficient to
pass an ordinance. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of the designated ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in
the journal of the City Council. In addition, the corporate authorities at any
meeting may by unanimous consent take a single vote by yeas or nays on the
several questions of the passage on any two or more of the designated
ordinances, orders, resolutions or motions placed together for voting purposes
in a single group, which single vote shall be entered separately in the journal
under the designation “omnibus vote” and in such event the Clerk may enter the
words “omnibus vote” in the journal in each case, in lieu of entering names of
the members of the City Council voting “yea” and of those voting “nay” on the
passage of each of the designated ordinances, orders, resolutions and motions
included in such omnibus group. The taking of such single or omnibus vote and
such entries of the words “omnibus vote” in the journal shall be a sufficient
compliance with the requirements of this section to all intents and purposes
and with like effect as if the vote in each case had been taken separately by
yeas and nays on the question of the passage of each ordinance, order,
resolution and motion included in such omnibus group and separately recorded in
the journal. Likewise, the yeas and any other resolution or motion at the
request of any Alderman and shall be recorded in the journal.
   (C)   Ordinances; approval; veto. All resolutions and motions (1) which
create any liability against a city, or (2) which provided for the expenditure
or appropriation of its money, or (3) to sell any city property, and all
ordinances passed by the City Council shall be deposited with the City Clerk.
If the Mayor approved of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he
disapproves he shall return to the City Council, with his written objections,
at the next regular meeting of the City Council occurring not less than five
days after their passage. The Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation,
and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the Mayor may disapprove
entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the
Mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with
his written objections within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of his signature.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-16)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-17; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-11-18
§ 1-2-17 RECONSIDERATION; PASSING OVER VETO.
   Every resolution and motion specified in §
1-2-16, and every ordinance which is returned to the City Council by the Mayor
shall be reconsidered by the City Council at the next regular meeting. If,
after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Aldermen then holding office
on the City Council shall agree at such regular meeting to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the Mayor's refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the Mayor's
veto shall be by yeas and nays and shall be recorded in the journal.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-17)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-19
§ 1-2-18 NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETINGS. 
   No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any
special meeting thereof unless at such special meeting there are present as
large a number of Aldermen as were present when such vote was taken.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-18)
§§ 1-2-19 - 1-2-20 (RESERVED)
DIVISION IV: GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 1-2-21 THE SEAL.
   (A)   The seal provided by the Council, consisting of a vignette,
representing an ear of corn in the interior circle with the inscription, “City
of Waterloo, Monroe County” around the outer edge of the seal, shall be and
hereby is established and declared to be the seal of the City of Waterloo,
Illinois.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the City and in all other cases in which by
law and custom it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal. The
seal shall be and remain with the City Clerk, who shall be the legal custodian.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-21)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 2-2-12; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-10-7
§ 1-2-22 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedure. The provisions of ILCS Chapter 235 concerning
municipal elections shall govern the conduct of the City elections.
   (B)   Inauguration. The terms of elected municipal officers of the city
shall commence at the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities during
the month of May following the general municipal election, at which meeting the
newly elected officers shall be sworn by the City Clerk and begin their duties.
   (C)   Terms. The terms for successors to those elected in 1991 shall be four
years and until their successors are elected and qualify.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-22) (Ord. 664, passed 4-7-1981; Am. Ord. 800, passed 8-7-
1989)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-2-2
§ 1-2-23 APPOINTMENT OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   No Alderman of this city, during the term of office for which he is
elected, may accept or be appointed to or hold any office appointed by the
Mayor, except if such Alderman is granted a leave of absence from such office.
However, such Alderman may serve as a volunteer fireman and receive
compensation for such service. Any appointment in violation of this section is
void.
   (B)   One member may serve on the Library Board.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-23)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-1; ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 2
§ 1-2-24 MUNICIPAL OFFICERS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Effect. The provisions of this section shall apply alike to all
officers and employees of the, city regardless of the time of the creation of
the office or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or
employee.
   (B)   Bond. Every officer and employee shall, if required by the City
Council upon entering upon the duties of his office, give a bond in such amount
and with such sureties as may be determined by the Council, conditioned upon
the faithful performance of the duties of his office or position.
   (C)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his successor all books, papers, furniture and other things
appertaining to such office and which are the property of the city. Within five
days after notification and request, any person who has been an officer of a
municipality is required to deliver to his successor in office all property,
books and effects in his possession belonging to the municipality or pertaining
to the office he has held. Upon his refusal to do so, he shall be liable for
all damages caused thereby, and shall, upon conviction, be penalized according
to the provisions of §
1-1-19. He shall not receive his final check until his City Code book and keys
are turned over to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his office to the inspection of the
Mayor or any committee or member of the Council.
   (E)   Fees; report of fees. No officer of the municipality shall be entitled
to charge or receive any fees as against the city. All officers of the city
entitled to receive fees shall keep a correct account thereof, and make a
report thereof under oath to the City Council prior to the regular meeting of
each month. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were
received, for what service and when received. All fees received shall be paid
over into the City Treasury.
   (F)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties and be subject to such other rules and regulations as the
Council may provide by law.
   (G)   Conservators of peace. The Mayor, Aldermen and policemen are
designated as conservators of the peace, with power to make arrests as provided
by law.
   (H)   Oath. Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, all
municipal officers, whether elected or appointed, shall take and subscribe to
the following oath:
I,                                                           
                        , do solemnly swear that I will support the
Constitution of the United States and the constitution of the State of
Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of
                      
                                            according to the best of my
ability.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-24)
Cross-reference:
   See Administration of oaths, §
1-2-69
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-9-4; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-14-2; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-14-3
§ 1-2-25 RESIDENCY. 
   No person shall be eligible to hold any municipal office unless he is a
qualified elector of the municipality and has resided therein at least one year
next preceding his election or appointment. However, these requirements shall
not apply to the municipal engineer, municipal attorney or other officers who
require technical training or knowledge. However, no person shall be eligible
to any municipal office who is in arrears in the payment of any tax or other
indebtedness due to the city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-25)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-14-1; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-4-15
§ 1-2-26 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount. Bonds of city officers required under ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-
14-3 shall be executed in the following penal sums:
      (1)   Mayor:         $ 3,000
      (2)   City Clerk:      $10,000
      (3)   City Treasurer:   $100,000 (Minimum)
   (B)   Premium payment by city. The surety bonds required by law shall be
paid by the city.
   (C)   Surety. The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or
security whereon the name of the City Council, any one of the Aldermen or any
elected or appointed officers of the city appear as bondsman or security. If,
by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is approved by the
City Council or if any bondsman after becoming such is elected or appointed to
any city office, this section shall not act as a release of any such obligation
incurred.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-26)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 5, Act 270, § 1
§ 1-2-27 CITY OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, by law, impose upon any
officer filling any office created by the ordinances of the city any such other
or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of this state, and may
consolidate any two or more of the offices and impose the duties thereof upon
any other officer and may make any such regulations respecting such offices as
shall be consistent with the laws of this state.
   (B)   In case the City Council consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he
would not have been entitled to receive if such consolidation had not taken
place.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-27)
§ 1-2-28 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Purchase of. The City Council shall have the power to purchase
liability insurance covering and insuring all municipal officers, employees and
elected officials, said insurance to cover incidents occurring while in the
performance of their duties, which insurance may insure, cover, and protect any
liability which the municipal corporation, officer, employee or elected
official may incur. When said insurance has been purchased, the city shall be
responsible for all premiums and deductible charges called for by any valid
liability insurance policy covering the municipal corporation, officer,
employee or elected official.
   (B)   Indemnification.
      (1)   Applicability. This section applies to the fullest extent permitted
by the Constitution of the state and applicable law to each of the following
officials and employees, if any, of the city:
         (a)   The Mayor;
         (b)   Each member of the City Council;
         (c)   The City Clerk and each Deputy or Acting City Clerk;
         (d)   The City Treasurer and each Deputy or Acting City Treasurer;
         (e)   The City Collector;
         (f)   The City Attorney and each Staff Attorney of the city;
         (g)   The Finance Director;
         (h)   The Director of Public Works;
         (i)   The Zoning Administrator;
         (j)   The Subdivision Administrator;
         (k)   The Building Official;
         (l)   The Chief of Police; and
         (m)   Each member of any board or commission of the city established
pursuant to applicable law or by ordinance of the city.
The above officers and employees shall be indemnified, defended and held
harmless by the city from and against all liabilities, attorney's fees, costs
of defense, expenses of investigation, judgments and amounts paid in settlement
which may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred or paid by such official or
employee in connection with or resulting from any claim made against him or
her, or any action, suit, proceeding or investigation in which he or she may be
involved, by reason of his being or having been such official or such employee
of the city, whether or not he continues to be such official or employee at the
time of such claim, action, suit, proceeding or investigation; provided,
however, that the city shall not indemnify any officer or employee for conduct
which is a willful or wanton violation of duty.
      (2)   Rights shall be additional. The rights of indemnification set forth
in this section shall be in addition to any other rights to which such official
or employee may otherwise be entitled as matter of law.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-28)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 745, Act 10, §§ 2-201 et seq.
§ 1-2-29 BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Competitive bidding. Any work or public improvement that is not to be
paid for, in whole or in part, by special assessment or special taxation, when
the expense thereof will exceed $25,000, shall be constructed by a contract let
to the lowest responsible bidder after due notice inviting bids, unless
competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds of the Aldermen then
holding office.
   (B)   Reserved.
   (C)   Notice inviting bids. Notice inviting bids shall be published at least
once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city.
   (D)   Scope of notice. The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured and the time and
place for opening bids.
   (E)   Bid deposits. When deemed necessary by the City Council, bid deposits
shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders
shall be entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the
contract by the City Council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the City Council upon failure on his part to enter into a contract
within ten days after the award.
   (F)   Bid opening procedure.
      (1)   Sealed. Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope.
      (2)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
      (3)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
City Council or by a city employee, in which event a tabulation of the bids
shall be furnished to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
   (G)   Rejection of bids. The city shall have the authority to reject all
bids or parts of all bids when the public interest will be served thereby.
   (H)   Bidders in default to city. The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other monies
due the city.
   (I)   Award of contract.  
      (1)   Authority in city. The City Council shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this section.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interest of the
city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the City
Council shall consider the following in determining who is a responsible
bidder:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required. All bidders must provide projects of
a similar nature as being performed in the immediate past five years, with the
name, address, and telephone number of the contact person having knowledge of
the project;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder. All bidders must provide three references (name,
address and telephone number) with knowledge of the integrity and business
practices of the contractor;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services
for the City of Waterloo and other customers;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service, and all applicable laws
prerequisite to doing business in Illinois, including notices of noncompliance;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid;
         (j)   Compliance with all provisions of the Illinois Prevailing Wage
Act, including wages, medical and hospitalization insurance, and retirement for
those trades as covered in the Act;
         (k)   Participation of the bidder and all of bidder's subcontractors
in active apprenticeship and training programs approved and registered with the
United States Department of Labor’s Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training for
each of the trades of work contemplated under the awarded contract;
         (l)   Evidence of compliance with:
            1.   Federal Employer Tax Number or Social Security Number (for
individuals);
            2.   Provisions of Section 2000(e) of Chapter 21, Title 42 of the
United States Code and Federal Executive Order No. 11246, as amended by
Executive Order No.11375 (known as the equal opportunity employer provisions);
and
         (m)   Certificates of insurance indicating the following coverages:
general liability, workers' compensation, completed operations, automobile,
hazardous occupation, and product liability.
      (3)   Employee Classification Act. All contractors and sub-contractors
are required to turn in certified payrolls as specified in Illinois Public Act
94-0515, and follow all provisions of the Employee Classification Act, ILCS Ch.
820, Act 185, §§ 1 et seq.
      (4)   Performance bonds. The City Council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city.
   (J)   Open market procedure. All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of $20,000 shall be made in the
open market, without newspaper advertisement and without observing the
procedure prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (K)   Professional services exempt from bidding requirements. All contracts
for professional services, including but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers and architects, and any other profession whose ethical
code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding
procedures, may be entered into by the city without observing the bidding
procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
   (L)   Emergency purchases. In case of an apparent emergency that requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials or services, the Mayor and/or
Director of Public Works shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure
as herein set forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies,
materials or services, regardless of the amount of the expenditure.
   (M)   Cooperative purchasing. The city shall have the authority to join with
other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans, when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby.
   (N)   Emergency contracts. In case of an emergency affecting the public
health and safety, the Mayor and/or Director of Public Works shall authorize a
vendor to perform any and all work necessary to resolve such emergency without
public advertisement or formal bid.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-29) (Ord. 591, passed 6-20-1977; Am. Ord. 1445, passed 8-6-
2007; Am. Ord. 1557, passed 8-2-2010; Am. Ord. 1744, passed 1-2-2018)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 2-2-12; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
8-9-1; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-2
§ 1-2-30 INTEREST IN CONTRACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person holding any office, either by election or appointment under
the laws or constitution of this state, may be in any manner interested, either
directly or indirectly, in his own name or in the name of any other person,
association, trust or corporation, in any contract or the performance of any
work in the making or letting of which such officer may be called upon to act
or vote. No such officer may represent, either as agent or otherwise, any
person, association, trust or corporation, with respect to any application or
bid for any contract or work in regard to which such officer may be called upon
to vote. Nor may any such officer take or receive or offer to take or receive,
either directly or indirectly, any money or other thing of value as a gift or
bribe or means of influencing his vote or action in his official character. Any
contract made and procured in violation hereof is void.
   (B)   However, any elected or appointed member of the governing body may
provide materials, merchandise, property, services or labor if they meet the
exemption requirements provided in ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, §§ 3 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-30)
§ 1-2-31 (RESERVED)
§ 1-2-32 CLAIMS.
   (A)   Presentation. All claims against the city for goods purchased,
damages, or originating in any other way, except for claims for salaries and
other allowances that are fixed by ordinance, shall be presented on or before
the first meeting of each month to the City Clerk. All such claims must be in
writing and items shall be specified.
   (B)   Exception. This does not prohibit the City Council from passing on any
claims not previously presented to the City Clerk if, in the opinion of the
Council, justice to the claimant requires it.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-32)
§ 1-2-33 MUNICIPAL YEAR. 
   The municipal year of the city shall begin on May 1 of each year and shall
end on April 30 of the following year. No appointment shall be made during the
last month of the municipal year in the year of a mayoral election.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-33)
§ 1-2-34 EXPENSES; REIMBURSEMENT.
   Any municipal officer or employee is entitled to reimbursement for any
reasonable actual expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-34)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-13-5; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-13-7
§ 1-2-35 OFFICIAL RECORDS.
   All official records, including the Corporate Seal, shall be kept in the
City Hall.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-35)
§ 1-2-36 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   IMRF. The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund (IMRF).
   (B)   Special Tax. The city includes in its levy and appropriation ordinance
provision for the levying of a special tax to pay the city's cost of
participating in the retirement fund and appropriate therefrom funds to pay the
cost of participation.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-36)
§ 1-2-37 FEDERAL OLD AGE AND SURVIVOR'S INSURANCE SYSTEM.
   (A)   ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEES shall mean all employees of the city, eligible
under the Federal Act, except persons elected to office by popular election,
and also the City Treasurer and City Attorney.
   (B)   Withholdings from salaries or wages of employees for the purpose
provided in sections hereof are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and
at such times as may be required by applicable state or federal laws or
regulations and shall be paid quarterly.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-37)
§§ 1-2-38 - 1-2-40 (RESERVED)
DIVISION V: MAYOR
§ 1-2-41 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his
successor is elected and has qualified.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-41) (Ord. 800, passed 8-7-1989)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-4
§ 1-2-42 MAYOR PRO-TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the Mayor which incapacitates
him from the performance of his duties but does not create a vacancy in the
office, the Mayor shall appoint one of the Aldermen, and if he cannot, the
Aldermen shall appoint one of its members to act as Mayor Pro-tem. The Mayor
Pro- tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform his duties and
possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor. The Mayor may appoint an
Alderman to administer affairs of the city with the advice and consent of the
City Council whenever the City Council considers it necessary and expedient.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-42)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-7
§ 1-2-43 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the Mayor and there remains an
unexpired portion of the term of at least 28 months and the vacancy occurs at
least 130 days before the general municipal election next scheduled under the
general election law, the vacancy shall be filled at that general municipal
election. The City Council shall elect one of its members “Acting Mayor”, who
shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the Mayor
until a successor to fill the vacancy has been elected and has qualified.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-43)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-6
§ 1-2-44 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. 
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and he shall see
to the enforcement of all laws and ordinances. He shall preside over the
meetings of the Council and perform such duties as may be required of him by
statute or law. He shall have supervision over all of the executive officers
and city employees; provided, however, his control is subject to the power of
the Council to prescribe the duties of various officers and employees. He shall
have the power and authority at any reasonable time to inspect all books,
papers and records pertaining to city affairs and kept by any officer of the
city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-44)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-9-1; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-11-3; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-6
§ 1-2-45 MAYOR'S SIGNATURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall sign all city warrants, commissions, permits and
licenses granted by authority of the Council, except as otherwise provided, and
such other acts and deeds as law or ordinance may require his official
signature.
   (B)   The Mayor may designate another to affix his signature to any written
instrument that requires the Mayor's signature. The Mayor must send written
notice of this designation to the City Council, stating: (1) the name of the
person he has selected; and (2) what instrument the person will have authority
to sign.
   (C)   A written signature of the Mayor executed by the person so designated
with the signature underneath of the person so designated shall be attached to
the notice. The notice with the signature attached shall be recorded in the
journal of the City Council and then filed with the City Clerk. When the
signature of the Mayor is placed on a written instrument at the direction of
the Mayor in the specified manner, the instrument, in all respects, shall be as
binding on the city as if signed by the Mayor in person. 
(1993 Code, § 1-2-45)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-5
§ 1-2-46 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointed. At the first annual meeting in May, the Mayor shall
appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, all officers
of the city whose election or appointment is not otherwise provided for, and
said officers shall hold their offices for the ensuing month or year and until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring
in an appointive office shall be filled in the same manner. The Mayor shall
issue a commission or certificate of appointment to all persons appointed to
office in the municipality.
   (B)   Filling vacancies. The Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council, all officers of the city whose appointment will
not otherwise be provided for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any
office, which by law or ordinance the Mayor is empowered and required to fill,
the Mayor shall, at the next regular meeting of the City Council, communicate
to it the name of the appointee to such office and pending the concurrence of
the Council in such appointment, the Mayor may designate some suitable person
to discharge the functions of such office.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-46)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-7-2; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-14-2; ILCS Ch. 50, Act 105, § 2
§ 1-2-47 SUPERVISION OF CONDUCT OF OFFICERS; REMOVALS.
   The Mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the city and see
that they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices. The Mayor shall have the power to remove any officer appointed by him
on any formal charge whenever the Mayor shall be of the opinion that the
interests of the city demand such removal, but the Mayor shall report the
reasons for the removal to the City Council, to be heard not less than five
days nor more than ten days after such removal. If the Mayor shall fail or
refuse to file with the City Clerk a statement of the reasons for such removal,
or if the City Council, by a two-thirds vote by yeas and nays of all its
members authorized by law to be elected, to be entered upon its record,
disapprove of such removal, such officer shall thereupon become restored to the
office from which the person was so removed, but the person shall give a new
bond and take a new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time
for the same offense.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-47)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-1
§ 1-2-48 DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS' DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officer of the city, this dispute shall be settled by the Mayor after
consultation with the City Attorney; and the Mayor shall have the power to
delegate to any appointive officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-48)
§ 1-2-49 FORMAL OCCASIONS. 
   The Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the city on formal occasions and
receptions, but in his absence or inability to attend any such function, the
Mayor may select any other city officer to so act.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-49)
§ 1-2-50 GENERAL DUTIES. 
   (A)   The Mayor shall perform all the duties which are prescribed by law,
and shall take care that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The Mayor from time to time may and annually shall give the City
Council information relative to the affairs of the city and may recommend for
their consideration such measures as he believes expedient.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-50)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-4; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-11-6
§ 1-2-51 BUSINESS LICENSE COMMISSIONER. 
   The Mayor is hereby designated as Business License Commissioner to issue and
revoke any and all business licenses as prescribed by law.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-51)
§ 1-2-52 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby designated as the local Liquor Control Commissioner with
all the powers to license and/or revoke any city liquor license, according to
state and city laws.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-52)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2
§ 1-2-53 HEALTH COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor is hereby declared to be Health Commissioner, with all powers to
abate and remove all nuisances or health hazards within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city authority as prescribed by law.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-53)
§ 1-2-54 DECIDING VOTE; MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the City Council. He shall
not vote on any ordinance, resolution or motion except:
      (1)   Where the vote of the Aldermen has resulted in a tie;
      (2)   Where one-half of the Aldermen elected have voted in favor of an
ordinance, resolution, or motion even though there is no tie;
      (3)   Where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by the Illinois Compiled Statutes to adopt an ordinance, resolution
or motion.
   (B)   In each instance specified in division (A) of this section, the Mayor
shall vote. Nothing in this section shall deprive an Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-
tem from voting in his capacity as Alderman, but he shall not be entitled to
another vote in his capacity as Acting Mayor or Mayor Pro-tem.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-54)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-14; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3-11-17
§§ 1-2-55 - 1-2-56 (RESERVED)
DIVISION VI: CITY CLERK
§ 1-2-57 ELECTION AND TERM.
   The City Clerk shall be elected at the same time that the Mayor is elected,
except in the case of an election to fill a mayoral vacancy, for a four-year
term, and shall hold office until his or her successor is elected or appointed
and qualifies.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-57) (Ord. 800, passed 8-7-1989; Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-
2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-5; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,§
3.1-10-50
§ 1-2-58 OATH AND BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of the City Clerk, such person shall take
and subscribe the oath or affirmation required by the Illinois Constitution and
file the oath or affirmation in the office of the City Clerk, and the person
shall also execute a bond with sureties to be approved by the City Council in
the penal sum as established by resolution or ordinance, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of the office, according to law and the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 3.1-10-30
§ 1-2-59 SALARY.
   The City Clerk shall receive the salary or compensation in such amount and
payable at such times as may be fixed in the annual budget of the city or as
otherwise fixed by ordinance by the City Council. The City Clerk shall receive
a stipend payment of $75 for each committee meeting the City Clerk attends and
at which the City Clerk records the proceedings, provided that the City Clerk
shall receive a maximum of 12 stipend payments per calendar quarter
irrespective of the number of meetings attended and recorded by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000; Am. Ord.1907, passed 5-5-2025)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 1-2-60 VACANCY.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of the City Clerk, it shall be filled by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The person so
appointed shall hold office for the unexpired term of the office.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-60) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-5
§ 1-2-61 GENERAL DUTIES.
   The City Clerk shall keep the corporate seal, to be provided by the City
Council, and all papers belonging to the city for which the custody and control
are not given to other officers. The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of
the City Council, and each committee thereof, and keep a full record of their
proceedings in the journal. The City Clerk shall record and properly index in a
book kept for that purpose all ordinances passed by the City Council, and at
the foot of the record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a
memorandum of the date of the passage and, when published, of the publication
of such ordinance. The record of those proceedings shall be made available for
public inspection within seven days after being approved or accepted by the
City Council as the official minutes of their proceedings.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000; Am. Ord.1907, passed 5-5-2025)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-62 RECORDATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose,
all ordinances passed by the City Council. Immediately following each
ordinance, the City Clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of the passage
and of the publication or posting, where required, of the ordinance. This
record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie
evidence of the contents, passage, and of the publication or posting of
ordinances.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-5
§ 1-2-63 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The City Clerk shall cause all ordinances imposing any fine, penalty,
imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, to be printed or
published in book or pamphlet form, or to be published at least once, within 30
days after passage, in one or more newspapers published in the city, or if no
newspaper is published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the city. If there is an error in printing, the publishing
requirement shall be satisfied if those portions of the ordinance that were
erroneously printed are republished, correctly, within 30 days after the
original publication that contained the error. The fact that an error occurred
in publication shall not affect the effective date of the ordinance so
published. If the error in printing is not corrected within 30 days after the
date of the original publication that contained the error, as provided in the
preceding sentence, the City Council may by ordinance declare the ordinance
that was erroneously published to be nevertheless valid and in effect no sooner
than the tenth day after the date of the original publication, notwithstanding
the error in publication, and shall order the original ordinance to be
published once more within 30 days after the passage of the validating
ordinance.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4
§ 1-2-64 ISSUE NOTICES.
   The City Clerk shall record in proper books for such purposes all official
bonds, and note upon each bond so recorded where the same was entered of
record, and the book and pages where recorded. The City Clerk shall issue and
cause to be served upon all Aldermen notices of all special meetings of the
City Council. The City Clerk shall issue and cause to be served notices to the
members of the different committees of that body and all persons whose
attendance may be required before any such committee when so directed by the
Chairman thereof.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-65 DELIVERY OF PAPERS TO OFFICERS.
   The City Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the City Council
and to the officers of this city all petitions, communications, reports and
resolutions, orders, claims and other papers referred to those committees or
officers by the City Council on demand therefor. The City Clerk shall also,
without delay, deliver to the Mayor all ordinances or resolutions, orders, and
claims in his or her charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted
upon by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-66 PREPARATION OF DOCUMENTS; COMMISSIONS; LICENSES.
   The City Clerk shall prepare all commissions, licenses, permits and other
official documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and
shall attest the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall, in like
manner, attest all deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this
city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-61) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-67 REPORT OF LICENSES.
   The City Clerk shall report to the City Council at its first regular meeting
each month, and more often if the City Council so requires, the data contained
in his or her license register with respect to licenses issued during the
previous month.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-62) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-68 DELIVERY OF LICENSES.
   In all cases where the city requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain plates, tags or stickers from the City Clerk, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to deliver such plates, tags, or stickers
to the person paying for the license fee.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-63) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-69 ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS.
   The City Clerk shall have the power to administer oaths or affirmations for
all lawful purposes.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-65) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-20
§ 1-2-70 RECORD OF BONDS ISSUED.
   The City Clerk shall keep in his or her office, in books used solely for
that purpose, a correct list of all the outstanding bonds of the city, showing
the number and amount of each and for and to whom the bonds were issued. When
bonds are purchased, paid, or canceled, these books shall show these additional
facts. In the City Clerk's annual report, the City Clerk shall describe,
particularly, the bonds sold during the year and the terms of sale, with every
item of expense incurred in connection with the bonds.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-66) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-110
§ 1-2-71 REPORTS.
   The City Clerk shall, on or before the first regular meeting in each month,
snake out and submit to the City Council a statement or report in writing of
all the moneys received and warrants drawn by him or her during the preceding
month, showing therein from what sources and on what account moneys were
received; and for what purpose and on what account the warrants were drawn or
paid.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-67) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-72 SUCCESSOR.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office all books,
records, papers, maps and effects of every detail and description belonging to
the city or pertaining to his or her office and not in actual use and
possession of other city officers; and upon the expiration of his or her
official term, he or she shall deliver all such books, records, papers, and
effects to his or her successor in office.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-68) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-73 PAYROLL.
   The City Clerk shall prepare the city payroll for all persons who come under
appropriations for salaries.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-69) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-74 AUDIT ACCOUNTS.
   The City Clerk shall audit all accounts or claims allowed by the City
Council as provided by the ordinances, and when such claims are allowed as
aforesaid, the City Clerk shall draw a warrant in due form upon the City
Treasury therefor.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-70) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-75 WARRANTS.
   The City Clerk shall keep in a suitable book an accurate list of all
warrants drawn upon the City Treasury, showing the date, number and amount of
each and the name of the person in whose favor drawn. There shall be a
statement of charges attached to each check drawn. All warrants drawn upon the
Treasury shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk, and
shall specify therein the particular fund or appropriation to which the same is
chargeable, and the person to whom payable, and no money shall be otherwise
paid than upon such warrants so drawn.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-71) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-1-8; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-76 FILING OF REGULATIONS AND PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Any regulation or public record adopted by reference by the city shall be
filed with the City Clerk and kept on file in the office of the City Clerk in
accordance with ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2
§ 1-2-77 NOTIFICATION TO PERSONS APPOINTED TO OFFICE.
   Within five days after an appointment is made, the City Clerk shall notify
all persons appointed to office of their appointment.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-73) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
§ 1-2-78 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES.
   The City Clerk shall appoint the various clerks and subordinates of his or
her office authorized by the City Council and shall be responsible for the work
performance and fidelity of all persons so appointed.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-45
§ 1-2-79 APPOINTMENT OF CLERK PRO-TEM.
   A Clerk Pro-tem may be appointed by the City Council to keep the minutes of
any City Council meeting when the City Clerk is absent temporarily.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5
§ 1-2-79-1 EXAMINATION OF COLLECTOR'S WARRANTS, BOOKS AND THE LIKE, AND
ISSUANCE OF RECEIPT.
   All of the City Collector's warrants, books and vouchers, and all papers
pertaining to that office may be examined at any time by the City Clerk.
Whenever the Collector pays over to the Treasurer money collected by the
Collector and takes a treasurer's receipt and files same with the City Clerk,
the City Clerk at that time, or on demand, shall give the Collector a copy of
the receipt so filed.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-120
§ 1-2-79-2 SUPERVISION OF OTHER OFFICERS.
   The City Clerk shall exercise a general responsibility over all the officers
of the city charged in any manner with the receipt, collection, or
disbursement, of the city revenue, or with the collection and return of the
city revenue, or with the collection and return of the city revenue into the
treasury.
(Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-115
§ 1-2-79-3 DEPUTY CLERK.
   The City Clerk may appoint a Deputy Clerk. A Deputy Clerk may execute all
documents required by law to be executed by the City Clerk and may affix the
seal of the Clerk wherever required. In signing any document, a Deputy Clerk
shall sign the name of the Clerk followed with the word “By” and the Deputy
Clerk's own name and the words “Deputy Clerk”. The powers and duties of a
Deputy Clerk shall be exercised only in the absence of the Clerk from the place
where the Clerk's office is maintained, and only when either written direction
has been given by the Clerk to that Deputy to exercise a power or the corporate
authorities have determined by resolution that the Municipal Clerk is
temporarily or permanently incapacitated to perform that function. When a
Deputy's signature is duly authorized as provided in this section and is
affixed by a Deputy in the manner prescribed in this section on any document,
including but not limited to contracts, bonds, or other obligations of the
city, the document shall have the same effect as if the document had been
signed by the City Clerk in person.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-75) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§ 3.1-35-95
§ 1-2-79-4 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the City Clerk shall perform all other
duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him or her
by law or resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-74) (Am. Ord. 1122, passed 1-3-2000)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90
DIVISION VII: CITY TREASURER
§ 1-2-80 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the Finance Department. It shall embrace the City
Council Committee on Finance and the City Treasurer.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-80)
§ 1-2-81 FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   The standing Committee on Finance shall exercise a general supervision over
the affairs of the Finance Department. It shall ascertain the condition and
needs thereof; shall, from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City
Council so that a full understanding thereof shall be had; and generally shall
do all the acts necessary to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-81)
§ 1-2-82 ELECTION AND VACANCY.
   The Treasurer shall be elected at the same election as the Mayor for a four-
year term and shall serve until his successor is elected and has qualified. If
a vacancy occurs in the office, it shall be filled by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council. The person so appointed shall hold
office for the unexpired term of the officer elected.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-82)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-2
§ 1-2-83 MONEY; WARRANTS; ACCOUNTS.
   The City Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to this city and shall
pay all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk and
not otherwise and shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation
and the debits and credits belonging thereto. He shall give to every person
paying money into the City Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and upon what account paid, and he shall file copies of such receipts
with the Clerk with his monthly reports.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-83)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-1-8
§ 1-2-84 WARRANT REGISTER. 
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid by
him, showing the number, date, and amount of each, the fund from which paid and
the name of the person to whom and when paid, and he shall cancel all warrants
as soon as redeemed by him.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-84)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-1-8; ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §
8-1-9
§ 1-2-85 SEPARATION OF FUNDS.
   The Treasurer shall keep all moneys in his hands belonging to this city
separate and distinct from his own money and he shall not use, either directly
or indirectly, the city moneys or warrants in his custody and keeping for his
own use and benefit, or that of any other person. Any violation of this section
shall subject him to removal from office by the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-85)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-4
§ 1-2-86 BOND.
   The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his duties and to indemnify the city for any loss due to neglect of duty or
wrongful act on his part; and the amount of such bond shall not be less than
10% of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments received by the
Treasurer during any fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal years nor less
than one and one-half times the largest amount which the Council estimates will
be in his custody at any one time, nor less than three times the number of
residents of the city, as determined by the last Federal Census. Such bond
shall be filed with the Clerk as required by statute.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-86)
§ 1-2-87 SPECIAL FUNDS.
   All moneys received by the City Treasurer on any special tax or special
assessment shall be held by the Treasurer as a special fund to be applied to
the payment of the improvement for which such special tax or special assessment
was made, and said money shall be used for no other purpose whatsoever, except
to reimburse the city for money expended for such improvement.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-87)
§ 1-2-88 BOOKKEEPING. 
   The Treasurer shall keep his books and accounts in such a manner as to show
with accuracy all moneys received and disbursed by him for the city, stating
from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what account paid
out, and in such a way that the books and accounts may be readily investigated
and understood, and the books and accounts and all files and papers of his
office shall be, at all times, open to examination by the Mayor, the Finance
Committee and/or any member of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-88)
§ 1-2-89 STATEMENTS. 
   The Treasurer shall report to the corporate authorities at the first monthly
meeting a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures of the
municipality, as shown by his books, up to the time of the report.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-89)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-5
§ 1-2-90 REPORT OF DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   It shall be the duty of the Treasurer to report to the City Clerk any
officer of the city authorized to receive money for the use of the city who may
fail to make a return of the moneys received by the Treasurer at the time
required by law or by ordinances of the city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-90)
§ 1-2-91 YEAR-END REPORT.
   (A)   Within six months after the end of each fiscal year, the Treasurer
shall prepare and file with the City Clerk annually an account of monies
received and expenditures incurred during the preceding fiscal year as
specified in this section. The Treasurer shall show in such account the
following:
      (1)   All monies received by the city, indicating the total amounts in
the aggregate received in each account of the city, with a general statement
concerning the source of such receipts; provided, however, for the purposes of
this division (A)(1), the term “account” shall not be construed to mean each
individual taxpayer, householder, licensee, utility user or such other persons
whose payments to the city are credited to a general account;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, all monies
paid out by the city where the total amount paid during the fiscal year exceeds
$1,000, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each such account;
      (3)   All monies paid out by the city as compensation for personal
services, giving the name of each person to whom paid, on what account paid and
the total amount in the aggregate paid to each person from each such account;
and
      (4)   A summary statement of operations for all funds and account groups
of the city, as excerpted from the annual financial report as filed with the
appropriate state agency of the State of Illinois.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such account from the City Treasurer, the City Clerk
shall publish the account at least once in one or more newspapers published in
the city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-91)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-5.1
§ 1-2-92 DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Designation by Council. The Treasurer is hereby required to keep all
funds and moneys in his custody belonging to the city in such places of deposit
as have been designated by division (E) of this section. When requested by the
Treasurer, the corporate authorities shall designate a bank or banks in which
may be kept the funds and moneys of the city in the custody of the Treasurer.
When a bank has been designated as a depository, it shall continue as such
depository until ten days have elapsed after a new depository is designated and
has qualified as provided by law. When a new depository is designated, the
corporate authorities shall notify the sureties of the Treasury of that fact in
writing at least five days before the transfer of funds.
   (B)   Qualifications of bank. No bank shall be qualified to receive city
funds or moneys until it has furnished the corporate authorities with copies of
the last two sworn statements of resources and liabilities which the bank is
required to furnish to the auditor of public accounts or to the Comptroller of
Currency. Each bank designated as a depository for such funds or moneys shall,
while acting as such depository, furnish the corporate authorities with a copy
of all statements of resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish
to the auditor of public accounts or to the Comptroller of Currency.
   (C)   Discharge from responsibility. The Treasurer shall be discharged from
responsibility for all funds or moneys which he deposits in a designated bank
while the funds and moneys are so deposited. If city funds or moneys are
deposited in a designated bank, however, the amount of such deposits shall not
exceed 75% of the bank's capital stock and surplus, and the Treasurer shall be
responsible for funds or moneys deposited in the bank in excess of this
limitation.
   (D)   Investments. The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to invest surplus
funds or reserve funds of the city in the following types of investments:
      (1)   General obligation securities of the United States of America or of
the State of Illinois;
      (2)   Certificates of deposit and time deposits in any bank where such
investments are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company;
      (3)   Money market certificates; and
      (4)   Short-term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association.
   (E)   The following banks are herewith designated as places of deposit where
the City Treasurer is required to keep all funds and moneys in his or her
custody belonging to the municipality:
      (1)   Midland States Bank, Waterloo, Illinois;
      (2)   First National Bank of Waterloo, Waterloo, Illinois;
      (3)   State Bank, Waterloo, Illinois;
      (4)   The State Treasurer’s Investment Pool;
      (5)   Dietrich Bank, Waterloo, Illinois;
      (6)   Illinois Metropolitan Investment Fund;
      (7)   Illinois National Bank, Springfield, Illinois; and
      (8)   Bank of Monroe County, Waterloo, Illinois.
   (F)   Consolidation of demand deposit accounts. The City Treasurer is hereby
authorized to consolidate into one demand deposit account the checking accounts
maintained by the city except such accounts as are required by law to be
maintained as separate and distinct accounts, in and with such institution as
designated in division (E) of this section, as determined by the City Council
from time to time by resolution or motion.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-92) (Am. Ord. 1078, passed 10-19-1998; Am. Ord. 1514, passed
6-15-2009; Am. Ord. 1564, passed 10-25-2010; Am. Ord. 1656, passed 1-27-2014;
Am. Ord. 1694, passed 1-4-2016; Am. Ord. 1709, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1784,
passed 5-20-2019; Am. Ord. 1861, passed 9-6-2022)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-3
§§ 1-2-93 - 1-2-95 (RESERVED)
DIVISION VIII: JUDICIARY
§ 1-2-96 APPOINTMENT OF ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advise and
consent of the City Council, for the term of one year, unless sooner removed
for cause, and until his successor shall have been appointed and qualified. The
Attorney shall have full charge of the law affairs of the city and shall be
known as the City Attorney and shall receive an annual salary as determined by
the appropriation ordinance, compensation for office services and advice, and
shall receive reasonable fees for other services rendered when, in his judgment
or in the judgment of the Mayor or City Council, the same are necessary or are
for the best interests of the city.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-96)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-7-3
§ 1-2-97 DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecute for city. The City Attorney shall prosecute or defend on
behalf of the city in all cases in which the interests of the corporation or
any officer thereof are involved; and the City Clerk shall furnish him with
certified copies of any ordinance, bond or paper in his keeping necessary to be
filed or used in any suit or proceedings.
   (B)   Preparation of ordinances. When required, he shall advise the City
Council or any officer in all matters of law in which the interests of the
corporation are involved, and he shall draw such ordinances, bonds, forms and
contracts, or examine and pass upon the same, as may be required of him by the
Mayor, the City Council or any committee thereof.
   (C)   Judgments. He shall direct executions to be issued upon all judgments
recovered in favor of the city, and shall direct their prompt service. He shall
examine all the bills of the officers of courts, and of other officers of the
law, and shall certify to their correctness and the liability of the city
therefor.
   (D)   Violations of ordinances. He shall institute and prosecute an action
in every case of violation of a city ordinance when instructed to do so by the
Mayor, City Council or any committee thereof.
   (E)   Prosecution of suits. He shall not be required to prosecute any suit
or action arising under the ordinances of the city when, upon investigation of
the same, he shall become satisfied that the complaint was instituted
maliciously, vexatiously or without just cause; and he shall dismiss or
discontinue any such suit or proceeding upon such terms as he may deem just or
equitable.
   (F)   Collection of taxes. He is hereby authorized and instructed to enforce
the collection of any and all taxes and special assessments in the collection
of which the city is interested and to attend all sales of real or personal
property made to enforce the collection of such taxes or special assessments
and to bid thereat on behalf of the city.
   (G)   Commissions. The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisor for the
utility systems, for the Plan Commission, for the Zoning Board of Appeals and
for all other boards and commissions hereafter established by the City Council.
He shall perform all legal services as may be required for those boards and
commissions.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-97)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-7-3
§ 1-2-98 ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEYS.
   The Mayor may appoint, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
attorney(s) as Assistant Attorneys, for the purpose of assisting the City
Attorney with respect to his or her duties and responsibilities as City
Attorney. When such an Assistant City Attorney performs such duties and
responsibilities, he or she shall possess the status, power and authority of
the City Attorney, and shall be entitled to the same immunities and privileges
of the City Attorney. Assistant City Attorneys shall be subject to the
supervision and direction of the City Attorney.
(Ord. 1151, passed 7-17-2000; Am. Ord. 1482, passed 6-23-2008)
§§ 1-2-99 - 1-2-104 (RESERVED)
DIVISION IX: CITY ENGINEER
§ 1-2-105 APPOINTMENT; DESIGNATED CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AND BUILDING
COMMISSIONER.
   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may appoint an
Engineer for the city, who shall serve for the term of the Mayor or for such
period not exceeding the term of the Mayor, as may be designated by the Mayor
and the City Council. The City Engineer is hereby designated as the Code
Enforcement Officer and the Building Commissioner.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-105)
§ 1-2-106 DUTIES; SALARY.
   The Engineer for the city shall make and submit plans, estimates and
specifications for any public work which may be proposed or ordered by the City
Council. He shall also examine all public works under his charge and see that
the plans, estimates and specifications for the same are properly executed. He
shall receive a salary as established in the annual budget.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-106)
§§ 1-2-107 - 1-2-109 (RESERVED)
DIVISION X: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 1-2-110 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Public Works Director for the city is hereby established.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-111 APPOINTMENT.
   This division establishes the office of the Public Works Director, who shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of a majority of the City
Council. He or she shall be required to relinquish his or her office and
authority, for reason other than "cause", in no less than 90 days on the
written demand of the Mayor, with subsequent Council approval. In addition, a
60-day termination or resignation notice is required if agreed to by both
parties in writing. Termination for cause shall result in immediate dismissal
with termination pay as established by the Mayor and the City Council. The
position of Public Works Director shall be a salaried position exempt from the
requirements of wage and hour laws. In addition, it shall not be covered by any
collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-112 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS.
   Candidates for the position of Director of Public Works shall possess a high
school diploma and have completed a minimum of two years of formal education in
a college engineering curriculum or a trade school specializing in engineering-
related subjects such as drafting, surveying, blueprint reading, and the like.
The candidate shall also be required to have two years of practical experience
in the related fields.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-113 DUTIES.
   The Director of Public Works shall have the following duties:
   (A)   He or she shall have the general management and supervision of all
matters pertaining to all utilities of the city, including but not limited to
the Electric Department, Water Department, Sewer Department, Gas Department and
Street Department.
   (B)   He or she shall be directly responsible to the Mayor and City Council
for the complete and proper operation of this city's utilities.
   (C)   He or she shall be an ex officio member of all departmental committees
of the City Council. He or she shall not be a voting member.
   (D)   He or she shall control the work and overtime schedules of all
employees in all public works departments and shall have the power to
discipline city employees.
   (E)   He or she shall be responsible for all equipment assigned to the
public works departments, their proper care and maintenance and the proper
administration of said departments.
   (F)   He or she shall be the city's representative to the I.M.E.A. and all
other utility alliances, with the advice and consent of the Mayor and City
Council. He or she shall also be responsible to report all of the alliances’
matters to the appropriate committees.
   (G)   He or she shall review and be responsible for the utility layout of
all subdivision plats.
   (H)   He or she shall cause to prepare bid specifications for the
acquisition of all equipment relating to the public works departments.
   (I)   He or she shall be responsible to see that all department heads
prepare and submit their budgets to the Budget Officer in a timely manner.
   (J)   He or she shall be responsible for establishing and maintenance of all
equipment inventory.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-114 CONTRACTS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
1-2-29 and any other provisions of this code, except in instances in which any
work or other improvements are to be paid in whole or in part by special
assessment or special taxation, the Director of Public Works, the Mayor and
department heads are authorized as follows:
   (A)   Mayor and Director of Public Works.
      (1)   To make purchases and issue purchase orders in the name of the city
for municipal purposes for sums not to exceed $10,000 on a verbal estimate and
$30,000 on a written estimate; and
      (2)   To make purchases and issue purchase orders in the name of the city
for utility operation and public works purposes for sums not to exceed $10,000
on a verbal estimate and $20,000 on a written estimate.
   (B)   Department heads.
      (1)   To make purchases and issue purchase orders in the name of the city
for the needs of their departments for sums not to exceed $2,500 on a verbal
estimate.
      (2)   The foregoing authority is subject, however, to funds having been
budgeted for such purposes and the Mayor and/or the Director of Public Works
notifying the Collector-Budget Officer of each exercise of the authority
granted in this section and making a monthly report at the first meeting of the
City Council each month of all purchases and/or purchase orders issued in the
previous month pursuant to the authority granted by this section.
   (C)   Other.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
1-2-29 and any other provisions of this code, the Mayor, Director of Public
Works, and the Gas Committee Chair, by the majority vote of aforesaid persons,
shall be authorized to make purchases and issue purchase orders in the name of
the city for the purchase of natural gas.
      (2)   The foregoing authority is subject, however, to funds having been
budgeted for such purposes and the Mayor, the Director of Public Works and/or
the Gas Committee Chair notifying the Collector-Budget Officer of each exercise
of the authority granted in this section and making a monthly report at the
first meeting of the City Council each month of all purchases and/or purchase
orders issued in the previous month pursuant to the authority granted by this
section.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
Cross-reference:
See Binding and contract procedures, §
1-2-29
§ 1-2-115 ABSENCE.
   In the absence of the Director of Public Works, due to illness, vacation or
otherwise, the above-mentioned powers and duties of the Director of Public
Works shall revert to the Deputy Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-116 OTHER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Director of Public Works shall have any further powers and perform
further duties as provided by the statutes of the State of Illinois and by the
code and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-117 SEVERABILITY.
   No other ordinance of the city shall be read to conflict with the provisions
of this division; however, if any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
or portion of this division is for any reason held to be in conflict with any
other ordinance or is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed as a separate, distinct
and independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§§ 1-2-118 - 1-2-119 (RESERVED)
DIVISION XI: DEPUTY DIRECTOR  OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 1-2-120 POSITION ESTABLISHED.
   The position of Deputy Director of Public Works for the city is hereby
established.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-121 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the position of Deputy Director of
Public Works. The Deputy Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The position shall be a
salaried position exempt from the requirements of wage and hour laws. In
addition, it shall not be covered by any collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-122 TERM OF APPOINTMENT.
   The Deputy Director of Public Works shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-123 MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS.
   Candidates for the position of Deputy Director of Public Works shall possess
a high school diploma and have completed a minimum of two years of formal
education in a college engineering curriculum or a trade school specializing in
engineering-related subjects such as drafting, surveying, blueprint reading,
and the like. The candidate shall also be required to have two years of
practical experience in the related fields.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-124 DUTIES.
   The Deputy Director of Public Works shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Assist the Director of Public Works with the general management and
supervision of all matters pertaining to all utilities of the city, including
but not limited to the Electric Department, Water Department, Sewer Department,
Gas Department and Street Department.
   (B)   Be directly responsible to the Director of Public Works for the
complete and proper operation of the city's utilities.
   (C)   Be responsible for understanding and following all collective
bargaining agreements governing employees in the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Control the work and overtime schedules of all public works employees
and shall have the power to discipline city employees.
   (E)   Coordinate directly with departmental lead persons regarding
scheduling, monitoring, and inspection of field work. The Deputy Director of
Public Works shall be the first point of contact for all lead persons for all
issues that arise concerning field work and scheduling.
   (F)   Be responsible for all equipment assigned to the public works
departments, their proper care and maintenance and the proper administration of
said departments.
   (G)   Assist the Director of Public Works with reviewing and approving the
utility layout of all subdivision plats.
   (H)   Assist the Director of Public Works with preparing bid specifications
for the acquisition of all equipment relating to the public works departments.
   (I)   Be responsible to see that all department heads prepare and submit
their budgets to the Budget Officer in a timely manner.
   (J)   Be responsible for establishing and maintenance of all equipment
inventory.
   (K)   Serve as the Safety Officer for the City of Waterloo and monitor
compliance with all applicable safety standards for all work performed by City
employees.
   (L)   Perform other duties as assigned by the Director of Public Works or
the Mayor.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-125 CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
1-2-29 and any other provisions of this code, except in instances in which any
work or other improvements are to be paid in whole or in part by special
assessment or special taxation, the Deputy Director of Public Works is
authorized to make purchases and issue purchase orders in the name of the city
for utility operation and public works purposes for sums not to exceed $10,000
on a verbal estimate and $30,000 on a written estimate.
   (B)   The foregoing authority is subject, however, to funds having been
budgeted for such purposes and the Deputy Director of Public Works notifying
the Collector-Budget Officer of each exercise of the authority granted in this
section and making a monthly report at the first meeting of the City Council
each month of all purchases and/or purchase orders issued in the previous month
pursuant to the authority granted by this section.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
Cross-reference:
See Binding and contract procedures, §
1-2-29
§ 1-2-126 COMMITTEE CHAIR.
   In the absence of the Director of Public Works and Deputy Director of Public
Works, due to illness, vacation or otherwise, the above-mentioned powers and
duties of the Director of Public Works and Deputy Director of Public Works
shall revert to the specific committee chair of the utility involved and/or the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-127 OTHER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Deputy Director of Public Works shall have any further powers and
perform further duties as provided by the statutes of the State of Illinois and
by the code and ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-128 SEVERABILITY.
   No other ordinance of the city shall be read to conflict with the provisions
of this division; however, if any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
or portion of this division is for any reason held to be in conflict with any
other ordinance or is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed as a separate, distinct
and independent provision, and such holdings shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. 1888, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 1-2-129 (RESERVED)
DIVISION XII: CITY COLLECTOR
§ 1-2-130 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the office of City Collector. The
City Collector shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-131 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The City Collector shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-132 OATH AND BOND REQUIRED.
   Before entering upon the duties of the City Collector, the person appointed
shall take and subscribe the oath or affirmation required by the Illinois
Constitution and file the oath or affirmation in the office of the City Clerk,
and the person shall also execute a bond with sureties to be approved by the
City Council in the penal sum as established by resolution or ordinance,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office and the
payment of all moneys received by the City Collector, according to law and the
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-133 SALARY.
   The City Collector shall receive the salary or compensation in such amount
and payable at such times as may be established in the annual budget of the
city or as otherwise fixed by the City Council.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-134 DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Collector shall preserve all warrants returned to the
Collector, and except where by ordinance or by statute special taxes are to be
paid directly to the City Treasurer, the City Collector shall execute all
special assessments and other warrants, which by law and the ordinances of the
city may be executed by the City Collector; and shall collect all moneys due to
and receivable by the city on account of any special assessment, special tax,
license, permit, or tax issued by the city, and on account of electric, gas,
water and sewer utility services furnished by the city, and shall collect all
bills and statements for moneys due and owing to the city, furnished the City
Collector by the City Clerk; and shall perform such other duties as now are, or
may hereafter be imposed upon the City Collector by law or the ordinances of
the city. Whenever any ordinance of the city requires money to be paid to the
City Clerk or his receipt to be given therefor, such money shall be paid to and
receipt given by the City Collector and not the City Clerk.
   (B)   The City Collector shall, on each regular work day of Monday through
Friday, and more often if required by the City Council, pay over to the City
Treasurer all moneys collected by the City Collector from any source
whatsoever, taking such Treasurer's receipt in duplicate therefor, which
receipt the Collector shall immediately file with the City Clerk who shall, at
the same time, or on demand, give such Collector a copy of any such receipt so
filed.
   (C)   The City Collector shall make a regular report to the City Clerk and
the City Council each month on or before the first meeting of the City Council
of all money collected by the City Collector, the account on which collected,
or of any other official matter.
   (D)   The City Collector shall keep books and accounts, which shall show all
moneys collected and the accounts on which collected and other matters
pertaining to his or her office. Such books and accounts shall be kept in a
clear, intelligible and methodical manner.
   (E)   The City Collector shall make such reports regarding delinquent
special assessments as are required by statute and shall, between April 1 and
April 10 of each year, file with the City Clerk a statement of: (1) all the
money collected by the Collector during the year; (2) the particular warrant,
special assessment, or account on which collected; (3) the balance of money
uncollected on all warrants in the Collector's possession; and (4) the balance
remaining uncollected at the time of the return on all warrants that the
Collector returned to the Clerk during the preceding fiscal year. The Clerk
shall publish the aforementioned statement at least once, within ten days in a
newspaper published in the city.
   (F)   The City Collector shall devote full time to the duties of the City
Collector's office during such office hours as the City Council shall from time
to time prescribe for the operations of the City Collector's office.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-135 EXAMINATION OF RECORDS.
   All of the Collector's warrants, books, and vouchers, and all papers
pertaining to the office may be examined at any time by the Mayor, City Clerk
or any member or committee of the City Council.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-136 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES.
   The City Collector shall appoint the various clerks and subordinates of his
or her office authorized by the City Council and shall be responsible for the
work performance and fidelity of all persons so appointed.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-137 POSSESSION OF MONEY AND PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   The City Collector is prohibited from keeping the money of the city in his
or her possession, or in the possession of any person for his or her use,
beyond the time for its payment to the Treasurer. Any violation of this
provision shall subject the City Collector to immediate removal from office.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-138 REPORTS WITH RESPECT TO DUTIES AND ACTIVITIES.
   The City Collector shall report to the Mayor and/or the designee of the
Mayor with respect to the City Collector's duties and activities.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-139 INCORPORATION OF STATUTES.
   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-30-15 through 3.1-35-135
relating to the position of Collector and the duties and responsibilities of
Collector are hereby incorporated into this ordinance by reference, and any
amendment thereof that becomes effective after the passage of this Division XII
shall be incorporated by reference and shall be applicable to the City
Collector and the duties and responsibilities of such officer.
(Ord. 1112, passed 9-20-1999)
DIVISION XIII: BUDGET OFFICER
§ 1-2-140 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the office of Budget Officer. The
Budget Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of
the City Council.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-141 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Budget Officer shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-142 OATH AND BOND REQUIRED.
   Before entering upon the duties of the Budget Officer, the person appointed
shall take and subscribe the oath or affirmation required by the Illinois
Constitution and file the oath or affirmation in the office of the City Clerk,
and the person shall also execute a bond with sureties to be approved by the
City Council in the penal sum as established by resolution or ordinance,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office,
according to law and the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-143 SALARY.
   The Budget Officer shall receive the salary or compensation in such amount
and payable at such times as may be established in the annual budget of the
city or as otherwise fixed by the City Council.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-144 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Budget Officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Permit and encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions, and boards.
   (B)   Compile an annual budget in accordance with §
1-2-145.
   (C)   Examine all books and records of all city departments, commissions,
and boards which relate to monies received by the city, city departments,
commissions, and boards, and paid out by the city, city departments,
commissions, and boards, debts and accounts receivable, amounts owed by or to
the city, city departments, commissions, and boards.
   (D)   Obtain such additional information from the city, city departments,
commissions, and boards as may be useful to the Budget Officer for purposes of
compiling a city budget, such information to be furnished by the city, city
departments, commissions, and boards in the form required by the Budget
Officer. Any department, commission or board which refuses to make such
information as is requested of it available to the Budget Officer shall not be
permitted to make expenditures under any subsequent budget for the city until
such city department, commission, or board shall comply in full with the
request of the Budget Officer.
   (E)   Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the city, city departments, commissions, or board
except as authorized by the budget.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-145 COMPILATION AND CONTENT OF BUDGET.
   The Budget Officer shall compile a budget, which budget shall contain
estimates of revenues available to the city for the fiscal year for which the
budget is drafted, together with recommended expenditures for the city and all
of the city's departments, commissions and boards. Revenue estimates and
expenditure recommendations shall be presented in a manner which is in
conformity with good fiscal management practices. Substantial conformity to a
chart of accounts, now or in the future, recommended by the National Committee
on Governmental Accounting or the Auditor of Public Accounts of the State of
Illinois, or the Division of Local Governmental Affairs and Property Taxes of
the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois or successor agencies shall
be deemed proof of such conformity. The budget shall contain actual or
estimated revenues and expenditures for the two years immediately preceding the
fiscal year for which the budget is prepared. So far as is possible, the fiscal
data for such two preceding fiscal years shall be itemized in a manner which is
in conformity with the chart of accounts approved above. Each budget shall show
the specific fund from which each anticipated expenditure shall be made.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-146 PASSAGE OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   Passage of the annual budget by the City Council shall be in lieu of the
passage of the appropriation ordinance as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-
2-9. The annual budget need not be published except in a manner provided in §
1-2-148. The annual budget shall be adopted by the City Council before the
beginning of the fiscal year to which it applies.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-147 REVISION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The heads of municipal departments, boards, or commissions are authorized to
delete, add to, change or create subclasses within object classes budgeted
previously to the department, board, or commission, subject to such limitation
or requirement for prior approval by the Budget Officer or Mayor of the city as
the City Council, upon a two-thirds vote of the corporate authorities then
holding office, may establish. By a vote of two-thirds of the members of the
corporate authorities then holding office, the annual budget for the city may
be revised by deleting, adding to, changing or creating subclasses within
object classes and object classes themselves. No revision of the budget shall
be made increasing the budget in the event fiends are not available to
effectuate the purpose of the revision.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-148 PUBLIC INSPECTION; NOTICE AND HEARING ON BUDGET.
   The corporate authorities shall make the tentative annual budget
conveniently available to public inspection for at least ten days prior to the
passage of the annual budget, by publication in the journal of the proceedings
of the City Council or in such other form as the City Council may prescribe.
Not less than one week after the publication of the tentative annual budget,
and prior to final action on the budget, the City Council shall hold at least
one public hearing on the tentative annual budget, after which hearing or
hearings the tentative budget may be further revised and passed without any
further inspection, notice or hearing. Notice of this hearing shall be given by
publication in a newspaper having a general circulation in the municipality at
least one week prior to the time of the hearing.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-149 APPOINTMENT OF SUBORDINATES.
   The Budget Officer shall appoint the various clerks and subordinates of his
or her office authorized by the City Council and shall be responsible for the
work performance and fidelity of all persons so appointed.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-150 REPORTS WITH RESPECT TO DUTIES AND ACTIVITIES.
   The Budget Officer shall report to the Mayor and/or the designee of the
Mayor with respect to the Budget Officer's duties and activities.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-151 HOLDING OTHER OFFICE.
   The Budget Officer may hold the office of City Collector and receive
compensation fixed for both the Budget Officer and the City Collector. When the
person appointed to be Budget Officer is also appointed to be the City
Collector, such person's title or designation shall be Collector-Budget
Officer. The Collector-Budget Officer shall report to the Mayor and/or the
designee of the Mayor with respect to the Collector-Budget Officer's duties and
activities as Budget Officer and City Collector.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
§ 1-2-152 INCORPORATION OF STATUTES.
   The provisions of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 through 8-2-9.10 relating
to the position of Budget Officer, preparation of annual budgets and matters
pertaining thereto are hereby incorporated into this Division XIII by
reference, and such amendments thereof that become effective after the passage
of this Division XIII shall be incorporated by reference and shall be
applicable to the Budget Officer, preparation of the annual budget and matters
pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 1113, passed 9-20-1999)
DIVISION XIV:  COMMUNITY RELATIONS COORDINATOR
§ 1-2-160 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the position of Community Relations
Coordinator for the city. The Community Relations Coordinator shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 1609, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 1-2-161 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Community Relations Coordinator shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1609, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 1-2-162 SALARY.
   The Community Relations Coordinator shall receive the salary or compensation
in such amount and payable at such times as may be established in the annual
budget of the city or as otherwise fixed by the City Council. The position of
Community Relations Coordinator shall be a salaried position exempt from the
requirements of wages and hours laws. In addition, it shall not be covered by
any collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. 1609, passed 5-29-2012)
§ 1-2-163 DUTIES.
   The Community Relations Coordinator shall have duties that include planning
and designing programs that will both help the local community and promote the
image of the city in a positive way. The individual will coordinate the
relationship between the city and local businesses, civic groups, schools, and
community groups.
(Ord. 1609, passed 5-29-2012)
DIVISION XV: HUMAN RESOURCE COORDINATOR
§ 1-2-170 OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the position of Human Resource
Coordinator for the city. The Human Resource Coordinator shall be appointed by
the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 1764, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 1-2-171 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Human Resource Coordinator shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
(Ord. 1764, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 1-2-172 SALARY.
   The Human Resource Coordinator shall receive the salary or compensation in
such amount and payable at such times as may be established in the annual
budget of the city or as otherwise fixed by the City Council. The position of
Human Resource Coordinator shall be a salaried position exempt from the
requirements of wages and hours laws. In addition, it shall not be covered by
any collective bargaining agreement.
(Ord. 1764, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 1-2-173 DUTIES.
   The Human Resource Coordinator shall have duties that include human resource
operations, including planning, reviewing, organizing, analyzing and
implementing a broad range of personnel compliance, contract interpretation and
risk management tasks. The Human Resource Coordinator will work with all
departments, employees, directors, elected officials, attorneys and benefit
specialists.
(Ord. 1764, passed 9-17-2018)
ARTICLE III: SALARIES
Section
   
1-3-1   Salaries of city officials
   
1-3-2   Salaries
§ 1-3-1 SALARIES OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   The compensation of various corporate officials is as follows:
   (A)   Alderman. The salary of an Alderman holding office after April 2007
General Municipal Election shall be $7,200 annually. Thereafter, a 4% annual
increase shall be applied. The salary of an Alderman holding office after the
2017 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of
that year) shall be $10,650 annually. Thereafter, a 1.5% annual increase shall
be applied. The salary of an Alderman holding office after the 2025 General
Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of that year)
shall be $11,820 annually. Thereafter, a 2.5% annual increase shall be applied.
   (B)   Clerk. The salary of the City Clerk holding office after the April
2007 General Municipal Election shall be $9,000 annually. Thereafter, a 4%
annual increase shall be applied. The salary of the City Clerk holding office
after the 2015 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period
in May of that year) shall be $12,315 annually. Thereafter, a 1.5% annual
increase shall be applied. The salary of the City Clerk holding office after
the 2025 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in
May of that year) shall be $14,090 annually. Thereafter, a 2.5% annual increase
shall be applied. The Deputy Clerk shall receive one thirty-sixth of the City
Clerk’s annual salary per meeting attended in the City Clerk’s absence.
   (C)   Mayor.  
      (1)   The salary of the Mayor holding office after the April 2007 General
Municipal Election shall be $9,360 annually. Thereafter, a 4% annual increase
shall be applied. The salary of the Mayor holding office after the 2015 General
Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of that year)
shall be $16,000 annually. Thereafter, a 1.5% annual increase shall be applied.
The salary of the Mayor holding office after the 2025 General Municipal
Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of that year) shall be
$18,300 annually. Thereafter, a 2.5% annual increase shall be applied.
      (2)   The Mayor shall also receive for his or her services as Liquor
Commissioner an annual salary of $1,000.
   (D)   Treasurer. The salary of the City Treasurer holding office after the
April 2007 General Municipal Election shall be $6,000 annually. Thereafter, a
4% annual increase shall be applied. The salary of the City Treasurer holding
office after the 2015 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay
period in May of that year) shall be $8,215 annually. Thereafter, a 1.5% annual
increase shall be applied. The salary of the City Treasurer holding office
after the 2025 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period
in May of that year) shall be $9,400 annually. Thereafter, a 2.5% annual
increase shall be applied.
   (E)   Special City Council and utility meetings. Any Alderman, City Clerk or
Mayor attending a special City Council meeting or utility meeting shall be paid
one thirty-sixth of his or her annual salary.
   (F)   Public hearings.  Any Alderman, City Clerk or Mayor attending a public
hearing shall be paid one thirty-sixth of his or her annual salary. The City
Clerk and the Mayor shall be paid only $50 per meeting after the 2015 General
Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of that year).
The Aldermen shall be paid only $50 per meeting after the 2017 General
Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of that year).
   (G)   Committee/business meetings. The chairman of a committee shall receive
$50 per committee/ business meeting, and committee members shall receive $35
per committee/business meeting actually attended, provided that no member shall
be paid for more than 12 committee/business meetings per quarter. Following the
2025 General Municipal Election (commencing with the first pay period in May of
that year), the chairman of a committee shall receive $100 per committee/
business meeting, and committee members shall receive $75 per committee/
business meeting actually attended, provided that no member shall be paid for
more than 12 committee/business meetings per quarter.
   (H)   Generally.
      (1)   The Mayor and city officials shall be entitled to reimbursement for
actual expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties in
compliance with the Local Government Travel Expense Control Act and the city's
Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Policy.
      (2)   Any city official who is required to take off work because of city
business, shall be reimbursed for their time by the city, provided the request
is approved by the Mayor or City Council. Reimbursement shall not exceed $200
per day.
(1993 Code, § 1-3-1) (Ord. 763, passed 4-18-1988; Am. Ord. 948, passed 1-23-
1995; Am. Ord. 1670, passed 9-15-2014; Am. Ord. 1863, passed 10-17-2022)
§ 1-3-2 SALARIES.
   (A)   Elected. No salary or compensation of any elected municipal officer
who is elected for a definite term of office shall be increased or diminished
during such term.
   (B)   Salaries. The salaries for elected officials shall be established at
least two months prior to the general election for such office.
   (C)   Appointed. No salary or compensation of any appointed official who is
appointed for a definite term of office shall be decreased during such term,
but may be increased.
   (D)   The salary of appointed officials and employees may be established in
the appropriation ordinance or annual budget. The salary of elected officials
must be established in an ordinance other than the appropriation ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 1-2-31)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-13-1
ARTICLE IV: WARD DESCRIPTIONS
Section
   
1-4-1   Formation of wards
   
1-4-2   Division into wards
   
1-4-3   Election of Aldermen
   
1-4-4   Redistricting
   
1-4-5   Redistricting after annexation
   
1-4-6   Validation of actions
§ 1-4-1 FORMATION OF WARDS.
   In the formation of wards, the number of inhabitants of the City of
Waterloo, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as “city”, immediately preceding
the division of the city into wards shall be as nearly equal in population, and
the wards shall be of as compact and contiguous territory, as practicable.
Wards shall be created in a manner so that, as far as practicable, no precinct
shall be divided between two or more wards.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-1) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
§ 1-4-2 DIVISION INTO WARDS.
   The city shall have one-half as many wards as the total number of Aldermen
to which the city is entitled. The City Council, from time to time, shall
divide the city into that number of wards. The number of Aldermen for the city
is fixed at eight at this time, and the number of wards for the city is fixed
at four at this time, and the boundaries for each ward of the city shall
henceforth be as follows:
   (A)   Ward I. Ward I shall include all that part of the city lying within
the area enclosed by a line beginning at the intersection of the westerly
boundary line of the city and a line which is an extension of the centerline of
Veterans Drive, thence east along said line and said centerline of Veterans
Drive and extending along a line which is an easterly extension of said
centerline to its intersection with the centerline of Main Street, thence south
along the centerline of Main Street to the centerline of Third Street, thence
east along the centerline of Third Street and an extension thereof to the
centerline of Rogers Street, thence north along the centerline of Rogers Street
and the extension of said centerline to the northern boundary line of the city
and including all of the territory of the city lying north of the point of
beginning and west of the point of ending previously described.
   (B)   Ward II. Ward II shall include all that part of the city lying within
the area enclosed by a line beginning at the westerly boundary line of the city
and the centerline of Park Street (Illinois Route 156), thence easterly along
the centerline of Park Street to the centerline of Church Street, thence south
along the centerline of Church Street to its connection with the centerline of
Kasey Lane, thence easterly along the centerline of Kasey Lane to its
connection with the centerline of Brittany Lane, thence south along the
centerline of Brittany Lane until it makes an easterly turn of approximately
90º and thence along an extension of said centerline of Brittany Lane to its
intersection with the centerline of Market Street, thence south along the
centerline of Market Street to the most southerly boundary line of the city
east of Market Street, thence easterly to the most easterly boundary line of
the city, thence northerly to the centerline of Legion Drive (Old Red Bud
Road), thence along the centerline of Legion Drive until its intersection with
the centerline of Hartman Street, thence west along the centerline of Hartman
Street to its intersection with the centerline of Market Street, thence north
along the centerline of Market Street to its intersection with the centerline
of Third Street, thence east along the centerline of Third Street, to its
intersection with the centerline of Main Street, thence north along the
centerline of Main Street to a line which is an extension of the centerline of
Veteran's Drive, thence west along said line to the centerline of Veteran's
Drive and thence continuing west along the centerline of Veteran's Drive and
continuing west along an extension of the centerline of Veteran's Drive to the
western boundary line of the city.
   (C)   Ward III. Ward III shall include all that part of the city lying
within and west and south of a line beginning at the intersection of the
westerly boundary line of the city and the centerline of Park Street (Illinois
Route 156), thence east along the centerline of Park Street to the centerline
of Church Street, thence south along the centerline of Church Street to its
connection with the centerline of Kasey Lane, thence east along the centerline
of Kasey Lane to its connection with the centerline of Brittany Lane, thence
south along the centerline of Brittany Lane until it makes an easterly turn of
approximately 90º, thence along an extension of said centerline of Brittany
Lane to the intersection of the centerline of Market Street, and thence south
along the centerline of Market Street to the most southerly boundary line of
the city west of Market Street.
   (D)   Ward IV. Ward IV shall include all that part of the city lying within
and easterly of a line beginning at a point which is the extension of the
centerline of Rogers Street and an intersecting line which is an extension of a
line that marks the east/west line of the city's most northerly boundary line,
thence south along the extension of the centerline of Rogers Street to the
centerline of Rogers Street, thence south along the centerline of Rogers Street
to the intersection of an extension of the centerline of Third Street, thence
west along said line and along the centerline of Third Street to the
intersection of the centerline of Market Street, thence south along the
centerline of Market Street to its intersection with the centerline of Hartrnan
Street, thence west along the centerline of Hartman Street to the centerline of
Legion Drive to the most easterly boundary line of the city.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-2) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
§ 1-4-3 ELECTION OF ALDERMEN.
   Each ward of this city shall be represented by two Aldermen, who shall
reside in the ward and be elected by the voters of the ward as fixed by
statute.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-3) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
§ 1-4-4 REDISTRICTING.
   (A)   Whenever an official census shows that the city contains more or fewer
wards than it is entitled to, the City Council, by ordinance, shall redistrict
the city into as many wards as the city is entitled to. This redistricting
shall be completed not less than 30 days before the first day set by the
general election law for filing of candidate petitions for the next succeeding
election for city officers. At that election there shall be elected the number
of Aldermen to which the city is entitled, except as provided in division (B).
   (B)   If it appears from any official census that the city has the requisite
number of inhabitants to authorize it to increase the number of Aldermen, the
City Council shall immediately proceed to redistrict the city and shall hold
the next city election in accordance with the new redistricting. At this
election, the Aldermen whose terms of office are not expiring shall be
considered Aldermen for the new wards respectively in which their residences
are situated. If there are two or more Aldermen with terms of office not
expiring and residing in the same ward under the new redistricting, the
Alderman who holds over for that ward shall be determined by lot in the
presence of the City Council, in the manner directed by the Council, and all
other Aldermen shall fill their unexpired terms as Aldermen-at-large. The
Aldermen-at-large, if any, shall have the same powers and duties as all other
aldermen, but upon the expiration of their terms the offices of Aldermen-at-
large shall be abolished.
   (C)   If the redistricting results in one or more wards in which no aldermen
reside whose terms of office have not expired, two Aldermen shall be elected in
accordance with the provisions of the ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-20-25 and 3.1-
20-35.
   (D)   A redistricting ordinance that has decreased the number of wards of
the city because of a decrease in population of the city shall not be effective
if, not less than 60 days before the time fixed for the next succeeding general
municipal election, an official census is officially published that shows that
the city has regained a population that entitles it to the number of wards that
it had just prior to the passage of the last redistricting ordinance.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-4) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
§ 1-4-5 REDISTRICTING AFTER ANNEXATION.
   Redistricting after annexation of territory to the city shall be as follows:
   (A)   If an increase in inhabitant resulting from the annexation of any
territory is sufficient to entitle the city to an increase in the number of
Aldermen, the City Council shall redistrict the city in accordance with §
1-4-4.
   (B)   If such increase in inhabitant is not sufficient to entitle the city
to an increase in the number of Aldermen, the City Council shall make the
annexed territory a part of the ward or wards which it adjoins.
   (C)   Whenever general redistricting occurs, annexed territory need not be
treated as a unit and may be divided as if it had always been a part of the
city.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-5) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
§ 1-4-6 VALIDATION OF ACTIONS.
   After an official census is officially published, if the city is divided
into a greater number of wards and has elected a greater number of Aldermen
than the city is entitled to, the division and election shall, nevertheless, be
valid and all acts, resolutions and ordinances of the City Council, if in other
respects in compliance with law, are valid.
(1993 Code, § 1-4-6) (Ord. 675, passed 4-19-1982; Am. Ord. 1193, passed 8-27-
2001)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMALS
ARTICLE I: DOGS
Section
   
3-1-1   Definitions
   
3-1-2   Dogs to be inoculated and to have name tags affixed to collars
   
3-1-3   Inoculation to be performed by licensed veterinarian; issuance of
certificate
   
3-1-4   Duration of inoculation
   
3-1-5   Specifications for tag
   
3-1-6   Exhibition of certificate upon request
   
3-1-7   Restraint of dogs
   
3-1-8   Impoundment of dogs running at large or unlicensed dogs; citation of
owner or keeper
   
3-1-9   Notice and citation to owner or keeper of impoundment
   
3-1-10   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
3-1-11   Destruction of unredeemed dogs
   
3-1-12   Impoundment of dogs which have bitten persons
   
3-1-13   City to designate pound
   
3-1-14   Disposition of dogs deemed nuisances
   
3-1-15   Duties of Chief of Police and manager of animal shelter relative to
article
   
3-1-16   Dangerous dogs; dogs at large
   
3-1-17   Kennels
   
3-1-18   Exemptions
   
3-1-19   Penalty
§ 3-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article I, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of a leash
of the owner, a  member of the owner’s family or an authorized person. For
purposes of this article, voice control shall not be considered as control.
   BITE. To seize with the teeth or jaws so that the person or animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further includes contact of
saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog which, when either unmuzzled, unleashed,
or unattended by its owner or a member of the owner’s family, approaches any
person or other animal in an apparent attitude of attack; or, a dog that,
without justification, bites a person or other animal.
   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The Department of Agriculture of the State of
Illinois.
   DOG. All members of the animal family Canidae.
   INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. The injection, subcutaneously or otherwise, as
approved by the Department of Agriculture of the State of Illinois of canine
anti-rabic vaccine, approved by the Department of Agriculture.
   OWNER. Any person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has an animal in his or her care, or who acts as its
custodian, feeds, or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied by him or her.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if it
is controlled by a leash, within a vehicle being driven or parked on the
streets, or within the property limits of the owner or keeper.
   STRAY. An animal without known ownership; by lack of collar, leash, or
microchip.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1248, passed 12-23-
2002; Am. Ord. 1381, passed 8-7-2006; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 3-1-2 DOGS TO BE INOCULATED AND TO HAVE NAME TAGS AFFIXED TO COLLARS.
   (A)   Each calendar year, or at such intervals as may hereafter be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture, every owner or keeper of a dog
four months or more of age shall cause such dog to be inoculated against
rabies. Such owner or keeper of such dog shall cause a serially-numbered tag
evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or harness worn by the
dog.
   (B)   Every owner or keeper of a dog, regardless of age, shall cause the dog
to wear a collar or harness and shall affix thereto a metallic or other
suitable tag inscribed with the name, address and phone number, if any, of the
owner or keeper of the dog.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
3-1-19
§ 3-1-3 INOCULATION TO BE PERFORMED BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; ISSUANCE OF
CERTIFICATE. 
   The inoculation of dogs required by §
3-1-2(A) shall be performed by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his or
her profession in this state. Upon performing such inoculation, such
veterinarian shall issue to the owner or keeper a certificate showing such
fact, and shall also deliver to the owner or keeper a metallic or other
suitable tag to be attached to the collar or harness of the dog, which tag
shall also certify to the fact of the inoculation against rabies.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-3) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
3-1-19
§ 3-1-4 DURATION OF INOCULATION.
   The inoculation performed under the provisions of §
3-1-3 shall be effective until the expiration of the calendar year in which the
vaccination was performed, or the expiration of such period of time as may be
promulgated by the Department of Agriculture.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-4) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-5 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TAG.
   The tag issued under the provisions of §
3-1-3 shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Department of
Agriculture.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-5) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-6 EXHIBITION OF CERTIFICATE UPON REQUEST.
   At any reasonable time upon request of any member of the Police Department,
the owner or keeper of any unmuzzled dog shall exhibit his certificate, issued
under the provisions of §
3-1-3, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or controlled by
him or her.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-6) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
3-1-19
§ 3-1-7 RESTRAINT OF DOGS.
   The owner or keeper of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large off the premises of the property
of the owner or keeper, unless the dog is under complete control as defined in
§
3-1-1.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-7) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016) Penalty, see §
3-1-19
§ 3-1-8 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE OR UNLICENSED DOGS; CITATION OF
OWNER OR KEEPER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of such employees and officers of the Police
Department as shall be designated for that purpose by the Chief of Police to
take up and impound in such place as may be designated and set apart for that
purpose, any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city contrary to
any of the provisions of this chapter or other code of the city.
   (B)   When dogs are found running at large or unlicensed and their ownership
is known to the designated employees, such dogs may be impounded at the
discretion of such employees, and the employees may cite the owner of such dog
to answer charges of violation of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-8) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-9 NOTICE AND CITATION TO OWNER OR KEEPER OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   In case of impounding, and where the owner or keeper of such dog is
disclosed by any tax or license tag worn by it, or is otherwise known to the
officers impounding the same, the Police Department shall, at once, give notice
by mail to such owner or keeper, informing him or her of the impounding of his
or her dog, and shall cite the owner or keeper of such dog to answer charges of
violation of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-9) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-10 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   Any dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter, except such as may
have bitten any person as specified in §
3-1-12, shall, unless sooner redeemed, be held for the period of five days in
order to afford opportunity to the owner or keeper thereof to redeem the same.
Any such owner or keeper thereof desiring to redeem his or her impounded dog
shall pay an impounding fee of $30 and also the cost of keeping such dog while
impounded, at the rate of $15 per day.
   (B)   In case such dog has not been inoculated against rabies for the
current year, nor has such dog been microchipped for identification, such owner
shall also advance the fee required to have such dog inoculated and/or
microchipped by a duly authorized licensed veterinarian. No dog shall be
released without having been microchipped and inoculated for the current
calendar year or in accordance with the requirements of the Department of
Agriculture. Upon payment of the required charges, the dog shall thereupon be
released to the owner or keeper.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-10) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-11 DESTRUCTION OF UNREDEEMED DOGS.
   Any impounded dog which shall not be redeemed within five days shall be
humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the pound keeper.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-11) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-12 IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS WHICH HAVE BITTEN PERSONS.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog found to be without current inoculations which shall
have bitten or otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the
skin shall be immediately taken, impounded and kept separated from other dogs
for ten days. If, during that period, such dog develops symptoms of illness, a
veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its condition. If the symptoms
disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of rabies, such dog shall be
destroyed, in such a manner, however, as to preserve intact the head, which
shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the diagnostic laboratory
of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot be safely taken up
and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve the head intact,
which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture.
      (2)   If, at the expiration of the period of ten days, no symptoms of
rabies have developed in such dog so impounded, the same may be redeemed by the
owner upon payment of the redemption fees and charges specified by §
3-1-10; provided, however, that in case any dog so impounded for biting a
person shall have previously bitten any person, such dog shall be humanely
destroyed by the pound keeper. After having been notified that his or her dog
has bitten or otherwise injured any person, the owner or keeper thereof shall
not, under any circumstances, permit such animal to be at large unless securely
muzzled.
   (B)    Any dog found to have current inoculations which shall have bitten or
otherwise injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the skin may be
released for home confinement at the discretion of the Police Officer. Home
confinement shall be in a house, or in a manner which will prohibit it from
biting any person for a period of ten days. If, during that period, such dog
develops symptoms of illness, a veterinarian shall be called to diagnose its
condition. If the symptoms disclosed are such as to indicate the presence of
rabies, such dog shall be destroyed, in such a manner, however, as to preserve
intact the head, which shall thereupon be detached and immediately sent to the
diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. In case such dog cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, it may be shot, care being taken to preserve
the head intact, which shall thereupon be immediately detached and be delivered
to the diagnostic laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. All fees and
cost associated with the testing of the dog are the responsibility of the
owner.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-12) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-13 CITY TO DESIGNATE POUND. 
   The city shall designate a suitable place for the impounding of dogs.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-13) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-14 DISPOSITION OF DOGS DEEMED NUISANCES. 
   Any dog which may, in any manner, continually disturb the quiet of any
person or neighborhood or shall destroy or in any manner injure any animal,
plant, shrub or other property not on the premises of its owner or keeper is
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog shall be taken up and impounded
and may be redeemed or disposed of in the manner provided for under §§
3-1-10 and
3-1-11.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-14) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-15 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE AND MANAGER OF ANIMAL SHELTER RELATIVE TO
ARTICLE. 
   Except as to the regulations concerning inoculation against rabies, the
Chief of Police is charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of this
article.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-15) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-
2016)
§ 3-1-16 DANGEROUS DOGS; DOGS AT LARGE.
   (A)   Dangerous dogs. No person shall own, keep or harbor a dangerous dog
within the city.
   (B)   Dog at large. No dogs are allowed to run at large.
   (C)   Action relating to dangerous dog. A law enforcement officer may take
such actions as such officer deems necessary to restrain or eliminate a
dangerous dog.
(1993 Code, § 3-1-16) (Ord. 517, passed 12-18-1972; Am. Ord. 1248, passed 12-
23-2002; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
3-1-19
§ 3-1-17 KENNELS.
   In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be located closer
than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent residential lot.
(Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 3-1-18 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt from
the restrictions contained in §
3-1-12, provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The attack or injury occurred while the dog was performing duties
as expected; and
      (2)   The dog was and continues to be inoculated against rabies in
accordance with the Illinois Animal Control Act and Monroe County Ordinances
requiring the same.
   (B)   The owner of any dog exempted under division (A) shall provide the
Waterloo Police Department with a description of the dog, its breed, its name,
and any other identifying characteristics requested, and shall notify the
Waterloo Police Department of any change of address.
   (C)   The owner of any sentry dog or guard dog exempted under division (A)
shall keep the Waterloo Police Department advised of the location where the dog
will be stationed.
   (D)   Any dog exempted under division (A), when not under direct control by
leash and muzzle or other recognized control methods, shall be confined in such
a manner as to prevent it from attacking or injuring any person who is
peacefully conducting himself or herself where he or she lawfully may be.
(Ord. 1703, passed 8-15-2016)
§ 3-1-19 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1381, passed 8-7-2006; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009; Am. Ord. 1703,
passed 8-15-2016)
ARTICLE II: ANIMALS GENERALLY
Section
   
3-2-1   Cruelty
   
3-2-2   Dangerous animals
   
3-2-3   Noises
   
3-2-4   Strays
   
3-2-5   Keeping animals
   
3-2-6   Killing any dangerous animals
   
3-2-7   Diseased animals
§ 3-2-1 CRUELTY. 
   No person shall cruelly treat any animal in the city in any way. Any person
who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any animal shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this code.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-1)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 3-2-2 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or vicious animal of any
kind to run at large within the city. Exhibitions or parades of animals which
are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the Chief of Police.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-2)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 3-2-3 NOISES. 
   It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace
by loud noises at any time of the day or night.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-3)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 3-2-4 STRAYS. 
   It shall be unlawful to permit any cattle, horse, swine, sheep, goats or
poultry to run at large in the city. Any such animal running at large in any
public place in the city shall be impounded in the manner provided in §
3-1-8. It shall be further unlawful to picket or tie any such animal in the
streets of the city for the purpose of grazing or feeding.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-4)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 3-2-5 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep any cattle, swine, sheep, goats or bees in the
city, unless they are in a zoned agricultural district.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-5)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 3-2-6 KILLING ANY DANGEROUS ANIMALS. 
   The members of the Police Department or any other person in the city are
authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when necessary for the
protection of any person or property.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-6)
§ 3-2-7 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious disease or an
infectious disease shall be allowed to run at large or to be exposed in any
public place whereby the health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such
diseased animal be shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof,
except under the supervision of the Health Officer.
   (B)   It is hereby made the duty of the Police Chief to secure such
disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises as
to prevent the communication and spread of contagion or infection, except in
cases where the State Veterinarian is empowered to act.
(1993 Code, § 3-2-7)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
CHAPTER 5: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
ARTICLE I: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
5-1-1   Established
   
5-1-2   Membership
   
5-1-3   Term of office
   
5-1-4   Procedure
   
5-1-5   Powers and duties
   
5-1-6   Land subdivision or re-subdivision and the official map
   
5-1-7   Improvements
   
5-1-8   Further purposes
   
5-1-9   Expenditures
§ 5-1-1 ESTABLISHED. 
   A Planning Commission is hereby created under authority of ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, §§ 11-12-4 through 11-12-12.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 5-1-2 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members, said members to be
residents of the city, appointed by the Mayor on the basis of their particular
fitness for their duty on the Planning Commission, and subject to the approval
of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-2)
§ 5-1-3 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of each member shall be three years. Any appointment to
fill a vacancy shall; however, be only for the unexpired term of the member
whose position has become vacant. The members of the Commission shall serve
until their respective successors are appointed and qualified subject to the
following which shall constitute grounds for dismissal by the Mayor:
   (A)   Three consecutive absences without being formally excused by the
Chairman or in the case of the Chairman, by the Mayor; or
   (B)   Six total unexcused absences within a municipal fiscal year.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 750, passed 9-1-1987; Am. Ord. 1436, passed 6-25-
2007)
§ 5-1-4 PROCEDURE. 
   The Planning Commission shall comply with the following procedures:
   (A)   The members of the Planning Commission shall elect a Chairman from one
of their members to serve during the municipal fiscal year.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may adopt rules and regulations of
organization and procedure consistent with the city code, state statutes and
case law.
   (C)   The Secretary shall record and keep written minutes of each meeting. A
copy of the minutes of each meeting shall be submitted to the Zoning and
Subdivision Administrator, the Clerk’s office, the Aldermen, and the Mayor or
his or her designee, within seven days of each Commission meeting. The minutes
of the Commission meetings shall be open at all reasonable times for inspection
by the public.
   (D)   Each Commission member shall receive $100 per meeting, except the
Chairman of the Planning Commission, who shall receive $125 per meeting. Any
member who serves as secretary shall receive an additional $20 per meeting. A
paid secretary, who is not a member of the Planning Commission, may also be
used with the permission of the Mayor and City Council. The paid secretary
shall receive $100 per meeting.
   (E)   All Commission meetings will be held on weekday evenings commencing no
earlier than 7:00 p.m.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 750, passed 9-1-1987; Am. Ord. 1150, passed 7-17-
2000; Am. Ord. 1436, passed 6-25-2007; Am Ord. 1822, passed 4-19-2021)
§ 5-1-5 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council a comprehensive plan for
the present and future development or redevelopment of the city. Such plan may
be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each of
which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan or part thereof
of the city. This plan may include reasonable requirements with reference to
streets, alleys, public grounds and other improvements hereinafter specified.
The plan, as recommended by the Planning Commission and as thereafter adopted
by the city, may be made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land situated
within the corporate limits and contiguous territory not more than one and one-
half miles beyond the corporate limits, and not included in any other
municipality. Such plan may be implemented by ordinances:
      (1)   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and
for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined;
      (2)   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location, width,
course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for public
service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, street lights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
storm water drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and
sewage collection and treatment; and
      (3)   May designate land suitable for annexation to the city and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation.
   (B)   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official comprehensive
plan.
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council, from time to time, plans
for specific improvements in pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   (D)   To give aid to the city officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects and, generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
   (E)   To prepare and recommend to the City Council schemes for regulating or
forbidding structures or activities which may hinder access to solar energy
necessary for the proper functioning of solar energy systems, as defined in
Section 1.2 of The Comprehensive Solar Energy Act of the State of Illinois as
set forth in ILCS Ch. 30, Act 725, § 1.2 and any amendment thereto, or to
recommended changes in such schemes.
   (F)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
article and as otherwise conferred by the City Council and the State of
Illinois.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-5) (Ord. 750, passed 9-1-1987)
§ 5-1-6 LAND SUBDIVISION OR RE-SUBDIVISION AND THE OFFICIAL MAP.
   At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan or one or more geographical or
functional parts, and may include all or any part of the contiguous
unincorporated area within one and one- half miles from the corporate limits of
the city. All requirements for public hearing, filing notice of adoption with
the County Recorder of Deeds and filing of the plan and ordinances, including
the official map with the Clerk, shall be complied with as provided for by law.
No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision presented for record
affecting land within the corporate limits of the city or within contiguous
territory which is not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate
limits shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision
shown thereon provides for standards of design, and standards governing
streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities, street
lights, public grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes and
distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in
conformity with the applicable requirements of the code, including the official
map.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-6)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12
§ 5-1-7 IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall furnish the Planning Commission, for its consideration,
a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The Planning Commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-7)
§ 5-1-8 FURTHER PURPOSES. 
   The Commission shall recommend the boundaries of districts for land use and
shall recommend regulations to the corporate authorities for the following:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along any street, traffic-way, drive, parkway or storm or flood water runoff
channel or basin;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings;
   (D)   To classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industrial,
business, residential and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, area, and of such different classes, according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of the use of lot area, area
of open spaces or other classification, as may be deemed best suited to carry
out the purpose of this section;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts; and
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed under this section.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-8)
§ 5-1-9 EXPENDITURES.
   Expenditures of the Commission shall be at the discretion of the City
Council, and if the Commission shall deem it advisable to secure technical
advice or services, it shall be done upon authority of the City Council and
appropriations by the City Council therefor.
(1993 Code, § 5-1-9)
ARTICLE II: BOARD OF POLICE COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
5-2-1   Board established
   
5-2-2   Appointment
   
5-2-3   Term of office
   
5-2-4   Chairman elected
   
5-2-5   Quorum
   
5-2-6   Oath and bond
   
5-2-7   Conflicting offices
   
5-2-8   Removal from office
   
5-2-9   Employment of Secretary
   
5-2-10   Compensation of Secretary
   
5-2-11   Powers of Board
   
5-2-12   Appointment of Chief
   
5-2-13   Adoption of rules and regulations
   
5-2-14   City Attorney represents Board
   
5-2-15   Application of law
   
5-2-16   Statutes adopted
   
5-2-17   Agreement between police officer and city
§ 5-2-1 BOARD ESTABLISHED. 
   Pursuant to the provisions of and as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-
2.1-1 et seq., for municipalities of a population of at least 5,000 and not
more than 250,000, a Board of Police Commissioners consisting of three persons
is established for the city.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.
§ 5-2-2 APPOINTMENT.
   Within 30 days after this article becomes effective, the Mayor shall appoint
the first members of the Board of Police Commissioners. One of the members
shall be appointed to serve until the end of the then current municipal year,
another to serve until the end of the municipal year next ensuing, and the
third to serve until the municipal year second next ensuing. Every member shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-3 TERM OF OFFICE.
   Subsequent appointments to the Board of Police Commissioners shall be made
by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. Subsequent
appointments shall be for a term of three years and until their respective
successors are appointed and have qualified. No such appointment, however,
shall be made by any Mayor within 30 days before the expiration of his or her
term of office.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-4 CHAIRMAN ELECTED. 
   The members of the Board of Police Commissioners shall elect a Chairman to
serve during the municipal fiscal year.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-5 QUORUM. 
   A majority of the Board of Police Commissioners shall constitute a quorum
for the conduct of all business.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-6 OATH AND BOND.
   The members of the Board shall be considered officers of the city and shall
file an oath and a fidelity bond in such amount as may be required by the
governing body of the city.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-7 CONFLICTING OFFICES.
   No person holding an office of the city shall be a member of the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners or the Secretary thereof. The acceptance of any
such office by a member of the Board shall be treated as a resignation of his
or her office as a member of the Board of Police Commissioners or the Secretary
thereof. No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Police
Commissioners who is related, either by blood or marriage, up to the degree of
first cousin, to any elected official of the city. No more than two members of
the Board shall belong to the same political party existing in the city at the
time of such appointments and as defined in the Election Code, ILCS Ch. 10, Act
5, § 10-2. If only one or no political party exists in the city at the time of
such appointments, then state or national political party affiliation shall be
considered in making such appointments. Party affiliation shall be determined
by affidavit of the person appointed as member of the Board.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-8 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   Members shall not be subject to removal, accept for cause, upon written
charges and after an opportunity to be heard within 30 days in his, her or
their own defense before a regular meeting of the City Council of the city. A
majority vote of the elected members of the City Council of the city shall be
required to remove any such member from office.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-9 EMPLOYMENT OF SECRETARY.
   The Board may employ a Secretary or may designate one of its own members to
act as Secretary. The Secretary:
   (A)   Shall keep the minutes of the Board proceedings;
   (B)   Shall be the custodian of all records pertaining the business of the
Board;
   (C)   Shall keep a record of all examinations held;
   (D)   Shall perform all other duties the Board prescribes; and
   (E)   Shall be custodian of the seal of the Board, if one is adopted, and
the Board is hereby authorized to adopt an official seal and to prescribe the
form thereof by resolution of the Board.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-9) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-10 COMPENSATION OF SECRETARY.
   The Secretary may be paid a reasonable compensation for his or her services,
to be fixed by the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may also
fix the compensation to be paid to the members of the Board, but until the
corporate authorities make provision therefor, the members of the Board shall
serve without compensation.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-10) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-11 POWERS OF BOARD.
   (A)   The Board of Police Commissioners shall have the powers set forth in
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq., including the following:
      (1)   To appoint all officers and members of the Police Department,
except the Chief of Police;
      (2)   To make such promotions as it deems appropriate, except with regard
to the office of Chief of Police;
      (3)   To discipline, suspend, remove or discharge officers and members of
the Police Department, except the Chief of Police; and
      (4)   To conduct hearings on charges brought against a member of the
Police Department, except the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the Chief of
Police from suspending, without pay, a member of the Police Department for a
period of not more than five calendar days, which right is hereby granted to
the Chief of Police. Notice of any such suspension shall be given to the Board
of Police Commissioners and shall be subject to review as provided in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-7.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-11) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-12 APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city with the
consent of the City Council, and may be removed or discharged by the Mayor of
the city upon confirmation by the City Council as set forth in ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 10-2.1-4. All other full-time police officers shall be appointed,
promoted, removed or discharged in the manner provided in ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5,
§§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-12) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.
§ 5-2-13 ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Board of Police Commissioners shall adopt and publish rules and
regulations to carry out the purpose of ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5, and to
govern appointments and removals in accordance with the provisions of said
statute. Such rules and regulations shall be adopted according to the procedure
required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5. The Board of Police Commissioners,
from time to time, may revise such rules and regulations in the same manner as
for the adoption of the original rules and regulations. No such rule or
regulation shall be made by the Board of Police Commissioners to govern the
operation of the Police Department or the conduct of its members.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-13) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5
§ 5-2-14 CITY ATTORNEY REPRESENTS BOARD.
   The City Attorney shall represent the Board and shall handle prosecutions
before the Board.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-14) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-15 APPLICATION OF LAW.
   This article shall apply only to full-time policemen of the city and not to
any other personnel of any kind or description.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-15) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-2-16 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq., as amended, is hereby incorporated
in and made part of this law, the same as if recited herein verbatim. In case
of any conflict between the provisions of this article and said division, said
division shall control. If and as said division is amended, from time to time,
the provisions of this article in conflict with said division as a result of
said amendment shall be construed as having been amended by the amendment to
the division and shall be read, construed and applied in accordance with the
provisions of said amended division.
(1993 Code, § 5-2-16) (Ord. 837, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.
§ 5-2-17 AGREEMENT BETWEEN POLICE OFFICER AND CITY.
   The Board of Police Commissioners of the city is hereby authorized to adopt
a rule to require that an applicant for a police officer position with the city
make, execute and deliver to the city an agreement that binds the applicant, if
the applicant is hired as a police officer for the city, to reimburse the city
for all costs and expenses incurred by the city with respect to such police
officer's hiring, employment and training if he or she fails to obtain his or
her final certification from the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and
Standards Board or if, because of his or her fault or neglect, he or she fails
to complete three years of service with the Police Department after his or her
field training as a city police officer.
(Ord. 1106, passed 8-2-1999)
ARTICLE III: POLICE PENSION BOARD
Section
   
5-3-1   Board established
   
5-3-2   Definitions
   
5-3-3   Pension funds
   
5-3-4   Tax levy
   
5-3-5   Employee contribution
   
5-3-6   Board membership
   
5-3-7   Vacancies and resignations
   
5-3-8   Compensation
   
5-3-9   Quarterly meetings
   
5-3-10   Duties of Vice-President and Assistant Secretary
   
5-3-11   Powers and duties
   
5-3-12   Annual statements
   
5-3-13   Report to City Council
   
5-3-14   Illinois Pension Code adopted
§ 5-3-1 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and as required by Article 3 of the Illinois
Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., for municipalities with a
population of 5,000 or more but less than 500,000 inhabitants, a Police Pension
Fund is established for the benefit of police officers of the Police Department
and their surviving spouses, children and certain other dependents, as provided
in the aforesaid Illinois Pension Code.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-1) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
§ 5-3-2 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms used in this article have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund of the city.
   POLICE OFFICER. Any person who:
      (1)   Is appointed to the police force of the Police Department and sworn
and commissioned to perform police duties;
      (2)   Is found upon examination of a duly licensed physician or
physicians selected by the Board to be physically and mentally fit to perform
the duties of a police officer; and
       (3)   Within three months after receiving his or her first appointment,
and if reappointed within three months thereafter, makes written application to
the Board to come under the provisions of this article and ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5,
§§ 3-101 et seq.
   SALARY. The annual salary, including longevity, attached to the police
officer's rank, as established by the city's appropriation ordinance, including
any compensation for overtime which is included in the salary so established,
but excluding any overtime pay, holiday pay, bonus pay, merit pay or any other
cash benefit not included in salary so established.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-3 PENSION FUNDS.
   The police pension fund shall consist of the following moneys which shall be
set apart by the Treasurer of the city.
   (A)   All moneys derived from the taxes levied under ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§
3-101 et seq.;
   (B)   Contributions by police officers under ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-125.1;
   (C)   All moneys accumulated by the city under any previous legislation
establishing a fund for the benefit of disabled or retired police officers; and
   (D)   Donations, gifts or other transfers authorized by ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5,
§§ 3-101 et seq.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-4 TAX LEVY.
   The City Council shall annually levy and tax upon all the taxable property
of the city at the rate on the dollar which will produce an amount which, when
added to the deductions from the salaries or wages of police officers, and
revenues available from other sources, will equal a sum sufficient to meet the
annual requirements of the police pension fund. The annual requirements to be
provided by such tax levy are equal to: (1) the normal cost of the pension fund
for the year involved; plus (2) the amount necessary to amortize the fund's
unfunded accrued liabilities as provided by ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127. The
tax shall be levied and collected in the same manner as the general taxes of
the city, and in addition to all other taxes now or hereafter authorized to be
levied upon all property within the city.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-5 EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTION.
   Each police officer shall contribute to the police pension fund 9% of his or
her salary, which shall be deducted monthly. However, the Chief of Police may
elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund rather than in
the fund created under this article. Such election shall be irrevocable and
shall be filed in writing with the Board.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-5) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-6 BOARD MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A board of five members shall constitute a Board of Trustees to
administer the police pension fund and to designate the beneficiaries thereof.
The Board shall be known as the “Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund
of the City of Waterloo”.
   (B)   Two members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, one of whom
shall serve for one year, beginning on the second Tuesday in May after the
municipality comes within the provisions of Article 3 of the Illinois Pension
Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq. The other appointed member shall
serve for two years beginning on the same date. The successors to each of the
foregoing trustees shall serve for two years each or until their successors are
appointed and qualified.
   (C)   Two members of the Board shall be elected from the active participants
of the pension fund by such active participants. One member of the Board shall
be elected by and from the beneficiaries. The election of these Board Members
shall be held biennially on the third Monday in April, at such place or places
in the city and under the Australian ballot system and such other regulations
as shall be prescribed by the appointed members of the Board.
   (D)   The active pension fund participants shall be entitled to vote only
for the active participant members of the Board. All beneficiaries of legal age
may vote only for the member chosen from among the beneficiaries. No person
shall be entitled to cast more than one ballot at such election. The term of
elected members shall be two years, beginning on the second Tuesday of the
first May after the election.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-6) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
§ 5-3-7 VACANCIES AND RESIGNATIONS.
   Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elective Board
Member, his or her successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election to be called by the Board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular biennial election.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-7) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-8 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall neither receive nor have any right to receive any
salary from the pension fund for services performed as trustees in that office.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-8) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-9 QUARTERLY MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall hold annually regular quarterly meetings in July,
October, January and April and special meetings as called by the President.
   (B)   At the regular July meeting, the Board shall select from its members a
President, Vice-President, Secretary and Assistant Secretary to serve for one
year and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-9) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-10 DUTIES OF VICE-PRESIDENT AND ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Vice-President shall perform the duties of President during any
vacancy in that office or during the President's absence from the city, or if
he or she is by reason of illness or other causes unable to perform the duties
of the office.
   (B)   The Assistant Secretary shall act for the Secretary whenever necessary
to discharge the functions of such office.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-10) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the powers and duties provided under Article 3 of the
Illinois Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., including those
powers and duties stated in ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-132 through 3-140.1 of
said Code.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-11) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-12 ANNUAL STATEMENTS.
   On the second Tuesday in May annually, the Treasurer and all other officials
of the city who had the custody of any pension funds herein provided shall make
a sworn statement to the Pension Board and to the Mayor and City Council of all
moneys received and paid out by them on account of the pension fund during the
year, and of the amount of funds then on hand and owing to the pension fund.
All surplus then remaining with any official other than the Treasurer shall be
paid to the Treasurer of the city. Upon demand of the Pension Board, any
official shall furnish a statement relative to the official method of
collection or handling of the pension funds. All books and records of that
official shall be produced at any time by him or her for examination and
inspection by the Board.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-12) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-13 REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL. 
   (A)   The Board shall report to the City Council on the condition of the
pension fund. The report shall be made prior to the City Council meeting held
for the levying of taxes for the year for which the report is made.
   (B)   The Board shall certify:
      (1)   The assets in its custody at such time;
      (2)   The estimated receipts during the next succeeding calendar year
from deductions from the salaries of police officers and from all other
sources; and
      (3)   The estimated amount required during said calendar year to pay all
pensions and other obligations provided in this article and in Article 3 of the
Illinois Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq., and to meet the
annual requirements of the fund as provided in §
5-3-4.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-13) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
§ 5-3-14 ILLINOIS PENSION CODE ADOPTED.
   Article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et
seq., is incorporated by reference herein. In case of any conflict between this
Article III and said statute, the applicable provisions of said statute shall
control, and as said code is amended from time to time, the provisions hereof,
insofar as any variance may develop therefrom, if any, shall automatically be
construed so as to conform therewith.
(1993 Code, § 5-3-14) (Ord. 836, passed 4-1-1991)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.
ARTICLE IV: CEMETERY MAINTENANCE BOARD
Section
   
5-4-1   Board established
   
5-4-2   Board of Trustees
§ 5-4-1 BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of ILCS Ch. 70, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq., a Cemetery
Maintenance District was created by the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 1628, passed 2-25-2013)
§ 5-4-2 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees shall be appointed and replaced pursuant to ILCS Ch.
70, Act 105, § 3 and ILCS Ch. 70, Act 105, § 4, which are hereby adopted in
their entirety.
(Ord. 1628, passed 2-25-2013)
CHAPTER 6: BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
6-1-1   Adoption of Building Code
   
6-1-2   Additions, insertions, deletions and changes with respect to the
International Building Code 2012
   
6-1-3   Additional sections
§ 6-1-1 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of Waterloo, being marked and designated as the International
Building Code, 2012, including Appendix I (except Section 1105.2) but excluding
other appendices thereof, as published by The International Code Council, Inc.,
be and is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the City of Waterloo in the
State of Illinois for the control of buildings and structures as herein
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said International Building Code is hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this article, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §§
6-1-2 and
6-1-3 of this article.
(1993 Code, § 6-1-1) (Am. Ord. 1134, passed 4-3-2000; Am. Ord. 1243, passed 10-
21-2002; Am. Ord. 1460, passed 1-21-2008; Am. Ord. 1729, passed 7-3-2017)
§ 6-1-2 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES WITH RESPECT TO THE
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE 2012.
   The following sections of the International Building Code, 2012 for the
purpose of this article, are hereby revised in their entirety to read as
follows:
   a.   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Building Code of
the City of Waterloo, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   b.   101.4.1 Gas. The provisions of the National Fuel Gas Code and NFPA 54,
as they may be amended from time to time, shall apply to the installation of
gas piping from the point of delivery, gas appliances and related accessories
as covered in this code. These requirements apply to gas piping systems
extending from the point of delivery to the inlet connections of appliances and
the installation and operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and
related accessories.
   c.   101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the Illinois State Plumbing Code,
as it may be amended from time to time, shall apply to the installation,
alterations, repairs and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a
water or sewage system and all aspects of a medical gas system. The provisions
of the International Private Sewage Disposal Code shall apply to private sewage
disposal systems.
   d.   101.4.4 Property maintenance. The 2021 International Property
Maintenance Code and the provisions of
Chapter 29 of the City of Waterloo, IL Revised Code of Ordinances shall apply
to existing structures and premises; equipment and facilities; light,
ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life and fire safety hazards;
responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants; and occupancy of existing
premises and structures.
   e.   101.4.6 Energy is deleted. Ordinance No. 1534 is rescinded.
   f.   103.2 Appointment. The Building Official shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the City of Waterloo with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Building Official shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   g.   105.2 Work exempt from permit. Section 105.2 shall remain as stated,
except the following items under the subheading of “Building” are amended to
read in their entirety:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 50
square feet (4.64 m2).
      6.   Patios, sidewalks and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm)
above grade and not over any basement or story below and which are not part of
an accessible route.
   h.   105.2 (7) is deleted.
   i.   109.2 Schedule of permit fees. On buildings, structures, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee
for each permit shall be paid as required, in accordance with the schedule as
established by
Chapter 12 of the City Code of the City of Waterloo, Illinois as amended from
time to time, or other ordinances of the city.
   j.   113.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions
or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the application and
interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby created a Board of
Appeals.
   k.   113.3 Membership of Board. The Board of Appeals shall consist of three
members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council
as follows: one for three years, one for two years, and one for one year.
Thereafter, each member shall serve for three years and until a successor has
been appointed and has qualified. The term of office of members shall commence
on May 1. If initial members of the Board of Appeals are appointed prior to May
1, 2008, their term of office shall include the period prior to May 1, 2008 and
thereafter be measured from that date as if their term of office commenced on
May 1, 2008.
   l.   1404.1 General. Except when matching existing materials, material used
for the construction or remodeling of exterior walls shall comply with the
provisions of this section subject to the following:
      The following building materials, and none others except as provided for
in “C” of this section, shall be allowed in the construction of the exterior
walls (except gables) of buildings and structures constructed and installed in
all Business Zoned Districts and all Industrial Zoned Districts:
      A.   The exterior walls of a building or structure that are visible from
a public right-of-way shall be constructed of one or more of the following: (a)
brick; (b) brick veneer; (c) natural or cultured stone; (d) marble; (e)
granite; (f) glass; (g) concrete tilt up panel with a brick or stone form
liner; (h) exterior insulation finish system (EIFS); or (i) painted or dyed
architectural cement blocks (split block).
      B.   The exterior walls of a building or structure that are not visible
from a public right-of-way shall be constructed of one or more of the
following: (a) any of the materials listed in the proceeding subparagraph “A”
of this Section 6-1-2 m. of the Building Regulations Code, and/or (b) stucco,
or (c) painted cement block.”.
      C.   Upon recommendation by the Planning Committee, materials similar to
those listed in “A” and “B” above may be approved for use by the City Council
on a case-by-case basis.
   m.   1405.11.1 Attachment (siding). Exterior metal veneer shall be securely
attached to the supporting masonry or framing members with corrosion-resistant
fastenings, metal ties or by other approved devices or methods. The spacing of
the fastenings or ties shall not exceed 24 inches (610 mm) either vertically or
horizontally, but where units exceed 4 square feet (0.4 m2) in area there shall
be not less than four attachments per unit. The metal attachments shall have a
cross-sectional area not less than provided by W 1.7 wire. Such attachments and
their supports shall be capable of resisting a horizontal force in accordance
with the wind loads specified in Section 1609, but in no case less than 20 psf
(0.958 kg/m2). No metal veneer utilizing exposed fasteners will be permitted.
   n.   1508.4 Metal roof panels. The installation of metal roof panels shall
comply with the provisions of this section. Roof panels utilizing exposed
fasteners will not be permitted. Upon recommendation by the Planning Committee,
roof panels utilizing exposed fasteners may be approved for use by the City
Council on a case-by-case basis.
   o.   1612 is deleted.
   p.   2701.1 Scope. The provisions of the National Electrical Code, as it may
be amended from time to time, shall apply to the installation of electrical
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and appurtenances thereto.
   q.   Sections 2702.1 through 2702.3 are deleted.
   r.   3412.2 Applicability. Structures existing prior to the effective date
of this article, in which there is work involving additions, alterations or
changes of occupancy, shall be made to conform to the requirements of this
section or the provisions of Sections 3403 through 3409.
(1993 Code, § 6-1-2) (Am. Ord. 1134, passed 4-3-2000; Am. Ord. 1243, passed 10-
21-2002; Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. 1446, passed 8-6-2007; Am.
Ord. 1460, passed 1-21-2008; Am. Ord. 1469, passed 3-17-2008; Am. Ord. 1534,
passed 10-26-2009; Am. Ord. 1639, passed 5-6-2013; Am. Ord. 1723, passed 4-3-
2017; Am. Ord. 1729, passed 7-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1751, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord.
1800, passed 6-1-2020; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 6-1-3 ADDITIONAL SECTIONS.
   Additional sections are hereby added to the International Building Code,
2006, for the purpose of this article as follows:
   a.   103.4 Other Offices. When duly appointed, the Building Official may
hold the office of Zoning Administrator created by
Chapter 40 of the city code (Zoning Code) and Subdivision Administrator created
by
Chapter 34 of the city code (Subdivision Code)
   b.   103.5 Reference to Building Official. The term “Building Official”
shall include the term “Code Official” as appears in other ordinances and vice
versa.
   c.   106.1.1.2 Preparation of Construction Documents. Construction documents
for structures other than a single-family residence, a duplex or their
accessory buildings, must be prepared by a design professional registered in
the State of Illinois. The documents must bear the signature and seal of the
design professional.
   d.   112.4 Qualifications. The Board of Appeals shall consist of three
individuals who have the capacity to interpret and understand this code.
   e.   112.5 Alternate Members. The Mayor shall appoint one alternate member
with the advice and consent of the City Council, who shall be called by the
Board Chairman to hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a
member. The alternate member shall possess the same qualifications required for
Board membership, and shall be appointed for three years and until a successor
has been appointed and qualified.
   f.   112.6 Chairman. The Chairman of the Board shall be selected by the
members of the board on an annual basis.
   g.   112.7 Secretary. The Board of Appeals shall designate a qualified clerk
to serve as Secretary to the Board. The Secretary shall file a detailed record
of all proceedings in the office of the Building Official.
   h.   112.8 Notice of Meeting. The Board shall meet upon notice from the
Chairman, or majority of Board, within ten days of the filing of an appeal, or
at stated periodic meetings.
   i.   112.9 Open hearing. All hearings before the Board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the Building Official
and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
112.9.1 Procedure. The Board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the Secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence but shall
mandate that only relevant information be received.
   j.   112.10 Postponed Hearing. When two members are not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   k.   112.11 Board Decision. The Board may modify or reverse the decision of
the Building Official by a concurring vote of two members.
   l.   112.12 Court Review. A party to the appeal, including the City of
Waterloo, shall have the right to appeal the Circuit Court of the Twentieth
Judicial Circuit of Illinois for Monroe County with respect to any decision.
Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by law
following the filing of the decision in the office of the Building Official.
   m.   112.13 Exclusive Jurisdiction. The Board of Appeals shall have
exclusive jurisdiction with respect to appeal of decisions of the Building
Official, and the Zoning Board of Appeals created by
Chapter 40 of the city code shall have no jurisdiction to hear an appeal of a
decision of the Building Official with respect to a decision based upon the
Building Code of the City of Waterloo, Illinois.
(1993 Code, § 6-1-3) (Am. Ord. 1134, passed 4-3-2000; Am. Ord. 1243, passed 10-
21-2002; Am. Ord. 1460, passed 1-21-2008)
ARTICLE II: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
6-2-1   Adoption of Illinois Plumbing Code
   
6-2-2   Violation; penalties
   
6-2-3   Unlawful continuance
§ 6-2-1 ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS PLUMBING CODE.
   That a certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Waterloo, Illinois, being marked and designated as
“The Illinois Plumbing Code”, as adopted by the Illinois Department of Public
Health, effective February 18, 2004, is hereby adopted as the Plumbing Code of
the City of Waterloo, Illinois and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of said Illinois Plumbing Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this article, hereinafter
referred to as “this code”. (Ord. 1126, passed 1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 1364, passed
1-3-2006)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2
§ 6-2-2 VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct,
alter or repair a building or structure in violation of this code, or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1126, passed 1-24-2000; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 6-2-3 UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   Any person who shall continue any work in or about a structure after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than $500 or more than $750.
(Ord. 1126, passed 1-24-2000)
ARTICLE III: SATELLITE DISH CODE
Section
   
6-3-1   Definitions
   
6-3-2   Permit required
   
6-3-3   Application for permit; fee; property owners
   
6-3-4   Location of earth station
   
6-3-5   Penalty
   
6-3-6   Appeals
§ 6-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Article III, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISH. That part of a satellite signal-receiving antenna characteristically
shaped like a parabolic reflector that directs satellite signals to the
feedhorn.
   DISH-TYPE SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAE. May also be referred to as
“earth stations” or “ground stations”. One or a combination of two or more of
the following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extraterrestrial sources.
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) is a special amplifier that boosts the
strength of a satellite signal without contributing “noise” or interference.
      (3)   A coaxial cable and a low voltage control cable, the purpose of
which is to carry or transmit said signals to a receiver.
   FEEDHORN. A device on a dish that directs satellite signals to the low-noise
amplifier.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass and
dissipate.
   RECEIVER. A receiver that is similar to the receiver in a normal television,
but which also allows a dish owner to receive satellite signals.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 6-3-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, trust or other legal entity shall
construct an earth station with a diameter greater than three feet without a
permit, nor shall construction commence before a permit is issued in accordance
with this article.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985) Penalty, see §
6-3-5
§ 6-3-3 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE; PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The owner or occupant, with written permission from the owner of any
lot, premises or parcel of land with the city who desires to construct an earth
station on said lot, premises or land parcel must first obtain a permit to do
so from the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall issue such permit, provided the
applicant submits a written application upon forms provided and approved by the
Zoning Enforcement Officer, along with a plot plan of the lot, premises or land
parcel attached, showing the exact location and dimensions of the proposed
earth station; a description of the kind of earth station proposed; the exact
location and dimensions of all buildings or structures; construction plans and
specifications prepared showing the elevation of the proposed earth station
upon completion. Each application shall specify, among other things, the name
and address of the owner of the real estate; the applicant; and the person or
the name of the company to be permitted to construct the proposed earth
station.
   (C)   The applicant shall present documentation of the possession of any
license or permit required by any federal, state or local agency pertaining to
the ownership, construction or operation of an earth station.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit with each application the sum of $50, which
represents the permit fee. The permit fee shall cover the costs of reviewing
the construction plans and specifications, inspecting the final construction
and processing the application.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 6-3-4 LOCATION OF EARTH STATION.
   (A)   Ground-mounted.
      (1)   No earth station shall be constructed in any front or side yard,
but shall be constructed to the rear of the residence or main structure.
      (2)   No earth station, including its concrete base slab or other
substructure, shall be constructed without appropriate evergreen landscaping to
reasonably conceal said earth station from view, and the planting shall be
completed before final approval by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (3)   An earth station shall not exceed a grade height of 12 feet.
      (4)   Wiring between an earth station and a receiver shall be placed at
least four inches beneath the surface of the ground.
      (5)   Such earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of
75 miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (7)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110 volt maximum power design
and be encased in protective guards.
      (8)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
      (9)   No earth station shall be constructed upon the rooftop of any
garage, residential dwelling, church, school, apartment building, hospital or
any other commercial building or structure unless the provisions of division
(B) of this section for roof- mounted provisions are satisfied.
   (B)   Roof-mounted.
      (1)   Earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the roof of a primary
or accessory structure, as defined in the Building Code, and shall not be
mounted upon appurtenances such as chimneys, towers, trees, poles or spires.
      (2)   An earth station shall not exceed a height of more than three feet
above the roof upon which it is mounted.
      (3)   An earth station dish shall not exceed three feet in diameter.
      (4)   An earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 85
miles per hour without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (5)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110 volts maximum power
design and be encased in protective guards.
      (6)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985) Penalty, see §
6-3-5
§ 6-3-5 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-
2009)
§ 6-3-6 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall be made to
the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 6-3-6) (Ord. 712, passed 6-3-1985)
ARTICLE IV: STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR
WATER AND SEWER MAIN CONSTRUCTION CODE
Section
   
6-4-1   Adoption of standard specifications for water and sewer main
construction
   
6-4-2   Violation; penalties
   
6-4-3   Unlawful continuance
   
6-4-4   Copy to be filed with City Clerk
§ 6-4-1 ADOPTION OF STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS FOR WATER AND SEWER MAIN
CONSTRUCTION.
   Divisions II through V, inclusive, of a certain document, one copy of which
is on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Waterloo, Illinois,
being marked and designated as “Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction in Illinois”, as prepared by the Illinois Society of
Professional Engineers, Illinois Municipal League, The Associated General
Contractors of Illinois and Underground Contractors Association, designated May
1996 Fifth Edition, are hereby adopted as Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Code of the City of Waterloo, Illinois, which shall be known,
referred to and cited as Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Code,
and each of the provisions, conditions and terms of said divisions of the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Code in Illinois are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
article, hereinafter referred to as “this code”.
(Ord. 1177, passed 3-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2
§ 6-4-2 VIOLATION; PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or entity who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements of this code or who shall
construct, alter or repair any water or sewer mains or ancillary facilities in
violation of this code, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of the city code, shall be subject to the general penalty described
in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1177, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 6-4-3 UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   Any person, firm or entity who shall continue any work in or about the
construction, alteration or repair of water or sewer main and ancillary
facilities, except such work as the person, firm or entity is directed to
perform to remove a violation of this Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Code, shall be, upon conviction, punished as set forth in §
6-4-2 of this code.
(Ord. 1177, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 6-4-4 COPY TO BE FILED WITH CITY CLERK.
   One copy of the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois, as prepared by the Illinois Society of Professional
Engineers, Illinois Municipal League, The Associated General Contractors of
Illinois and Underground Contractors Association, designated May 1996, Fifth
Edition, shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk of the City of
Waterloo, Illinois and kept available for public use, inspection and
examination.
(Ord. 1177, passed 3-19-2001)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2
ARTICLE V: RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS
Section
   
6-5-1   Adoption of Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings
   
6-5-2   Additions, insertions, deletions and changes with respect to the
International Residential Code 2006
   
6-5-3   Additional sections
§ 6-5-1 ADOPTION OF RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City of Waterloo, being marked and designated as the International
Residential Code, 2006 including Appendix G, but excluding other appendices
thereof, as published by The International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby
adopted as the Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings of the City of
Waterloo in the State of Illinois for the control of buildings and structures
as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said International Residential Code is hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this article, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §§
6-5-2 and
6-5-3 of this article.
(Ord. 1242, passed 10-21-2002; Am. Ord. 1460, passed 1-21-2008)
§ 6-5-2 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, DELETIONS AND CHANGES WITH RESPECT TO THE
INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE 2006.
   The following sections of the International Residential Code, 2006, for the
purpose of this article, are hereby revised to read as follows:
   a.   R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the Residential Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings of the City of Waterloo, and shall be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this code”.
   b.   102.4 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and standards
referenced in this code shall be considered part of the requirements of this
code to the prescribed extent of each such reference. Where differences occur
between provisions of this code and referenced codes and standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. The foregoing notwithstanding, all
references to the following codes and standards are changed to the following:
      1.   R102.4.1 Electrical. All references to ICC Electrical Code shall be
changed to National Electrical Code.
      2.   R102.4.2 Gas. All references to International Fuel Gas Code shall be
changed to National Fuel Gas Code.
      3.   R102.4.3 Plumbing. All references to International Plumbing Code
shall be changed to Illinois State Plumbing Code.
      4.   R102.4.4 Property Maintenance. All references to International
Property Maintenance Code shall be changed to
Chapter 29 of the Revised Code of the City of Waterloo.
      5.   R102.4.5 Fire Prevention. All references to The International Fire
Code are deleted.
      6.   R102.4.6 Energy. The Illinois Residential Energy Code shall apply to
all residential new construction.
   c.   R103.2 Appointment. The Building Official. shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the City of Waterloo with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Building Official shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.
   d.   R105.2 Work exempt from permit. Section R105.2 shall remain as stated,
except the following items under the subheading of “Building” are amended to
read as follows:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures, provided the floor area
does not exceed 50 square feet (4.64 m2).
      2.   Fences
      5.   Patios, sidewalks, and driveways not more than 30 inches (762 mm)
above adjacent grade and not over any basement or story below.
   e.   R108.2 Schedule of permit fees. On buildings, structures, electrical,
gas, mechanical, and plumbing systems or alterations requiring a permit, a fee
for each permit shall be paid as required in accordance with the schedule as
established by Chapter 12 of the City Code of the City of Waterloo, Illinois,
as amended from time to time or other city ordinances.
   f.   R112.1 General. In order to hear and decide appeals of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Building Official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a Board of Appeals.
   g.   R112.3 Membership of Board. The Board of Appeals shall consist of three
members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council
as follows: one for three years, one for two years, and one for one year.
Thereafter, each member shall serve for three years and until a successor has
been appointed and has qualified. The term of office of members shall commence
on May 1. If initial members of the Board of Appeals are appointed prior to May
1, 2008, their term of office shall include the period prior to May 1, 2008 and
thereafter be measured from that date as if their term of office commenced on
May 1, 2008.
   h.   Table R301.2(1):
Snow load                         20 psf
Wind speed                        90 mph
Seismic design category           D0
Weathering                        Severe
Frost line depth                  36 inches
Termite                           Moderate to heavy
Winter design temp                6 degrees
Ice Barrier Underlayment Required No
                                  Per
Flood hazards                     Chapter 14, Floodplain Regulations of the
                                  City's Ordinances.
Air Freezing Index                500
Mean Annual Temperature           50
 
   i.   R405.1 Concrete or masonry foundations. Drains shall be provided around
all concrete or masonry foundations that retain earth and enclose habitable or
usable spaces located below grade. Drainage tiles, gravel or crushed stone
drains, perforated pipe or other approved systems or materials shall be
installed at or below the area to be protected and shall discharge by gravity
or mechanical means into an approved drainage system. Gravel or crushed stone
drains shall extend at least 1 foot (305 mm) beyond the outside edge of the
footing and 6 inches (152 mm) above the top of the footing and be covered with
an approved filter membrane material. The top of open joints of drain tiles
shall be protected with strips of building paper, and the drainage tiles or
perforated pipe shall be placed on a minimum of 2 inches (51 mm) of washed
gravel or crushed rock at least one sieve size larger than the tile joint
opening or perforation and covered with not less than 6 inches (152 mm) of the
same material. In cases where waterproofing is not required by Section R406.2,
drains shall be placed both inside and outside the foundation.
Exception: A drainage system is not required when the foundation is installed
on well-drained ground or sand gravel mixture soils according to the Unified
Soil Classification System, Group I Soils, as detailed in Table R405.2.1.
   j.   R507 Exterior decks. The provisions of the Design for Code Acceptance 6
(DCA6) Prescriptive Residential Wood Deck Construction Guide, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall apply to the construction of residential
decks.
   k.   R703.1 General. Exterior walls shall provide the building with a
weather-resistant exterior wall envelope. The exterior wall envelope shall
include flashing as described in Section R703.8. The exterior wall envelope
shall be designed and constructed in a manner that prevents the accumulation of
water within the wall assembly by providing a water-resistant barrier behind
the exterior veneer as required by Section R703.2 and a means of draining water
that enters the assembly to the exterior. Protection against condensation in
the exterior wall assembly shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 11 of
this code. No metal veneer utilizing exposed fasteners will be permitted.
   l.   R905.1 Roof covering application. Roof coverings shall be applied in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this section and the manufacture’s
installation instructions. Unless otherwise specified in this section, roof
coverings shall be installed to resist the component and cladding loads
specified in Table R301.2(2), adjusted for height and exposure in accordance
with Table R301.2(3). Roof panels utilizing exposed fasteners will not be
permitted.
(Ord. 1242, passed 10-21-2002; Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-3-2004; Am. Ord. 1460,
passed 1-21- 2008; Am. Ord. 1544, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 1751, passed 2-20-
2018; Am. Ord. 1882, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 6-5-3 ADDITIONAL SECTIONS.
   Additional sections are hereby added to the International Residential Code,
2006, for the purpose of this ordinance as follows:
   a.   R103.4 Other offices. When duly appointed, the Building Official may
hold the office of Zoning Administrator created by
Chapter 40 of the city code (Zoning Code) and Subdivision Administrator created
by
Chapter 34 of the city code (Subdivision Code).
   b.   R103.5 Reference to Building Official. The term "Building Official"
shall include the term "Code Official" as it appears in other ordinances and
vice versa.
   c.   R112.5 Qualifications. The Board of Appeals shall consist of three
individuals who have the capacity to interpret and understand this code.
   d.   R112.6 Alternate members. The Mayor shall appoint one alternate member
with the advice and consent of the City Council, who shall be called by the
Board Chairman to hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a
member. The alternate member shall possess the same qualifications required for
Board membership, and shall be appointed for three years and until a successor
has been appointed and qualified.
   e.   R112.7 Chairman. The Chairman of the Board shall be selected by the
members of the board on an annual basis.
   f.   R112.8 Secretary. The Board of Appeals shall designate a qualified
clerk to serve as Secretary to the Board. The Secretary shall file a detailed
record of all proceedings in the office of the Building Official.
   g.   R112.9 Notice of meeting. The Board shall meet upon notice from the
Chairman or majority of the Board, within ten days of the filing of an appeal,
or at stated periodic meetings.
   h.   R112.10 Open hearing. All hearings before the Board shall be open to
the public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the Building
Official and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
R112.10.1 Procedure. The Board shall adopt and make available to the public,
through the Secretary, procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence but shall
mandate that only relevant information be received.
   i.   R112.11 Postponed hearing. When two members are not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   j.   R112.12 Board decision. The Board may modify or reverse the decision of
the Building Official by a concurring vote of two members.
   k.   R112.13 Court review. A party to the appeal, including the City of
Waterloo, shall have the right to appeal the Circuit Court of the Twentieth
Judicial Circuit of Illinois for Monroe County with respect to any decision.
Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by law
following the filing of the decision in the office of the Building Official.
   l.   R112.14 Exclusive jurisdiction. The Board of Appeals shall have
exclusive jurisdiction with respect to appeal of decisions of the Building
Official, and the Zoning Board of Appeals created by
Chapter 40 of the city code shall have no jurisdiction to hear an appeal of a
decision of the Building Official with respect to a decision based upon the
Building Code of the City of Waterloo, Illinois.
   m.   R803.2.4 Particle board. In no case shall particle board (OSB), yellow
pine or chipboard be used for roof sheathing. Roof sheathing must be ½ inch fir
plywood grade or better, or the ZIP System roof panels with the ZIP System
tape.
(Ord. 1242, passed 10-21-2002; Am. Ord. 1460, passed 1-21-2008; Am. Ord. 1614,
passed 7-23-2012)
ARTICLE VI: LOCK BOX ENTRY SYSTEM
Section
   
6-6-1   General
   
6-6-2   New construction
   
6-6-3   Type of lock box
   
6-6-4   Keys
   
6-6-5   Implementation
   
6-6-6   Penalty
§ 6-6-1 GENERAL.
   Hereafter, any new buildings or structures shall be equipped with a rapid
entry key lock box system at or near the main entrance or such other location
as shall be required by the Fire Chief.
   (A)   All buildings within the city having an automatic alarm system, or
equipped with an automatic fire suppression system, except one and two family
dwellings;
   (B)   Commercial and industrial structures identified by the Chief of the
city's Fire Protection District as difficult to access during emergencies;
   (C)   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and that have a common corridor for access to rental
units;
   (D)   All high-rise buildings, such as structures having floors at or above
50 feet above ground level; and
   (E)   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008) Penalty, see §
6-6-6
§ 6-6-2 NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All newly constructed structures subject to this chapter shall have the key
lock entry box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008) Penalty, see §
6-6-6
§ 6-6-3 TYPE OF LOCK BOX.
   The Fire Chief of the city's Fire Protection District and the Code
Enforcement Official shall jointly designate the type of key lock box entry
system to be implemented within the city and shall have the authority to
require all buildings and structures subject to this chapter to use the
designated system.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 6-6-4 KEYS.
   The owner or operator of a building or structure required to have the key
lock box entry system shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will
allow for access to the building or structure.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008) Penalty, see §
6-6-6
§ 6-6-5 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The Fire Chief and the Code Enforcement Official shall be authorized to
implement the rules and regulations for use of the lock box entry system.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008)
§ 6-6-6 PENALTY.
   Any person who owns or operates a structure required to have a key lock box
entry system, pursuant to this chapter, who violates the same shall be subject
to payment of a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $750. Each day on
which a violation occurs or continues shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 1479, passed 6-16-2008)
ARTICLE VII: CANOPIES AND AWNINGS
Section
   
6-7-1   Permits
   
6-7-2   Construction
   
6-7-3   Height above walk
§ 6-7-1 PERMITS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or maintain any canopy or awning
over any sidewalk or other public way in the city without having first
obtaining a permit therefor as herein provided. Permits for such canopies or
awnings shall be issued by the City Council, and shall designate the location
of the proposed structure. The party erecting the canopy or awning shall fully
indemnify the city from any liability therefor.
(Ord. 1552, passed 8-24-2009)
§ 6-7-2 CONSTRUCTION.
   All canopies and awnings extending over any public sidewalk or other public
place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will be no danger
of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from any other cause.
(Ord. 1552, passed 8-24-2009)
§ 6-7-3 HEIGHT ABOVE WALK.
   The lowest part of any such canopy or awning, or any support thereof, that
extends over any public way shall be at least eight feet above the level of the
walk or public way over which it extends; but no suchawning or canopy shall be
maintained over any public way used by vehicles.
(Ord. 1552, passed 8-24-2009)
ARTICLE VIII: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
6-8-1   Purpose and scope
   
6-8-2   Definitions
   
6-8-3   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
6-8-4   Dispute resolution
   
6-8-5   Indemnification
   
6-8-6   Insurance
   
6-8-7   Master pole attachment agreement
§ 6-8-1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this article is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585.
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This article supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws.  In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
article, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
article to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-2 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms defined in this section have the meaning provided in Section 10 of
the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (PA 100-0585).
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT.  Any person who submits an application and is a wireless
provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to an authority for a
permit to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   AUTHORITY. A unit of local government that has jurisdiction and control for
use of public rights-of-way as provided by the Illinois Highway Code for
placements within public rights-of-way or has zoning or land use control for
placements not within public rights-of-way.
   AUTHORITY UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by an authority in
public rights-of-way.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either (i) listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for
listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been
delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section
VI.D.1.a.i through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement
codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or (ii) designated as a locally
landmarked building, property, site, or historic district by an ordinance
adopted by the authority pursuant to a preservation program that meets the
requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the preservation
program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by an authority to perform an
action or initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization, including an authority.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include authority-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications: (i) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no
more than six cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has
exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within
an imaginary enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and (ii) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following
types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of
equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements, telecommunications
demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment, power transfer
switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of power and
other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
(i) equipment associated with wireless communications; and (ii) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS FACILITY does
not include: (i) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or (ii) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the authority.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-3 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
paragraph (4) regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any
zone, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for
commercial or industrial use.
   (B)    Permit required.  An applicant is required to obtain one or more
permits to collocate a small wireless facility. An application is received and
processed, and permits are issued subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
authority utility poles for future public safety uses or for the city's
electric utility uses, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the authority utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall be required to
provide the following information when seeking a permit to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for an authority utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment types and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with paragraph (5),
Requirements, to the best of the applicant's knowledge.
      (3)   Alternate placements. With respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the city may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet of
the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the right
to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and the
alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or additional
material costs as determined by the applicant.
   The city may require the applicant to provide a written certification
describing the property rights, technical limits or material cost reasons the
alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      (4)   Height limitations. The city may limit the maximum height of a
small wireless facility to ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
   Subject to any applicable waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for an exception or variance and does not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances, the city may limit the height of new
or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated to the higher of:
         (a)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
         (b)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (5)   Requirements.
         (a)   The wireless provider's operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance
with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall take all reasonable
steps necessary to correct and eliminate the interference, including, but not
limited to, powering down the small wireless facility and later powering up the
small wireless facility for intermittent testing, if necessary.
   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not making a good faith effort to
remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (b)   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are
imposed by a contract between the city and a private property owner that
concern design or construction standards applicable to utility poles and
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
         (c)   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing
requirements in applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of
ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way if the requirements
include a waiver, zoning, or other process that addresses wireless provider
requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit granting of such
exceptions or variances.
         (d)   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or
regulations concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the
installation of new or the modification of existing utility poles in a right-
of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a waiver, zoning, or
other process that addresses requests to install such new utility poles or
modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement of
utility poles.
         (e)   The wireless provider shall comply with generally applicable
standards that are consistent with PA 100-0585 and adopted by an authority for
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, reasonable and nondiscriminatory wiring and cabling requirements, grounding
requirements, utility pole extension requirements, and signage limitations; and
shall comply with reasonable and nondiscriminatory requirements that are
consistent with PA 100-0585 and adopted by an authority regulating the
location, size, surface area and height of small wireless facilities, or the
abandonment and removal of small wireless facilities.
         (f)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility
may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
   For purposes of this subparagraph (f), the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
         (g)   The wireless provider shall comply with the applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
         (h)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment, and aesthetic requirements that are identified by the
city in an ordinance, written policy adopted by the governing board of the
authority, a comprehensive plan, or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
         (i)   Subject to the subsection titled Permitted Use, and except for
facilities excluded from evaluation for effects on historic properties under 47
CFR 1.1307(a)(4), the City requires reasonable, technically feasible and non-
discriminatory design or concealment measures in a historic district or
historic landmark.
   Any such design or concealment measures, including restrictions on a
specific category of poles, may not have the effect of prohibiting any
provider's technology. Such design and concealment measures shall not be
considered a part of the small wireless facility for purposes of the size
restrictions of a small wireless facility.
   This paragraph may not be construed to limit an authority's enforcement of
historic preservation in conformance with the requirements adopted pursuant to
the Illinois State Agency Historic Resources Preservation Act or the National
Historic Preservation Act of 1966, 54 U.S.C. Section 300101 et seq., and the
regulations adopted to implement those laws.
      (6)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the city must determine whether the application is complete and
notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the city must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the city fails to provide notification to the applicant within 30
days after all documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in the
city's permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      (7)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 90 days.
   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the city in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75 days after the
submission of a completed application.
   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the city's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this article.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days.
   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant must notify the city in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 105 days after
the submission of a completed application.
   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the deemed approved notice
shall not preclude the city's denial of the permit request within the time
limits as provided under this article.
         (c)   The city shall approve an application unless the application
does not meet the requirements of this article.
   If the city determines that applicable codes, local code provisions or
regulations that concern public safety, or the requirements of paragraph (5)
require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before
the requested collocation, approval may be conditioned on the replacement of
the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of the provider.
   The city must document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial was based, and send
the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the city denies an
application.
   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city and resubmit
the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial is sent to
the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city shall
approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the applicant
resubmits the application or it is deemed approved.
   However, the applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the resubmitted application.
   Any subsequent review shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the
denial. However, this revised application cure does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
      (8)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   The express agreement in writing by both the applicant and the
city; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (9)   Consolidated applications. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of a single authority shall be
allowed, at the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and
receive a single permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the city may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (10)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for an authority utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
      (11)   Duration of permits. The duration of a permit shall be for a
period of not less than five years, and the permit shall be renewed for
equivalent durations unless the city makes a finding that the small wireless
facilities or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the
applicable codes or local code provisions or regulations in paragraphs (5) and
(7)c.
   If PA 100-0585 is repealed as provided in Section 90 of the Act, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable authority code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (12)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information, and notices by personal delivery or as
otherwise required by the city.
   The city may require that permits, supporting information, and notices be
submitted by personal delivery at the city's designated place of business, by
regular mail postmarked on the date due, or by any other commonly used means,
including electronic mail, as required by the city.
      (13)   Application fees.  Application fees are subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   The city will charge an application fee of (up to) $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure and (up to) $350 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application to collocate more than one small
wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
         (b)   The city will charge an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
         (c)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section must be accompanied by the
required application fee.
         (d)   The city shall not require an application, approval, or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
            1.   routine maintenance;
            2.   the replacement of wireless facilities with wireless
facilities that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the
wireless provider notifies the city at least 10 days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with the requirements of (2)d under the subsection titled
Application Requirements; or
            3.   the installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are
strung between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety
codes.
   However, the city may require a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures.
      (14)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this article authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
         (a)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or
controlled by the city or another unit of local government that is not located
within rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support
structure without the consent of the property owner;
         (b)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation, or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
         (c)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-
7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in Section 16-102 of
the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this article do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed, and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act.
   For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given
to that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
article shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement (a) to
obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or (b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this article.
      (15)   Existing agreements grandfathered for existing locations.
Agreements between the city and wireless providers that relate to the
collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on authority utility poles, that are
in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities
collocated on the city's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination provisions.
      (16)   Annual recurring rate.  The city may charge an annual recurring
rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct, and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider's use of space on the city
utility pole.
   Rates for collocation on city utility poles located outside of a right-of-
way are not subject to these limitations.
   In any controversy concerning the appropriateness of a cost-based rate for a
city utility pole located within a right-of-way, the city shall have the burden
of proving that the rate does not exceed the actual, direct, and reasonable
costs for the applicant's proposed use of the authority utility pole.
      (17)   Aerial facilities. For city utility poles that support aerial
facilities used to provide communications services or electric service,
wireless providers shall comply with the process for make-ready work under 47
U.S.C. 224 and its implementing regulations.
      (18)   Abandonment. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned and the owner of
the facility must remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after
receipt of written notice from the city notifying the owner of the abandonment.
   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the owner. If
the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days of such notice, the
city may remove or cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of
its pole attachment agreement for authority utility poles or through whatever
actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and
cost recovery.
   The city may require a wireless provider to provide written notice to the
city if it sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the
jurisdictional boundary of the city. Such notice shall include the name and
contact information of the new wireless provider.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-4 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   A circuit court has jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the
Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute
concerning rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on authority
utility poles within the right-of-way, the authority shall allow the
collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than
$200 per year per authority utility pole, with rates to be determined upon
final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-5 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
authority improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this article and PA 100-0585. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
city or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the city with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-6 INSURANCE.
   The city may require the wireless provider to carry, at the wireless
provider's own cost and expense, the following insurance: (i) property
insurance for its property's replacement cost against all risks; (ii) workers'
compensation insurance, as required by law; or (iii) commercial general
liability insurance with respect to its activities on the authority
improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits consistent
with its requirements of other users of authority improvements or rights-of-
way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
   The city may require a wireless provider to include the city as an
additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial
general liability policy as reasonably required by the city.
(Ord. 1760, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 6-8-7 MASTER POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and scope.  The City of Waterloo, Illinois hereby adopts a
Master Pole Attachment Agreement in the following words and numbers:
MASTER POLE ATTACHMENT AGREEMENT
   This Master Pole Attachment Agreement (Agreement) made this _____day of
____________, ______, between the City of Waterloo, Illinois with its principal
offices located at _______________________________, hereinafter designated
LICENSOR and ________________________________________________, with its
principal offices at _______________________________________________,
hereinafter designated LICENSEE. LICENSOR and LICENSEE are at times
collectively referred to hereinafter as the "Parties" or individually as the
"Party."
WITNESSETH
   WHEREAS, LICENSOR is the owner, of certain utility poles, wireless support
structures, and/or real property, which are located within the geographic area
of a license to provide wireless services licensed by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) to LICENSEE; and
   WHEREAS, LICENSEE desires to install, maintain and operate small wireless
communications equipment in and/or upon certain of LICENSOR's utility poles,
wireless support structures, facilities, and/or real property; and
   WHEREAS, LICENSOR and LICENSEE desire to enter into this Agreement to define
the general terms and conditions which would govern their relationship with
respect to particular sites at which LICENSOR may wish to permit LICENSEE to
install, maintain and operate communications equipment as hereinafter set
forth; and
   WHEREAS, the LICENSOR and LICENSEE intend to promote the expansion of
communications services in a manner consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, the Illinois Cable and Video Competition Act, the
Illinois Telephone Company Act, the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Middle-
Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act, 35 ILCS 636/5-1, et seq. and Federal Communication
Commission Regulations; and
   WHEREAS, LICENSOR and LICENSEE acknowledge that they will enter into a
License Supplement (Supplement), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit
A, with respect to any particular location or site which the Parties agree to
license; and
   WHEREAS, the Parties acknowledge that different related entities may operate
or conduct the business of LICENSEE in different geographic areas and as a
result, each Supplement may be signed by LICENSEE affiliated entities as
further described herein, as appropriate based upon the entity holding the FCC
license in the subject geographic location.
   NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and
intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
1)   PREMISES. Pursuant to all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement
and the applicable Supplement, LICENSOR agrees to license to LICENSEE that
certain space on or upon LICENSOR's utility poles, and/or wireless support
structures as more fully described in each Supplement to be executed by the
Parties hereinafter referred to as the "Premises", for the installation,
operation and maintenance of communications equipment, including antenna(s);
together with the non-exclusive right of ingress and egress from a public
right-of-way, seven (7) days a week, twenty four (24) hours a day, over the
Property (as defined below) and to and from the Premises for the purpose of
installation, operation and maintenance of LICENSEE's communications equipment.
The LICENSOR's utility poles, wireless support structures and other poles and
towers are hereinafter referred to as "Pole" and the entirety of the LICENSOR's
property is hereinafter referred to as "Property". In the event there are not
sufficient electric and telephone, cable or fiber utility sources located at
the Premises or on the Property, LICENSOR agrees to grant LICENSEE the right to
install such utilities on, over and/or under the Property and to the Premises
as necessary for LICENSEE to operate its communications facility, provided the
location of such utilities shall be designated by LICENSOR.
2)   PERMIT APPLICATION. For each small wireless facility, LICENSEE shall
submit an application to LICENSOR for permit that includes:
   a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for LICENSOR'S utility pole or
wireless support structure, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural
engineer, as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering
Practice Act of 1989;
   b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or utility
pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its immediate
surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each proposed
small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility poles or
structures would be installed;
   c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
   d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all other
wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
   e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each small
wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
   f)   Certification that the collocation complies with LICENSOR's Small
Wireless Facilities Ordinance requirements, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
   g)   The application fee due.
3)   APPLICATION FEES. Application fees are subject to the following
requirements:
   a)   LICENSEE shall pay an application fee of (up to) $650 for an
application to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure and (up to) $350 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application to collocate more than one small
wireless facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   b)   LICENSEE shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small wireless
facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of a new
utility for such collocation.
   c)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local ordinance,
applications pursuant to this Section must be accompanied by the required
application fee.
   d)   LICENSOR shall not require an application, approval, or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from LICENSEE, for:
      i)   routine maintenance; or
      ii)   the replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if LICENSEE notifies
LICENSOR at least 10 days prior to the planned replacement and includes
equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment consistent with the
requirements of the agreement; or
      iii)   the installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or
replacement of small wireless facilities that are suspended on cables that are
strung between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety
codes.
   However, LICENSOR may require a permit to work within rights-of-way for
activities that affect traffic patterns or require lane closures.
4)   REQUIREMENTS.
   a)   LICENSEE's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications. LICENSEE shall install small wireless facilities of the type
and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment. Unacceptable interference will be
determined by and measured in accordance with industry standards and the FCC's
regulations addressing unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or
any other spectrum licensed by a public safety agency. If a small wireless
facility causes such interference, and LICENSEE has been given written notice
of the interference by the public safety agency, LICENSEE, at its own expense,
shall take all reasonable steps necessary to correct and eliminate the
interference, including, but not limited to, powering down the small wireless
facility and later powering up the small wireless facility for intermittent
testing, if necessary. The LICENSOR may terminate a permit for a small wireless
facility based on such interference if LICENSEE is not making a good faith
effort to remedy the problem in a manner consistent with the abatement and
resolution procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established
by the FCC including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672
through 47 CFR 90.675.
   b)   LICENSEE shall not install devices on the existing utility pole or
wireless support structure that extend beyond 10' of the poles existing height.
   c)   LICENSEE shall install pole mounted equipment at a minimum of 8' feet
from the ground.
   d)   LICENSEE shall be limited to one (1) cabinet or other ground mounted
device for ground mounted installations.
   e)   LICENSEE shall paint antennas, mounting hardware, and other devices to
match or complement the structure upon which they are being mounted.
   f)   LICENSEE shall install landscaping at the base of poles with respect to
any ground equipment installed by Licensor on which devices are being installed
as required by the LICENSOR.
   g)   LICENSEE shall comply with all the terms and conditions of LICENSOR's
Right of Way ordinance in regards to construction of utility facilities.
   h)   LICENSEE shall comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract
between the LICENSOR and a private property owner that concern design or
construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment
located in the right-of-way.
   i)   LICENSEE shall comply with applicable spacing requirements in
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-
way. LICENSEE shall comply with (local code provisions or regulations)
concerning undergrounding requirements.
   j)   LICENSEE shall comply with (local code provisions or regulations) for
construction and public safety in the rights-of-way, including, but not limited
to, wiring and cabling requirements, grounding requirements, utility pole
extension requirements, and signage limitations; and shall comply with
reasonable and nondiscriminatory requirements that are consistent with PA 100-
0585 and adopted by LICENSOR regulating the location, size, surface area and
height of small wireless facilities, or the abandonment and removal of small
wireless facilities.
   k)   LICENSEE shall not collocate small wireless facilities within the
communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the
pole on LICENSOR utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system. However, the antenna and support equipment of the small
wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the LICENSOR
utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if
LICENSEE complies with (applicable codes) for work involving the top of the
pole. For purposes of this subparagraph (f), the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
   l)   LICENSEE shall comply with the applicable codes and local code
provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   m)   LICENSEE shall utilize the following design specifications for every
pole:
      Small Wireless Facility Pole Design Requirements
      MANUFACTURER: Valmont
      HEIGHT: Limited to 10 feet above the tallest utility pole within 300 feet
of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure that is
within the same right-of-way, or 45 feet above ground level.
      CONSTRUCTION: A hot-rolled, commercial quality carbon-steel tubing with a
minimum yield of 55,000 psi. Wall thickness of 11-gauge (0.1196") or 7-gauge
(0.1793) Shafts are one-piece construction with full length, longitudinal weld.
Round in cross-section having a uniform taper. Anchor base shall be constructed
of hot-rolled carbon steel that conforms to ATSM A36 that meets or exceeds a
minimum yield strength of 36,000 psi. Handholes shall be reinforced and include
cover plate and stainless-steel fasteners. A lighting fixture must be provided.
This lighting fixture must match nearby lighting fixtures and be mounted at the
same height as nearby lighting fixtures.
      FINISH: Hot dip zinc galvanizing is required.
5)   APPLICATION PROCESS. LICENSOR shall process applications as follows:
   a)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an existing
utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed by LICENSOR and
deemed approved if LICENSOR fails to approve or deny the application within 90
days. However, if LICENSEE intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, LICENSEE must notify LICENSOR in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75 days after the
submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed approved on
the latter of the 90th day after submission of the complete application or the
10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by LICENSOR. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude LICENSOR's denial of
the permit request within the time limits as provided under Ordinance No.1760.
   b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that includes the
installation of a new utility pole shall be processed and deemed approved if
LICENSOR fails to approve or deny the application within 120 days. However, if
LICENSEE applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed
approved basis, the applicant must notify LICENSOR in writing of its intention
to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 105 days after the
submission of a completed application. The permit shall be deemed approved on
the latter of the 120th day after submission of the complete application or the
10th day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by LICENSOR. The
receipt of the deemed approved notice shall not preclude LICENSOR's denial of
the permit request within the time limits as provided under Ordinance No.1760.
   c)   LICENSOR shall approve an application unless the application does not
meet the requirements of Ordinance No.1760.
   d)   If LICENSOR determines that applicable codes, local code provisions or
regulations that concern public safety, or the Requirements of paragraph (3)
require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced before
the requested collocation, approval may be conditioned on the replacement of
the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of LICENSEE.
LICENSOR must document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial was based, and send
the documentation to LICENSEE on or before the day LICENSOR denies an
application. LICENSEE may cure the deficiencies identified by LICENSOR and
resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. LICENSOR
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after LICENSEE
resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. However, LICENSEE must
notify LICENSOR in writing of its intention to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted with the
resubmitted application. Any subsequent review shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application cure does
not apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
   e)   TOLLING. The time period for applications may be further tolled by the
express agreement in writing by both LICENSOR and LICENSEE; or a local, State
or federal disaster declaration or similar emergency that causes the delay.
   f)   CONSOLIDATED APPLICATIONS. A LICENSEE seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of LICENSOR shall be allowed, at
LICENSEE's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single
permit for the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the
collocations each involve substantially the same type of small wireless
facility and substantially the same type of structure. If an application
includes multiple small wireless facilities, LICENSOR may remove small wireless
facility collocations from the application and treat separately small wireless
facility collocations for which incomplete information has been provided or
that do not qualify for consolidated treatment or that are denied. LICENSOR may
issue separate permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated
application.
6)   COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE. Collocation for which a permit is granted
shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
LICENSOR and LICENSEE agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-
ready work for a LICENSOR utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or
backhaul availability at the site, provided LICENSEE has made a timely request
within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or
backhaul services, and the additional time to complete installation does not
exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless LICENSOR grants an extension in writing to the LICENSEE.
7)   DURATION OF PERMITS. The duration of a permit shall be for a period of
(not less than 5 years), and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless LICENSOR makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable codes or
local code provisions or regulations in Ordinance No.1760. If P.A. 100-0585 is
repealed as provided in Section 90 of the Act, renewals of permits shall be
subject to the LICENSOR's code provisions or regulations in effect at the time
of renewal.
8)   EXTENSIONS. Each Supplement may be extended for three (3) additional five
(5) year terms unless either party terminates it at the end of the then current
term by giving the other party written notice of the intent to terminate at
least three (3) months prior to the end of the then current term. The initial
term and all extensions under a Supplement shall be collectively referred to
herein as the "Term". Notwithstanding anything herein, after the expiration of
this Agreement, its terms and conditions shall survive and govern with respect
to any remaining Supplements in effect until their expiration or termination.
Furthermore, LICENSOR agrees that the exercise of its right to terminate
pursuant to this paragraph 8 shall not be effective, if exercised by LICENSOR,
until the beginning with the second five (5) year extension term (upon year 10
of the Term).
9)   RENTAL. Each Supplement shall be effective as of the date of execution by
both Parties (the "Effective Date"), provided, however, the initial term of
each Supplement shall be for five (5) years and shall commence on the first day
of the month following the day that LICENSEE commences installation of the
equipment on the Premises (the "Commencement Date") at which time rental
payments shall commence and be due at a total annual rental as set forth in the
Supplement, to be paid in advance annually on the Commencement Date and on each
anniversary of it in advance, to the LICENSOR in the Supplement (unless LESSOR
otherwise designates another payee and provides notice to LICENSEE). LICENSOR
and LICENSEE acknowledge and agree that the initial rental payment for each
Supplement shall not actually be sent by LICENSEE until thirty (30) days after
the Commencement Date. LICENSOR and LICENSEE agree that they shall acknowledge
in writing the Commencement Date of each Supplement. Rental for the use of any
poles pursuant to this Agreement, shall be an annual fee of $200.00 per each
wireless facility which LICENSEE attaches to LICENSOR's pole. Thereafter, Rent
will be due at each annual anniversary of the "Commencement Date" of the
applicable Supplement. Upon agreement of the Parties, LICENSEE may pay rent by
electronic funds transfer and in such event, LICENSOR agrees to provide to
LICENSEE bank routing information for such purpose upon request of LICENSEE.
10)   ABANDONMENT. A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned and the LICENSEE
must remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of written
notice from LICENSOR notifying LICENSEE of the abandonment.
   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by LICENSOR to the LICENSEE at the last known address of LICENSEE.
If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days of such notice,
LICENSOR may remove or cause the removal of such facility and charge said costs
to the LICENSEE.
   LICENSEE shall provide written notice to LICENSOR of any sale or transfer of
small wireless facilities not less than 30 days prior to such transfer and said
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider.
11)   MEANS OF SUBMITTING APPLICATIONS. Applicants shall submit applications,
supporting information, and notices by personal delivery or as otherwise
required by the LICENSOR from time to time.
12)   GENERAL RESTRICTIONS. In the event LICENSOR, in its reasonable discretion
deems it necessary to remove, relocate or replace a Pole it shall give notice
to LICENSEE as soon as possible, LICENSEE shall notify LICENSOR at least thirty
(30) days prior of the need to remove or relocate its communications equipment.
In such event, Licensor shall provide options for alternative locations for
Licensee relocation of equipment which shall be in a mutually agreeable
location ("Alternative Premises"). LICENSEE shall be solely responsible for all
costs related to the relocation of its communications equipment to the
Alternative Premises. In the event that a suitable Alternative Premises cannot
be identified, LICENSEE may terminate the applicable Supplement. In the event
of an emergency, which for purposes of this Agreement shall be considered any
imminent threat to health, safety and welfare of the public, LICENSOR must
provide as much notice as reasonably practical under the circumstances.
LICENSEE may terminate this Agreement by giving written notice to the other
party specifying the date of termination, such notice to be given not less than
one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date specified therein.
13)   ELECTRICAL. LICENSEE shall be permitted to connect its equipment to
necessary electrical and telephone service, at LICENSEE's expense. LICENSEE
shall attempt to coordinate with utility companies to provide separate service
to LICENSEE's equipment for LICENSEE use. In the event that LICENSEE can obtain
separate electrical service with a separate meter measuring usage, the LICENSEE
shall pay the utility directly for its power consumption, if billed directly by
the utility. In the event that separate electrical service is not possible or
practical under the circumstances, LICENSEE may use existing service, at
LICENSEE's expense, upon the reasonable approval of LICENSOR. In the event that
LICENSEE uses existing utility service at an individual Premises, the Parties
agree to either: (i) attempt to have a sub-meter installed, at LICENSEE's
expense, which shall monitor LICENSEE's utility usage (with a reading and
subsequent bill for usage delivered to LICENSEE by either the applicable
utility company or LICENSOR); or (ii) provide for an additional fee in the
applicable Supplement which shall cover LICENSEE's utility usage. The Parties
agree to reflect power usage and measurement issues in each applicable
Supplement.
14)   LICENSEE shall be permitted at any time during the Term of each
Supplement, to install, maintain and/or provide access to and use of, as
necessary (during any power interruption at the Premises), a temporary power
source, and all related equipment and appurtenances within the Premises, or
elsewhere on the Property in such locations as reasonably approved by LICENSOR.
LICENSEE shall be permitted to connect the temporary power source to its
equipment on the Premises in areas and manner approved by Licensor.
15)   USE; GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS. LICENSEE shall use the Premises for the
purpose of constructing, maintaining, repairing and operating small wireless
communications equipment and uses incidental thereto. LICENSEE shall have the
right to replace, repair, equipment, antennas and/or conduits or any portion
thereof and the frequencies over which the equipment operates, in conformance
with the original Supplement. It is understood and agreed that LICENSEE's
ability to use the Premises is contingent upon its obtaining after the
execution date of each Supplement all of the certificates, permits and other
approvals (collectively the "Governmental Approvals") that may be required by
any Federal, State or Local authorities as well as a satisfactory building
structural analysis which will permit LICENSEE use of the Premises as set forth
above. In the event that (i) any of such applications for such Governmental
Approvals should be finally rejected; (ii) any Governmental Approval issued to
LICENSEE is canceled, expires, lapses, or is otherwise withdrawn or terminated
by governmental authority; and (iii) LICENSEE determines that such Governmental
Approvals may not be obtained in a timely manner, LICENSEE shall have the right
to terminate the applicable Supplement. Notice of LICENSEE's exercise of its
right to terminate shall be given to LICENSOR in accordance with the notice
provisions set forth in Paragraph 16 and shall be effective upon the mailing of
such notice by LICENSEE, or upon such later date as designated by LICENSEE. All
rentals paid to said termination date shall be retained by LICENSOR. Upon such
termination, the applicable Supplement shall be of no further force or effect
except to the extent of the representations, warranties and indemnities made by
each Party to the other thereunder. Otherwise, the LICENSEE shall have no
further obligations for the payment of rent to LICENSOR for the terminated
Supplement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Paragraph 9,
LICENSEE shall continue to be liable for all rental payments to the LICENSOR
until all equipment is removed from the Property.
16)   INSURANCE. LICENSEE shall carry, at LICENSEE's own cost and expense, the
following insurance: (i) property insurance for its property's replacement cost
against all risks; (ii) workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
(iii) commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities on
LICENSOR improvements or rights-of-way to afford (Insert minimum protection
limits consistent with requirements of other users of LICENSOR improvements or
rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
Example: LICENSEE agrees that at its own cost and expense, LICENSEE will
maintain general liability insurance with limits not less than two million
dollars ($2,000,000) for injury to or death of one or more persons in any one
occurrence and two million dollars $2,000,000 for damage or destruction to
property in any one occurrence.) LICENSEE shall include LICENSOR as an
additional insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide
certification and documentation of inclusion of LICENSOR in a commercial
general liability policy.
17)   INDEMNIFICATION. LICENSOR shall indemnify and hold LICENSEE harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
LICENSOR's improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
LICENSEE or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this Ordinance and PA 100-0585. LICENSEE has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of LICENSOR or its employees or
agents. LICENSEE hereby further waives any claims that LICENSEE may have
against the LICENSOR with respect to consequential, incidental, or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
18)   REMOVAL AT END OF TERM. LICENSEE shall, upon expiration of the Term, or
within ninety (90) days after any earlier termination of a Supplement, remove
its equipment, conduits, fixtures and all personal property and restore the
Premises to its original condition, reasonable wear and tear and casualty
damage not caused by LICENSEE excepted. LICENSOR agrees and acknowledges that
all of the equipment, conduits, fixtures and personal property of LICENSEE
shall remain the personal property of LICENSEE and LICENSEE shall have the
right to remove the same at any time during the Term, whether or not said items
are considered fixtures and attachments to real property under applicable laws.
If such time for removal causes LICENSEE to remain on the Premises after
termination of the Supplement, LICENSEE shall pay rent at the then existing
monthly rate or on the existing monthly pro-rata basis if based upon a longer
payment term, until such time as the removal of the antenna structure, fixtures
and all personal property are completed.
19)   RIGHTS UPON SALE. Should LICENSOR, at any time during the Term of any
Supplement decide to sell or transfer all or any part of the Property such sale
or grant of an easement or interest therein shall be under and subject to the
Supplement and any such purchaser or transferee shall recognize LICENSEE's
rights hereunder and under the terms of the Supplement.
20)   NOTICES. Subject to paragraph 11 herein, all notices hereunder must be in
writing and shall be deemed validly given if sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested or by commercial courier, provided the courier's regular
business is delivery service and provided further that it guarantees delivery
to the addressee by the end of the next business day following the courier's
receipt from the sender, addressed as follows (or any other address that the
Party to be notified may have designated to the sender by like notice):
         LICENSOR:   
         LICENSEE:   
      WITH A COPY TO ATTORNEYS:   
      Notice shall be effective upon actual receipt or refusal as shown on the
receipt obtained pursuant to the foregoing.
21)   CASUALTY. In the event of damage by fire or other casualty to the Pole or
Premises that cannot reasonably be expected to be repaired within forty-five
(45) days following same or, if the Pole or Property is damaged by fire or
other casualty so that such damage may reasonably be expected to disrupt
LICENSEE's operations at the Premises for more than forty-five (45) days, then
LICENSEE may, at any time following such fire or other casualty, provided
LICENSOR has not completed the restoration required to permit LICENSEE to
resume its operation at the Premises, terminate the Supplement upon fifteen
(15) days prior written notice to LICENSOR. Any such notice of termination
shall cause the Supplement to expire with the same force and effect as though
the date set forth in such notice were the date originally set as the
expiration date of the Supplement and the Parties shall make an appropriate
adjustment, as of such termination date, with respect to payments due to the
other under the Supplement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the rent shall abate
during the period of repair following such fire or other casualty in proportion
to the degree to which LICENSEE's use of the Premises is impaired.
22)   APPLICABLE LAWS. During the Term, LICENSOR shall maintain the Property
and the Pole in compliance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations,
ordinances, directives, covenants, easements, zoning and land use regulations,
and restrictions of record, permits, building codes, (collectively "Laws").
LICENSEE shall, in respect to the condition of the Premises and at LICENSEE's
sole cost and expense, comply with (a) all Laws relating solely to LICENSEE's
specific and unique nature of use of the Premises; and (b) all building codes
requiring modifications to the Premises due to the improvements being made by
LICENSEE in the Premises. It shall be LICENSOR's obligation to comply with all
Laws relating to the Pole in general, without regard to specific use
(including, without limitation, modifications required to enable LICENSEE to
obtain all necessary building permits).
23)   BOND. LICENSEE shall deposit with LICENSOR prior to the commencement of
each Supplement a bond in a form reasonably acceptable to LICENSOR in the
amount of $10,000 to guarantee the safe and efficient removal of any equipment
from the Premises, which equipment remains more than 30 days after rental
payment has ceased and Licensee has failed to remove the equipment. The funds
may also be used to restore the premises to original condition, if LICENSEE
fails to do so. The amount of the bond or escrow shall be as listed on each
supplement.
24)   MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement and the Supplements that may be executed
from time to time hereunder contain all agreements, promises and understandings
between the LICENSOR and the LICENSEE regarding this transaction, and no oral
agreement, promises or understandings shall be binding upon either the LICENSOR
or the LICENSEE in any dispute, controversy or proceeding. This Agreement may
not be amended or varied except in a writing signed by all Parties. This
Agreement shall extend to and bind the heirs, personal representatives,
successors and assigns hereto. The failure of either party to insist upon
strict performance of any of the terms or conditions of this Agreement or to
exercise any of its rights hereunder shall not waive such rights and such party
shall have the right to enforce such rights at any time. The performance of
this Agreement via each Supplement shall be governed interpreted, construed and
regulated by the laws of the state of Illinois.
25)   AUTHORIZATION. LICENSEE certifies and warrants that it has the authority
to enter into this Agreement.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have set their hands and affixed
their respective seals the day and year first above written.
LICENSOR:
_____________________________, an Illinois Municipal Corporation
By:_______________________________
Name: _____________________________
Title: ______________________________
Date:_______________________________
LICENSEE:
By: _______________________________
By:_______________________________
Name: _____________________________
Title: ______________________________
Date:_______________________________
EXHIBIT "A"
LICENSE SUPPLEMENT
   This License Supplement (Supplement), is made this ____ day of _______,
_______, between the City/Village of _______________________, whose principal
place of business is _________________________ (LICENSOR), and
______________________________, whose principal place of business is
______________________________________________ (LICENSEE).
1.   Master License Agreement. This Supplement is a Supplement as referenced in
that certain Master License Agreement between the City/Village _____________
and _________________________________, dated ____________, 20___, (the
Agreement). All of the terms and conditions of the Agreement are incorporated
herein by reference and made a part hereof without the necessity of repeating
or attaching the Agreement. In the event of a contradiction, modification or
inconsistency between the terms of the Agreement and this Supplement, the terms
of this Supplement (note - Supplement should govern because there may be some
site-specific items that might have to be addressed at an individual location
which might create a conflict with Agreement terms) shall govern. Capitalized
terms used in this Supplement shall have the same meaning described for them in
the Agreement unless otherwise indicated herein.
2.   Premises. The Property owned by Licensor is located at
___________________________________. The Premises licensed by the LICENSOR to
the LICENSEE hereunder is described on Exhibit "1" attached hereto and made a
part hereof.
3.   Term. The Commencement Date and the Term of this Supplement shall be as
set forth in Paragraph 6 of the Agreement.
4.   Consideration. Rent under this Supplement shall be $200.00 per year,
payable to LICENSOR at ___________________. Thereafter, Rent will be due at
each annual anniversary of the "Commencement Date" of this Supplement. LESSEE
shall obtain electrical service and provide for a separate meter and billing
from the applicable utility provider.
5.   Site Specific Terms. (Include any site-specific terms)
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have set their hands and affixed
their respective seal the day and year first above written.
LICENSOR
City/Village of ___________________________, an Illinois Municipal Corporation
 
By: _____________________________
Name: __________________________
Title: ___________________________
Date: ___________________________
LICENSEE
By: _____________________________
Name: __________________________
Title: ___________________________
Date: ___________________________
   EXHIBIT 1
   Premises
   (see attached site plans)
(Ord. 1769, passed 12-3-2018)
CHAPTER 7: BUSINESS CODE
ARTICLE I: ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
7-1-1   Applications
   
7-1-2   Persons subject to license
   
7-1-3   Term and form of license
   
7-1-4   Investigation
   
7-1-5   Fees
   
7-1-6   Termination of licenses
   
7-1-7   Building and premises
   
7-1-8   Change of location
   
7-1-9   Location
   
7-1-10   Nuisances prohibited
   
7-1-11   (Reserved)
   
7-1-12   Inspections
   
7-1-13   Suspension or revocation of license or permit
   
7-1-14   Appeals
   
7-1-15   License to be posted
   
7-1-16   Business vehicle sticker
   
Appendix A:   Business license application
   
Appendix B:   Official business license
   
Appendix C:   Applicant/field check information card
§ 7-1-1 APPLICATIONS. 
   (A)    Applications for all licenses and permits required by this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Municipal Clerk in the absence of provision to
the contrary.
   (B)   Each application shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The permit or license desired;
      (3)   The location to be used, if any;
      (4)   The time covered; and
      (5)   The fee to be paid.
   (C)   Each application shall also contain the number of the certificates of
registration required under the Retailer's Occupation Tax Act, Service
Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act, if applicable. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance of
the municipal officials in the issuing of the license or permit applied for.
See Appendix A, Business License Application.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 7-1-2 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever a license or permit is required in this code or in any municipal
ordinance for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation,
any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the requirement if, by
himself or itself or through an agent, employee or partner, he or it is held
forth as being engaged in the business, activity or occupation or if he or it
solicits patronage therefor actively or passively; or if he or it performs or
attempts to perform any part of such business, activity or occupation in this
municipality.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-2)
§ 7-1-3 TERM AND FORM OF LICENSE. 
   No license shall be granted for longer than a one- year term, and all
licenses, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, shall expire on the last day
of the next April following their issue. Every license shall be signed by the
Mayor and attested by the Clerk under the corporate seal, and no license shall
be valid until signed and countersigned as aforesaid, nor shall any person be
deemed to be licensed until the same shall have been issued to him or her in
due form.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-3)
§ 7-1-4 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Clerk, within 48 hours, shall refer
the application to the appropriate official(s) for the making of such
investigation or inspection.
   (B)   The official(s) to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days after receiving such
application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall make or cause to be made an inspection
regarding such permits and licenses as relate to the care and handling of food,
the prevention of nuisances and the spread of disease and the protection of
health. If a Zoning Code is in effect, the Zoning Administrator shall make or
cause to be made any inspections which relate to compliance with the Zoning
Code and other related regulations. All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the Clerk shall
forward such reports, together with the application, to the Mayor for
evaluation and determination.
   (E)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified
necessary and appropriate.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that
his or her application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be
issued.
   (G)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the
applicant that his or her application is approved and the license or permit may
be issued.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-4)
§ 7-1-5 FEES.
   In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor
is made to the Clerk in the amounts prescribed by the corporate authorities.
When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until after the
expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be prorated by
quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof during which the
business or activity has been or will be conducted. Except as otherwise
provided, all license and permit fees shall become a part of the corporate
fund. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or permit
fee or part thereof by reason of death or departure of the licensee or
permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of non-use of the
license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business or activity.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-5)
§ 7-1-6 TERMINATION OF LICENSES. 
   (A)   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April
30 of the following year where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual), three weeks
prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, however, that a failure to make
such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse
the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license or a renewal thereof,
nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation without a license.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-6)
§ 7-1-7 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and building to be
used for the purpose do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and
regulations of this municipality and the State of Illinois. No such license or
permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any
act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Code and/or other applicable
regulations of this municipality.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-7)
§ 7-1-8 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation or the location of any
permitted act may be changed, provided that ten days notice thereof is given to
the Clerk in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided further,
however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of this municipality
shall be complied with.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 7-1-9 LOCATION.
   No license for the operation of a business or establishment in this
municipality shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business
or establishment in more than one location in this municipality; a separate
license shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For
the purpose of this code, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel; shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner; and shall be an establishment with the
same classification.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 7-1-10 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Refuse disposal.
      (1)   Refuse containers. The standard refuse container required by this
code shall be a receptacle of not less than 20 nor more than 32 gallons
capacity, constructed of impervious material and sturdy construction with a
tight-fitting cover and equipped with handles properly placed to facilitate
handling.
      (2)   Duty to provide refuse containers.  
         (a)   The occupant of every building, structure or premises used or
maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide and
maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse containers
for the temporary storage of all refuse accumulating between collections.
         (b)   All refuse which is placed for collection service outside any
building or structure must be kept in standard refuse containers.
      (3)   Refuse removal. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
building, structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any
business or occupation to cause to be removed, at his or her own cost and
expense, at least once each week, all refuse produced therein.
      (4)   Removal of restaurant garbage. Every person owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, café, or retail food establishment where more than 32
gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all garbage to be
placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all substances deposited
in such containers to be removed daily from his or her premises and to be
disposed of at his or her own expense.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-10.3) (Am. Ord. 1496, passed 11-3-2008)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-1-11 (RESERVED)
§ 7-1-12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
ordinance or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions
of any ordinance or regulation of this municipality, or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in charge of the
premises to admit thereto, for the purpose of making the inspection, any
officer or employee of this municipality who is duly authorized to make such
inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance or
regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of this municipality requesting the same, sufficient
samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any owner or operator of a licensed business in this
municipality who refuses to permit any duly authorized officer or employee to
make such inspection or to take adequate sample(s) of said commodity or who
interferes with such officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties; provided, however, that no license shall be subject to revocation for
such cause unless such officer or employee has been refused permission to enter
upon the premises in the name of this municipality after having first presented
a warrant authorizing such entry.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-12)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-1-13 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Nuisance. When the conduct or operation of any business or
establishment, whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and
a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the
Mayor shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten days.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-13.1)
   (B)   Hearing. Within eight days after the Mayor has so acted, the Mayor
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-13.2)
   (C)   Revocation.
      (1)   Licenses and permits issued in this municipality, unless otherwise
provided, may be revoked by the Mayor after notice and hearing as provided in
divisions (D) and (E) of this section for any of the following causes:
         (a)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
         (b)   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of code provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit
or the premises occupied;
         (c)   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
         (d)   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owed to this municipality;
         (e)   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized officer or employee in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in §
7-1-12.
      (2)   Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable code regulations of this municipality.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-13.3)
   (D)   Hearing notice. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the licensee or permittee at his
or her last known address at least five days prior to the date set for the
hearing.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-13.4)
   (E)   Counsel. At the hearing, the attorney for the municipality shall
present the complaint and shall represent the municipality. The licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross-examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside anal shall render
the decision.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-13.5)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-1-14 APPEALS. 
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Mayor regarding the denial of an
application for a business license as provided in §
7-1-4 or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit as provided
in §
7-1-13 shall have the right to appeal to the municipality. Such appeal shall be
taken by filing with the Clerk, within ten days after notice of a denial of an
application or a revocation of a license or permit, a written statement under
oath setting forth specifically the grounds for appeal. The municipality shall
thereupon set the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the
same manner as provided in §
7-1-13. The decision of the municipality on such appeal shall be final.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-14)
§ 7-1-15 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in this
municipality to keep his or her license posted in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business at all times.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-15)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-1-16 BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER. 
   Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis in whole or in part for a
license fee, the Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker for
each vehicle covered by the license and such tag or sticker shall be posted or
affixed in a conspicuous place on each business vehicle.
(1993 Code, § 7-1-16)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
APPENDIX A: BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION
[Click_here_to_view_document_in_PDF_format._Adobe_Acrobat_Reader_required.]
APPENDIX B: OFFICIAL BUSINESS LICENSE
[Click_here_to_view_document_in_PDF_format._Adobe_Acrobat_Reader_required.]
APPENDIX C:  APPLICANT/FIELD CHECK INFORMATION CARD
[Click_here_to_view_document_in_PDF_format._Adobe_Acrobat_Reader_required.]
ARTICLE II: SOLICITORS
Section
   
7-2-1   Definitions
   
7-2-2   Certificate of registration
   
7-2-3   Application for certificate of registration
   
7-2-4   Issuance and revocation of certificate
   
7-2-5   Policy on soliciting
   
7-2-6   Notice regulating soliciting
   
7-2-7   Compliance by solicitors
   
7-2-8   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
7-2-9   Time limit on soliciting
   
7-2-10   Solicitations on public highways
   
7-2-11   Fees
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5
§ 7-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meanings herein ascribed thereto, to-wit:
   REGISTERED SOLICITOR. Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of
registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is in the
possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in soliciting.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. This term shall mean and include any one or more of the
following activities conducted anywhere other than from a permanent building or
structure maintained for the operation of business within the city:
      (1)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever for any kind of consideration whatsoever;
      (2)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character;
      (3)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication;
      (4)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project;
      (5)   Any activity conducted by an ice cream truck vendor, as defined in
Article X, § 7-2-1; and
      (6)   Any activity conducted by an other mobile truck vendor, as defined
in Article X, § 7-2-1.
   Activities conducted by any food truck vendor and/or itinerant vendors, both
as defined in Chapter 7, Article X, § 7-2-1, shall be excluded from the
definition of soliciting herein. Activities of food truck vendors and itinerant
vendors shall obtain such permits as are required by the provisions of Chapter
7, Article X of this Code.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-1) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-2 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every person desiring to engage in soliciting as herein defined from persons
within this municipality is hereby required to make written application for a
certificate of registration with the Chief of Police as hereinafter provided.
All resident charitable, nonprofit organizations in this municipality which
have been in existence for six months or longer shall be exempt from the
provisions of this article.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-2) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-3 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a
form provided by the Chief of Police of this municipality and filed with such
Chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application, to-wit:
      (1)   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address, business address if other than residence address,
and Social Security Number;
      (2)   Address of place of residence during the past three years if other
than present address;
      (3)   Age of applicant and marital status, and, if married, the name of
spouse;
      (4)   Physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
with whom the applicant is employed or represents, and the length of time of
such employment or representation;
      (6)   Name and address of employer during the past three years if other
than the present employer;
      (7)   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
      (8)   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      (9)   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
a certificate under this chapter, if any;
      (10)   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter ever been revoked?
      (11)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this code or the regulations of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting?
      (12)   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State of Illinois or any other state or federal
law of the United States?
      (13)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on
business immediately preceding the date of application in this municipality and
the address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities; and
      (14)   Such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   In addition to the foregoing, the applicant must also submit to
fingerprinting and a background check to be completed by the Chief of Police or
his designee.
   (D)   With respect to ice cream truck vendors and other mobile truck
vendors, the applicant must also furnish:
      (1)   Proof of insurance as required by §
7-10-2(C);
      (2)   A current Illinois Retainer Occupation Tax Certificate;
      (3)   Current vehicle registration for any ice cream truck or other
mobile truck;
      (4)   Valid driver's license for all individuals who will be operating
any ice cream truck or other mobile truck.
   (E)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon, together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this chapter and of the denial of
applications.
   (F)   Applications for certificates issued shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
   (G)   No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the State of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States within five
years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted
of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any person
whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked
as herein provided.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-3) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-4 ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, after consideration of the application and all
information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if the
applicant does not possess the qualifications for such certificate as herein
required, or in the event he or she determines, in his or her sole and absolute
discretion, that the issuance of a certificate of registration to the applicant
would not be in accord with the intent and purpose of this code. Endorsement
shall be made by the Chief of Police upon the application of the denial of the
application. When the applicant is found to be fully qualified, the certificate
of registration shall be issued forthwith.
   (B)   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the Chief of Police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any provision of this chapter, or has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter. Immediately
upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the Chief of
Police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S. Mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to his or her residence address set forth
in the application. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate
of registration shall become null and void.
   (C)   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-4) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-5 POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is declared to be the policy of this municipality that the occupant or
occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the determination
of whether solicitors shall be or shall not be invited to their respective
residences.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-5) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-6 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by
the regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this article shall comply
with the following directions:
   (A)   Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to
solicitors or the refusal of invitation to solicitors to any residence shall be
given in the manner provided in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches in size
shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence
indicating the determination by the occupant and containing the applicable
words, as follows:
“ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED”
or
“NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting the same, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-6) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-2-7 COMPLIANCE BY SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It is the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in this
municipality upon which a residence as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in §
7-2-6 if any is attached and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice.
   (B)   If the notice states “ONLY REGISTERED SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the
solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of registration as herein provided
for shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises; and if the
notice states, “NO SOLICITORS INVITED,” then the solicitor, whether registered
or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (C)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-7) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-2-8 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED. 
   It is declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person
to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door or create
any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting as herein defined in defiance of the
notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
7-2-6.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-8) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-2-9 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   Other than as provided for ice cream truck vendors and other mobile truck
vendors in §
7-10-6, it is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person, whether registered under this article or not, to go upon any
premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located
thereon or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
soliciting as herein defined prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any
weekday or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-9) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-2-10 SOLICITATIONS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   Charitable organizations shall be allowed to solicit upon public highways
under the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The charitable organization must be one that is registered with the
Attorney General of the State of Illinois as a charitable organization as
provided by “An Act to Regulate Solicitation and Collection of Funds for
Charitable Purposes, Providing for Violations Thereof, and Making an
Appropriation Therefor,” approved July 26, 1963, as amended.
   (B)   Solicitations will be allowed only by groups that have chapters in the
city.
   (C)   The organization will be liable for any injury to any person or
property during the solicitation which is causally related to an act of
ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent.
   (D)   Solicitations will be allowed only at intersections where all traffic
from all directions is required to come to a full stop.
   (E)   Organizations will be allowed to solicit for three hours during
daylight hours on Fridays, and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 Noon on
Saturdays.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-10) (Ord. 995, passed 2-26-1996) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-
2022)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-2-11 FEES.
   Upon making an application for a certificate, the applicant shall pay a
license fee, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $10 per person per day.
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(1993 Code, § 7-2-11) (Am. Ord. 1854, passed 7-18-2022)
ARTICLE III: PEDDLERS
Section
   
7-3-1   License required
   
7-3-2   Definition
   
7-3-3   Applications
   
7-3-4   Investigation of applicants
   
7-3-5   Hours
   
7-3-6   Fraud
   
7-3-7   Photographs
   
7-3-8   Unwanted peddling
   
7-3-9   Peddlers as nuisance
   
7-3-10   Duty of police to abate
   
7-3-11   Exclusionary provision
   
7-3-12   Fees
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5
§ 7-3-1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
business of hawker or peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without
having first secured a license therefor.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 7-3-2 DEFINITION.
   PEDDLE shall mean the selling, bartering or exchanging or the offering for
sale, barter or exchange of any tangible personal property upon or along the
streets, highways or public places of this municipality or from house-to-house,
whether at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from any wagon, truck,
pushcart or other vehicle, or from movable receptacles of any kind, but shall
not include the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items
along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller
to stop and exhibit his items; nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the
solicitation of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time
the order is taken.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 7-3-3 APPLICATIONS.
   A person desiring a license may obtain the same by making application with
the Clerk and providing the following information:
   (A)   Name and physical description of applicant;
   (B)   Permanent home and address and local address if operating from such an
address;
   (C)   A brief description of the business and of the goods to be sold;
   (D)   Name and address of the employer, if any;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   Evidence that the agent is acting on behalf of the corporation he or
she represents;
   (G)   Statement of the applicant's criminal record other than a traffic
record; and
   (H)   The last three municipalities where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application to this municipality and the
address from which such business was conducted in those municipalities.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 7-3-4 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS. 
   Upon receipt of each application, it shall be referred to the Chief of
Police, who shall investigate the business and moral character of the
applicant. If the facts show the applicant unfit to receive the license, then
it shall be denied.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-4)
§ 7-3-5 HOURS. 
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this code or not, to engage in peddling as
herein defined prior to 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. of any weekday or at any
time on a Sunday or on a state or national holiday.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-5)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-3-6 FRAUD.
   No licensed peddler or hawker shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee while acting
as a peddler in this municipality, or shall barter, sell or peddle any goods or
merchandise or wares other than those specified in his application for a
license.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-6)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-3-7 PHOTOGRAPHS.
   Two photographs of the applicant and such of the applicant's employees as
will be used in the peddling or merchandising, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the filing of the application, which pictures shall be two inches by
two inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant or the applicant's
agent(s) and/or employee(s) in a clear and distinguishing manner.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-7)
§ 7-3-8 UNWANTED PEDDLING.
   Nothing contained in this chapter, nor the issuance of any license hereunder
shall entitle the licensee to go in or upon any private residence for the
purpose of peddling if such licensee, his or her agents or employees are
directed to depart from said private residence by the owner or person in charge
thereof.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-8)
§ 7-3-9 PEDDLERS AS NUISANCE. 
   The practice of going in and upon private residences, business
establishments or offices in the municipality by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers,
itinerant merchants and transient vendors of merchandise without having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of
said private residences and business establishments or offices for the purpose
of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking of merchandise is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and is punishable as a violation of this code. No person shall
peddle in a public square.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-9)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-3-10 DUTY OF POLICE TO ABATE.
   The Police Department of this municipality is hereby required and directed
to suppress the same and to abate any such nuisance as described in §
7-3-9.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-10)
§ 7-3-11 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to persons employed or
representing an established merchant, business firm or corporation located and
regularly doing business in the municipality, or to farmers selling any food
items raised or produced by themselves and/or to permanently established
residents who are voters in the municipality or anyone duly licensed.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-11)
§ 7-3-12 FEES.
   The license fees per person to be charged for licenses to peddle in this
municipality, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and established as
follows:
   (A)   Daily license: $10 per person per day.
   (B)   Annual license: $50 per person per year.
(1993 Code, § 7-3-12)
ARTICLE IV: MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
   
7-4-1   Definitions
   
7-4-2   Permit required
   
7-4-3   Application for massage business permit
   
7-4-4   (Reserved)
   
7-4-5   Application for masseur's permit
   
7-4-6   (Reserved)
   
7-4-7   Approval by Police Chief
   
7-4-8   Issuance or denial of massage business permit
   
7-4-9   (Reserved)
   
7-4-10   Display of permits
   
7-4-11   Fee
   
7-4-12   Revocation or suspension of permit
   
7-4-13   Keeping of records
   
7-4-14   Transfers prohibited
   
7-4-15   Sanitation and safety requirements
   
7-4-16   Supervision
   
7-4-17   Persons under age 18 prohibited on the premises
   
7-4-18   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
7-4-19   Exceptions
§ 7-4-1 DEFINITIONS. 
   Unless the particular provision or the context otherwise requires, the
definitions and provisions contained in this section shall govern the
construction, meaning and application of words and phrases used in this
article.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person over 18 years of age, other than a masseur, who renders
any service in connection with the operation of a massage business and receives
compensation from the operator of the business or patrons.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial parts of a patron for
medical, hygienic, exercise or relaxation purposes by rubbing, stroking,
kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating with the hands or any
instrument or by the application of air, liquid or vapor baths of any kind
whatever.
   MASSEUR. Any person who engages in the practice of massage as herein
defined. The use of the masculine gender shall include in all cases the
feminine gender as well.
   PATRON. Any person over 18 years of age who receives a massage under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that he or she will pay money or
give any other consideration therefor.
   RECOGNIZED SCHOOL. Any school or institution of learning which has for its
purpose the teaching of the theory, method, profession or work of massage,
which school requires a resident course of study of not less than 70 hours
before the student shall be furnished with a diploma or certificate of
graduation from such school following the successful completion of such course
of study or learning.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-1)
§ 7-4-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Business permit required. No person shall engage in or carry on the
business of massage unless he has a valid massage business permit issued by the
city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for each and every separate
office or place of business conducted by such person.
   (B)   Masseur's permit required. No person shall practice massage as a
masseur, employee or otherwise, unless he has a valid and subsisting masseur's
permit issued to him by the city pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-2)
§ 7-4-3 APPLICATION FOR MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT. 
   Any person desiring a massage business permit shall file a written
application with the Police Chief on a form to be furnished by the Police
Chief. The applicant shall accompany the application with a tender of the
correct permit fee as hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, furnish the
following:
   (A)   The type of ownership of the business, i.e., whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise;
   (B)   The name, style and designation under which the business or practice
is to be conducted;
   (C)   A complete list of the names and residence addresses of all masseurs
and employees in the business and the name and residence addresses of the
manager and other person(s) principally in charge of the operation of the
business;
   (D)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business is
to be conducted;
   (E)   The following personal information concerning the applicant, if an
individual; and concerning each stockholder holding more than 10% of the stock
of the corporation, each officer and each director, if the applicant is a
corporation; and concerning the partners, including limited partners, if the
applicant is a partnership; and concerning the manager or other person
principally in charge of the operation of the business:
      (1)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone numbers;
      (2)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (3)   Written proof of age;
      (4)   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes, and sex;
      (5)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of the application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (6)   The massage or similar business history and experience, including
but not limited to whether or not such person in previously operating in this
or another city or state under license or permit has had such license or permit
denied, revoked or suspended, and the reason therefor, and the business
activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial, suspension or
revocation;
      (7)   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violations,
fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted and the offense for which
convicted and the circumstances thereof;
      (8)   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by
the Police Chief or his authorized representatives; and
      (9)   Diploma, certificate or other written proof of graduation from a
recognized school by the person who shall be directly responsible for the
operation and management of the massage business.
   (F)   Such other information, identification, and physical examination of
the person as shall be deemed necessary by the Police Chief to discover the
truth of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
   (G)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the application for the
permit; and
   (H)   The names and addresses of three adult residents of the city who will
serve as character references. These references must be persons other than
relatives and business associates.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-3)
§ 7-4-4 (RESERVED)
§ 7-4-5 APPLICATION FOR MASSEUR'S PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a masseur's permit shall file a written application with
the Police Chief on a form to be furnished by the Police Chief. The applicant
shall tender with the application the correct permit fee as hereinafter
provided and shall, in addition, furnish the following:
   (A)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the massage is to
be practiced;
   (B)   The following personal information concerning the applicant:
      (1)   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone numbers;
      (2)   The two previous addresses immediately prior to the present address
of the applicant;
      (3)   Written proof of age;
      (4)   Height, weight, color of hair and eyes and sex;
      (5)   Two front-face portrait photographs taken within 30 days of the
date of application and at least two inches by two inches in size;
      (6)   The massage or similar business history and experience, including
but not limited to whether or not such person in previously operating in this
or other city or state under license or permit denied, revoked or suspended,
and the reason therefor, and the business activities or occupations subsequent
to such action of denial, suspension or revocation;
      (7)   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violation,
fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted and the circumstances
thereof;
      (8)   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by
the Police Chief or his authorized representatives;
      (9)   Diploma, certificate or other written proof of graduation from a
recognized school where the theory, method, profession, or work of massage is
taught; and
      (10)   A statement in writing from a licensed physician in the state that
he has examined the applicant and believes the applicant to be free of all
communicable diseases.
   (C)   Such other information, identification, and physical examination of
the person deemed necessary by the Police Chief in order to discover the truth
of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
   (D)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to seek
information and conduct an investigation into the truth of the statements set
forth in the application and the qualifications of the applicant for the
permit; and
   (E)   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that
the foregoing information contained in the application is true and correct,
said declaration being duly dated and signed in the city.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-5)
§ 7-4-6 (RESERVED)
§ 7-4-7 APPROVAL BY POLICE CHIEF.
   (A)   Upon receiving the application for a massage business or masseur's
permit, the Police Chief shall conduct an investigation into the applicant's
moral character and personal and criminal history. The Police Chief may, in his
discretion, require a personal interview of the applicant and such further
information, identification and physical examination of the person as shall
bear on the investigation.
   (B)   In the case of applications for massage business permits, the Police
Chief shall cause to be conducted an investigation of the premises where the
massage business is to be carried on, for the purposes of assuring that such
premises comply with all the sanitation requirements as set forth in this code
and with the regulations of public health, safety and welfare.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-7)
§ 7-4-8 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF MASSAGE BUSINESS PERMIT.
   The Police Chief shall issue a massage business permit within 45 days of
receipt of the application, unless he finds that one or more of the following
exist:
   (A)   The correct permit fee has not been tendered to the city and, in the
case of a check or bank draft, honored with payment upon presentation.
   (B)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted would not
comply with all applicable laws, including but not limited to the city's
building, zoning and health regulations.
   (C)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the stockholders holding
more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, any of the officers and
directors if the applicant is a corporation, any of the partners, including
limited partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other
person principally in charge of the operation of the business have been
convicted of any crime involving dishonesty, fraud or deceit, unless such
conviction occurred at least five years prior to the date of the application.
   (D)   The applicant has knowingly made any false, misleading or fraudulent
statement of fact in the permit application or in any document required by the
city in conjunction therewith.
   (E)   The applicant has had a massage business, masseur or other similar
permit or license denied, revoked or suspended for any of the above causes by
the city or any other state or local agency within five years prior to the
application date.
   (F)   The applicant, if an individual, or any of the officers and directors
if the applicant is a corporation; or any of the partners, including limited
partners, if the applicant is a partnership; and the manager or other persons
principally in charge of the operation of the business, is not over the age of
18 years; and
   (G)   The manager or other person principally in charge of the operation of
the business has not successfully completed a resident course of study or
learning or not less than 70 hours from a recognized school where the theory,
method, profession or work of massage is taught.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-8)
§ 7-4-9 (RESERVED)
§ 7-4-10 DISPLAY OF PERMITS.
   The massage business permittee shall display his permit, and that of each
and every masseur employed in the establishment, in an open and conspicuous
place on the premises of the massage business.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-10)
§ 7-4-11 FEE.
   The permit fee for a massage business shall be $500 per year or any part
thereof. The permit fee for masseurs shall be $25 per year or any part thereof.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-11)
§ 7-4-12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any massage business or masseur's permit issued under this article shall be
subject to suspension or revocation by the Police Chief for violation of any
provision of this article or for any grounds that would warrant the denial of
issuance of such permit in the first place. The Chief, upon such revocation or
suspension, shall state his reasons in writing, specifying the particular
grounds for such revocation or suspension.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-12)
§ 7-4-13 KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   Every person who operates a massage business or practices or provides a
massage shall, at all times, keep an appointment book in which the name of each
and every patron shall be entered, together with the time, date and place of
service, and the service provided. Such appointment book shall be available at
all times for inspection by the Police Chief or his authorized representative.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-13)
§ 7-4-14 TRANSFERS PROHIBITED.
   No massage business and masseur permits are transferable, separate or
divisible, and such authority as a permit confers shall be conferred only on
the permittee named therein.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-14)
§ 7-4-15 SANITATION AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   All premises used by permittees hereunder shall be periodically inspected by
the Police Chief or his authorized representatives for safety of the structure
and adequacy of plumbing, ventilation, heating and illumination. The walls
shall be clean and painted with washable, mold-resistant paint in all rooms
where water or steam baths are given. Floors shall be free from any
accumulation of dust, dirt or refuse. All equipment used in the massage
operation shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Towels, linen
and items for personal use of operators and patients shall be clean and freshly
laundered. Towels, cloths and sheets shall not be used for more than one
patron. Heavy white paper may be substituted for sheets, provided that such
paper is changed for every patron. No massage service or practice shall be
carried on within any cubicle, room, booth or any area within a massage
establishment which is fitted with a door capable of being locked. Nothing
contained herein shall be construed to eliminate other requirements of statute
of ordinance concerning the maintenance of premises, nor to preclude authorized
inspection thereof.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-15)
§ 7-4-16 SUPERVISION.
   A permittee shall have the premises supervised at all times when open for
business. Any business rendering massage service shall have one person who
qualifies as a masseur on the premises at all times while the establishment is
open. The permittee shall personally supervise the business, and shall not
violate or permit others to violate any applicable provisions of this article.
The violation of any such provision by any agent or employee of the permittee
shall constitute a violation by the permittee.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-16)
§ 7-4-17 PERSONS UNDER AGE 18 PROHIBITED ON THE PREMISES. 
   No person shall permit any person under the age of 18 years to come or
remain on the premises of any massage business establishment as masseur,
employee or patron, unless such person is on the premises on lawful business.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-17)
§ 7-4-18 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sell, give or dispense, provide or keep or cause to be sold,
given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic beverage on the premises of
any massage business.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-18)
§ 7-4-19 EXCEPTIONS. 
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to hospitals, nursing homes,
sanitariums or persons holding an unrevoked certificate to practice the healing
arts under the laws of the state, or persons working under the direction of any
such person or in any such establishment, nor shall this article apply to
barbers or cosmetologists lawfully carrying out their particular profession or
business and holding a valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration
issued by the state.
(1993 Code, § 7-4-19)
ARTICLE V: RAFFLE CODE
Section
   
7-5-1   Raffle Code, incorporation of state law
   
7-5-2   Approval of licenses and waiver of bond
   
7-5-3   Sale of raffle chances at licensed liquor establishments by permit
   
7-5-4   Limitations upon licensing system for all raffles
   
7-5-5   Sale of chances at “Queen of Hearts” raffles
§ 7-5-1 RAFFLE CODE, INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The City of Waterloo, Illinois, hereby adopts by reference herein, ILCS Ch.
230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq., as it shall be amended from time to time, for the
regulation of raffles and poker runs.
(Ord. 1707, passed 11-21-2016; Am. Ord. 1710, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1742,
passed 12-18-2017)
§ 7-5-2 APPROVAL OF LICENSES AND WAIVER OF BOND.
   Application for a raffle license shall be made to the City Clerk or the
Clerk’s designee and shall be approved or disapproved by the Mayor. Waiver of
bond shall be approved or disapproved by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1710, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1742, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 7-5-3 SALE OF RAFFLE CHANCES AT LICENSED LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS BY PERMIT.
   (A)   All licensed liquor establishments may sell raffle chances, on behalf
of any person or entity licensed by the City of Waterloo to conduct raffles,
but only by permit received from the Mayor/Liquor Commissioner.
   (B)   Application for said permit shall be on a form approved by the Mayor/
Liquor Commissioner. A fee of $1.00 is required and the permit is valid for one
year from date of issuance except for a Queen of Hearts raffle which is valid
for 55 weeks.
   (C)   The permit must be prominently displayed in the licensed liquor
establishment.
(Ord. 1710, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1742, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 7-5-4 LIMITATIONS UPON LICENSING SYSTEM FOR ALL RAFFLES.
   (A)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle is $2,100,000 including weekly attendance prizes.
   (B)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle is $2,000,000.
   (C)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold is $100.
   (D)   The maximum length of time during which chances may be issued or sold
is one year, except for a Queen of Hearts raffle for which the maximum length
of time is 55 weeks.
(Ord. 1742, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 7-5-5 SALE OF CHANCES AT “QUEEN OF HEARTS” RAFFLES.
   (A)   A Queen of Hearts raffle shall have a limit of $2,000,000 paid out to
the grand prize winner in addition to weekly attendance prizes, which
attendance prizes shall not total more than $100,000.
   (B)   No more tickets may be sold after such time as sufficient money is
collected to pay $2,000,000 to the grand prize winner. In that event, the
drawing shall continue at that week’s raffle until there is a grand prize
winner.
   (C)   The sponsor’s share of receipts is limited to 20% of receipts.
   (D)   Purchasers of raffle tickets must register their names and addresses
with the sponsor of the raffle.
   (E)   The city may, in its discretion, restrict registration and purchase of
tickets for the raffle based upon health and safety concerns.
   (F)   The city may, in its discretion, assess a fee to provide security,
which fee shall be paid from the sponsor’s share of proceeds.
(Ord. 1742, passed 12-18-2017)
DIVISION II: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 7-5-5 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle, or to
sell, offer for sale, convey, issue or otherwise transfer for value a chance on
a raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by the city and in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-5) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987) Penalty, see § 7-5-17
§ 7-5-6 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an
application therefor with the City Clerk on forms provided by the City Clerk.
The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, and type of organization;
      (2)   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated,
the date and state of incorporation;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number, social security number and
date of birth of the organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffle
manager and any other members responsible for the conduct and operation of the
raffle;
      (4)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the
raffle;
      (5)   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
      (6)   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
      (7)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
      (8)   The area or areas in which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (9)   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
      (10)   The date, time and location at which winning chances will be
determined;
      (11)   A sworn statement attesting to the not- for-profit character of
the applicant organization, signed by the presiding officer and secretary of
the organization;
      (12)   A certificate signed by the presiding officer of the applicant
organization attesting to the fact that the information contained in the
application is true and correct.
   (B)   A fee shall be charged by the city and paid to the City Clerk at the
time of application for a raffle license, according to the following schedule:
 
Aggregate Retail Value of Prizes        Fee
Less than $500                          $5
$500 or more, but less than $1,000      $15
$1,000 or more, but less than $10,000   $25
$10,000 or more, but less than $100,000 $35
More than $100,000                      $50
 
   (C)   If the application is for a multiple series of raffles within the one-
year time limit of the license, the multiple prizes shall be added together to
determine the aggregate value of the prizes for purposes of determination of
fee.
   (D)   The application fees are non-refundable, even should the application
be rejected by the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-6) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 7-5-7 LICENSE QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Raffle licenses shall be issued only to bona fide charitable,
educational, fraternal, labor, religious, business and veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years or more immediately before making
application for a license, and which have had during the entire five-year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
   (B)   The following are ineligible for any license under this article:
      (1)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      (2)   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      (3)   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      (4)   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in divisions (B)
(1), (2) or (3) of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit
interest, or in which the person is active or employed.
      (5)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (2)
or (3) of this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated
or not;
      (6)   Any organization in which a person defined in divisions (B)(1), (2)
or (3) of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
raffle as defined in this article.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-7) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 7-5-8 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Council shall review all raffle license applications. The
City Council shall, within 30 days from the date of application, accept or
reject a raffle license application. This shall be achieved by a majority vote
of the City Council. If an application is accepted, the City Clerk shall
forthwith issue a raffle license to the applicant. A raffle license shall be
valid for a period of not more than one year from and after its issuance.
   (B)   A raffle license shall show the following:
      (1)   The area or areas in which raffle chances may be sold or issued;
      (2)   The period of time during which raffle chances may be sold or
issued;
      (3)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance
issued or sold; and
      (4)   The date, time, and location on or at which winning chances will be
determined.
   (C)   The license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   (D)   A license shall be valid for one raffle only. Multiple licenses may be
issued for multiple raffles to a licensee for up to a maximum period of one
year from the date of the issuance of the license.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-8) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 7-5-9 - 7-5-10 (RESERVED)
DIVISION III: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES
§ 7-5-11 OPERATION AND CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   (B)   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   (D)   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed
under this article.
   (E)   Raffle chances may be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value only within the area specified on the license,
and winning chances may be determined only at those locations specified on the
license.
   (F)   (1)   Each raffle chance shall have printed thereon the following:
         (a)   The cost of the chance;
         (b)   The aggregate retail value of all prices to be awarded in the
raffle;
         (c)   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
         (d)   The date or dates, time or times, and location or locations on
or at which winning chances will be determined.
      (2)   However, when raffle chances are sold, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred only at the time and location at which winning chances
will be determined, and only to persons then in attendance, the face of the
raffle chance need not contain this information.
   (G)   No cash prize in excess of $500,000 may be awarded.
   (H)   No real property, including land and any building thereon, may be the
prize in a raffle unless the organization holding the raffle license owns fee
simple title as to the entire subject real property.
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   (J)    No chance shall be sold, offered for sale, conveyed, issued or
otherwise transferred for value to or by any person under the age of 18 years
without the permission of his or her parent or guardian.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-11) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987) Penalty, see § 7-5-17
§ 7-5-12 RAFFLES MANAGER; BONDS.
   (A)   All operation of and the conduct or raffles shall be under the
supervision of a single Raffles Manager designated by the organization.
   (B)   The Raffles Manager shall give a fidelity bond equal in amount to the
aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded, in favor of the licensee,
conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of his or her duties.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
licensing authority no less than 30 days prior to its cancellation.
   (C)   In addition to the above requirements, the licensee organization shall
give a fidelity bond equal in amount to the aggregate retail value of all
prizes to be awarded, in favor of the city, conditioned upon its honesty in the
performance of the raffle. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be
given in writing to the licensing authority not less than 30 days prior to its
cancellation.
   (D)   The City Council may waive the aforementioned bond requirements by
including a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under
this article, provided that the waiver shall be granted only by unanimous vote
of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-12) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987) Penalty, see § 7-5-17
§ 7-5-13 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and
net proceeds for each single gathering or occasion at which winning chances are
to be determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering
or occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Gross receipts for the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the licensee, including bingo gross receipts
if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant
to license therefor issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of
Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall have separate
records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each licensee shall report within 30 days after the conclusion of each
raffle to its membership and to the City Council, its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as
required herein.
   (D)   Records required herein shall be preserved for three years, and
licensees shall make available their records relating to operation of raffles
for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-13) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987) Penalty, see § 7-5-17
§ 7-5-14 (RESERVED)
DIVISION IV: ENFORCEMENT
§ 7-5-15 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS.
   Whenever regulations or restrictions imposed by this article are either more
or less restrictive than regulations or restrictions imposed by any
governmental authority through legislation, rules or regulations, the
regulations, rules or restrictions which are more restrictive or which impose
higher standards or requirements shall govern.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-15) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 7-5-16 ABATEMENT.
   The imposition of the penalties prescribed in § 7-5-17 hereof shall not
preclude the city from instituting appropriate legal action to prevent unlawful
raffles or to restrain, enjoin, correct or abate a violation of this article or
of the conditions of a raffle license issued pursuant hereto.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-16) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987)
§ 7-5-17 PENALTY. 
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 7-5-17) (Ord. 744, passed 5-4-1987; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-
2009)
ARTICLE VI: BED AND BREAKFAST LICENSE
Section
   
7-6-1   Definitions
   
7-6-2   Requirements
   
7-6-3   Linens
   
7-6-4   Fire Marshal's requirements
   
7-6-5   Liability insurance
   
7-6-6   Hotel taxes
   
7-6-7   License required
   
7-6-8   Application for license
   
7-6-9   Fee
   
7-6-10   Submission of application
   
7-6-11   Eligibility
   
7-6-12   Inspection by Bi-County Health Department
   
7-6-13   Agent for city
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 820, § 3 
§ 7-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guests rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast
may be provided to the guests only. Bed and breakfast establishments shall not
include motels, hotels, boarding houses or food service establishments.
   DEPARTMENT. The Monroe-Randolph Bi-County Health Department.
   GUEST ROOM. A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two transient
guests per night.
   OPERATOR. The owner of the bed and breakfast establishment or the owner's
agent, who is required by this article to reside in the bed and breakfast
establishment or on contiguous property.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-1) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-2 REQUIREMENTS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments which serve breakfast shall comply with the
following minimum standards:
   (A)   Food shall be clean, wholesome, free from spillage, free from
adulteration and misbranding and safe for human consumption. Containers of food
shall be stored above the floor, on clean racks, shelves or other clean
surfaces in such a manner as to be protected from splash or other
contamination. Milk of only pasteurized Grade A may be used. Use of home-canned
food is prohibited except for jams and jellies.
   (B)   Food shall be protected from contamination while being stored,
prepared and served and during transportation. Perishable foods shall be stored
at temperatures that will protect them against spoilage. Potentially hazardous
food shall be maintained at safe temperatures at 45°F or below, or 140°F or
above, as appropriate, except during necessary periods of preparation and
serving. Frozen food shall be kept at temperatures that will keep them frozen,
except when being thawed for preparation. Potentially hazardous frozen food
shall be thawed at refrigeration temperatures or below, quick-thawed as part of
the cooking process, or thawed by another method approved by the Department. An
indicating thermometer shall be located in each refrigerator. Raw fruits and
vegetables shall be washed thoroughly before use. Stuffings, poultry, and pork
products shall be cooked to heat all parts of the food at least 165°F before
being served. Salads made of meat, poultry, potatoes, fish, shellfish or eggs
and other potentially hazardous prepared food shall be prepared from chilled
products with a minimum of manual contact. Portions of food once served to an
individual may not be served again. Laundry facilities shall be separated from
food preparation areas. Live animals shall be excluded from food preparation
areas.
   (C)   No person knowingly infected with a communicable disease that may be
transmitted by food-handling may work in a bed and breakfast establishment.
   (D)   If the bed and breakfast operator suspects that any employee, family
member or the operator himself or herself has a communicable disease, the
operator shall notify the Department immediately.
   (E)   All operators shall be certified. Certification shall be achieved by
successfully completing an examination offered by the Department as described
in the current edition of the State of Illinois Food Service Sanitation Rules
and Regulations.
   (F)   Persons preparing or serving food or washing utensils shall wear clean
outer garments and maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. They shall
wash their hands thoroughly before starting work and as often as necessary
while working to remove soil and contaminants. After visiting a toilet room,
persons shall wash their hands thoroughly in a lavatory but never in the
kitchen sink.
   (G)   No one, while preparing or serving food, may use tobacco in any form.
   (H)   Utensils shall be kept clean and in good repair.
   (I)   Multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use. Facilities needed for the operations of washing, rinsing and
sanitizing shall be provided.
   (J)   Pots, pans and other utensils used in the preparation or serving of
food or drink and all food storage utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned after
each use. Cooking surfaces of equipment, if any, shall be cleaned at least once
each day. Non-food contact surfaces of equipment shall be cleaned at intervals
that will keep them in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (K)   Residential sinks and home-style mechanical dishwashing machines are
acceptable facilities for washing multi-use eating and drinking utensils.
Utensils shall be air dried.
   (L)   Immediately following either manual or mechanical washing of eating or
drinking utensils and pots, pans and other cooking utensils, these utensils
shall be effectively sanitized by being submerged in a hypochlorite solution
with a chlorine concentration continuously maintained in 100 parts per million,
or another approved sanitizing solution, which shall be used at the
concentration tested and approved by the Department. Dish pans may be used to
accomplish the final sanitizing rinse.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-2) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-3 LINENS.
   Each person who is provided accommodations shall be provided individual soap
and clean individual bath cloths and towels. Clean bed linen in good repair
shall be provided for each guest who is provided accommodations and shall be
changed between guests and as often as necessary. Clean linen shall be stored
and handled in a sanitary manner.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-3) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-4 FIRE MARSHAL'S REQUIREMENTS. 
   Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the State Fire Marshal's
requirements for one- and two-family dwellings. In addition, the following,
standards shall be required:
   (A)   Manual extinguishing equipment shall be provided on each floor in
accordance with NFPA 10: Standards for the Installation of Portable Fire
Extinguishers.
   (B)   All combustibles or flammable liquids shall be stored in approved
metal containers. No combustible storage shall be in or under stairways.
   (C)   All trash containers shall be metal.
   (D)   No cooking facilities shall be permitted in guest rooms.
   (E)   All hallways and stairways shall be adequately lighted.
   (F)   No portable heating devices shall be permitted in guest rooms.
   (G)   The operator shall submit a floor plan of the bed and breakfast
establishment to the Fire Department.
   (H)   Smoke detectors shall be provided in each guest room.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-4) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-5 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of effective
liability insurance that insures the licensee from liability not less than
$100,000 per person.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-5) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-6 HOTEL TAXES.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall fulfill the requirements of the
Illinois Department of Revenue, including the payment of any applicable hotel
taxes.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-6) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-7 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a bed and breakfast establishment without
having a license from the city.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-7) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 7-6-8 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for a license to operate a bed and breakfast establishment shall
be made to the city, in writing, on a form to be furnished by the city. The
application shall be verified by oath or affidavit, shall be accompanied by a
non-refundable fee of $100 and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The location and description of the bed and breakfast establishment
which is to be operated under the license;
   (C)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
license or premises other than described in the application, and whether such
application was granted or denied.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-8) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-9 FEE. 
   The fee for an initial license shall be $100 and for renewal of a license
shall be $50. Each license issued hereunder shall be valid for one year and
must be renewed each year thereafter in order to remain valid.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-9) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-10 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
   Upon application of being prepared and executed by the applicant, it shall
be submitted by the city to the Health Department for recommendation. The city
may withhold action on the application for 60 days for investigation of the
proposed bed and breakfast establishment before taking action thereon. No
license shall be issued or renewed without a recommendation to do so by the
Department.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-10) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-11 ELIGIBILITY.
   Only persons of good character shall be eligible for a license under this
article and only licensees who operate an orderly and reputable bed and
breakfast establishment shall be eligible for renewal of a license under this
article.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-11) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-12 INSPECTION BY BI-COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   The Department shall inspect each bed and breakfast establishment at least
once each year for the purpose of determining whether such establishments are
in compliance with this article. If such inspection reveals that a bed and
breakfast establishment is not in compliance with this article, the Health
Department shall notify the city thereof. No such license shall be revoked or
suspended, except after a public hearing by the city with at least a three-day
written notice to the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear
and to be heard. The service of such notice may be made by leaving a copy of
such notice at the place of business of such licensee with some person over the
age of 15 years and informing such person of the contents of such notice. The
city shall, within five days after such hearing, if it determines after such
hearing that the license shall be revoked or suspended, state the reason or
reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation or suspension,
and shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-12) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 7-6-13 AGENT FOR CITY.
   The Health Department is hereby designated as the agent of the city for the
purposes of furnishing supervisory and administrative services under this
article.
(1993 Code, § 7-6-13) (Ord. 778, passed 9-19-1988)
ARTICLE VII: TATTOO AND/OR BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
7-7-1   Definitions
   
7-7-2   Permit, certificate and license required
   
7-7-3   Filing of applications and fee provisions
   
7-7-4   Application for tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment, or to
perform tattooing and/or body piercing
   
7-7-5   Investigations
   
7-7-6   Revocation of tattooing and/or body-piercing permit
   
7-7-7   Operating, health, safety and licensing requirements
   
7-7-8   Keeping of records
   
7-7-9   Out-call service
   
7-7-10   Inspections
   
7-7-11   Employment of persons under the age of 21 prohibited
   
7-7-12   Transfer of permit
   
7-7-13   Display of permit, ordinance, and state certificate of registration
   
7-7-14   Employment of tattooer(s) or body-piercer(s)
   
7-7-15   Age requirement for tattoos
   
7-7-16   Age requirement for body-piercing
   
7-7-17   Rules and regulations
   
7-7-18   Violations and penalty
   
7-7-19   Maintaining a public nuisance
   
7-7-20   General rules and regulations regarding tattooing and/or body piercing
(body art)
   
7-7-21   Limitation of licenses
§ 7-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY-PIERCER. Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in
the practice of body-piercing as herein defined.
   EMPLOYEE.  Any person and all persons who render any services to the
permittee and who receive compensation directly from the permittee.
   OUT-CALL TATTOOING OR BODY-PIERCING SERVICE. Any business, the function of
which is to engage in or carry on tattooing or body-piercing at a location
other than a tattoo or body piercing establishment.
   PERMITTEE. The operator of a tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment, or
any person performing tattooing and/or body-piercing.
   PIERCE, PIERCED or PIERCING. Any method to make a hole in the body in order
to insert or allow the insertion of any ring, hoop, stud or other object for
the purpose of ornamentation of the body. This article shall not refer to or
prohibit ear piercing.
   TATTOO AND/OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a fixed
place of business where any person engages in or carries on, or permits to be
engaged in or carried on, any of the activities mentioned in §
7-7-1 of this article.
   TATTOO, TATTOOED and TATTOOING. Any method of placing designs, letters,
scrolls, figures, symbols or any other marks upon or under the skin, with ink
or any other substance, resulting in the permanent coloration of the skin by
the aid of needles or any other instruments designed to touch or puncture the
skin.
   TATTOOER. Any person who, for any consideration whatsoever, engages in the
practice of tattooing as herein defined.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-2 PERMIT, CERTIFICATE AND LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on,
or to permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises
in the city, the operation of a tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment as
herein defined, without first having obtained a permit signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Furthermore, all persons shall be required to secure a minimum of
$1,000,000 liability insurance in order to operate a tattooing and/or body-
piercing establishment.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform tattooing and/or body-
piercing in the city without first having obtained a license from the State of
Illinois and a permit signed by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-3 FILING OF APPLICATIONS AND FEE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a permit to maintain, operate or conduct a tattoo
and/or body-piercing establishment shall file an application under oath with
the Municipal Clerk, upon a form provided by the Clerk. Every applicant shall
pay a non-refundable filing fee of $100 for an original application, and $100
for a renewal application to the city.
   (B)    Every applicant for a permit to perform tattooing and/or body-
piercing shall file an application under oath with the Municipal Clerk, upon a
form provided by the Clerk. Every applicant shall pay a non-refundable filing
fee of $50 for an original application, and $50 for a renewal application to
the city.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-4 APPLICATION FOR TATTOO AND/OR BODY-PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT, OR TO
PERFORM TATTOOING AND/OR BODY-PIERCING.
   The applicant for a permit to operate a tattoo and/or body-piercing
establishment, and the applicant for a permit to perform tattooing and/or body-
piercing shall set forth the proposed place of business and facilities, and
shall include the following information:
   (A)   Name and address;
   (B)   Written proof that the individual is at least 21 years of age;
   (C)   All residential addresses for the past five years;
   (D)   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
   (E)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for five years
immediately preceding the date of application;
   (F)   The tattoo and/or body-piercing or similar business license history of
the applicant; whether such person, in previously operating in this or another
city or state under license, has had such license revoked or suspended, the
reasons therefor, and the business activity or occupation subsequent to such
action of suspension or revocation;
   (G)   All criminal or city ordinance violation convictions, forfeitures of
bond, pleadings of nolo contendere, and court supervision on all charges,
except minor traffic violations;
   (H)   The fingerprints and passport-style photograph of the applicant.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-5 INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Within five days, the Municipal Clerk shall refer copies of such
application to the Police Chief and other applicable departments. The Police
Chief shall conduct an investigation into the applicant's moral character and
personal and criminal history. The Police Chief may, at his or her discretion,
require a personal interview of the applicant and such further information,
identification and physical examination of the person as shall bear on the
investigation. Within 30 days, the Zoning Administrator shall make any
inspections that relate to compliance with the Zoning Code and forward written
recommendations to the Municipal Clerk. Within 30 days, the Code Administrator
shall inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a tattoo or body-piercing
establishment, and forward written recommendations to the Municipal Clerk
concerning compliance with the codes that he or she administers. Within ten
days of receipt of the investigative reports of the aforesaid departments, the
Municipal Clerk shall forward such reports, together with the application, to
the Mayor for evaluation and disposition.
   (B)   Any of the following actions shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such permit and shall be grounds for
denial thereof:
      (1)   Failure or refusal to promptly give any information relevant to the
investigation of the application; or
      (2)   Failure or refusal to appear at any reasonable time and place for
examination under oath regarding the application; or
      (3)   Refusal to submit to or cooperate with any inspection required by
sections in this article.
   (C)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
Clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be specified
necessary and appropriate.
   (D)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory; the Mayor may
disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor. Thereupon, the
Clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant that his or her
application is disapproved and that no license or permit will be issued. In the
case of an applicant for a permit to perform tattooing and/or body-piercing,
the operator of the tattoo and/or body piercing establishment will also be
notified of the disapproval.
      (1)   In no case shall a license or permit be issued to operate a tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment if any of the following are found:
         (a)   That the operation, as proposed by the applicant, if permitted,
would not have complied with all applicable laws, including but not limited to,
city ordinances; or
         (b)   That the applicant and/or any other person who will be directly
or indirectly engaged in the management and operation of a tattoo or body-
piercing establishment has been convicted of:
            1.   An offense involving sexual misconduct; or
            2.   The following sections of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 or a similar
city ordinance: §§ 11 et seq. (sex offense); § 12C-35 (tattooing the body of a
minor); § 12C-40 (piercing the body of a minor); § 12-33 (ritualized abuse of a
minor); and § 12-34 (female genital mutilation).
      (2)    In no case shall a license or permit be issued to perform
tattooing and/or body piercing if the applicant has been convicted of:
         (a)   An offense involving sexual misconduct; or
         (b)   The following sections of ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5 or a similar city
ordinance: §§ 11 et seq. (sex offense); § 12C-35 (tattooing the body of a
minor); § 12C-40 (piercing the body of a minor); § 12-33 (ritualized abuse of a
minor); and § 12-34 (female genital mutilation).
   (E)   After due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the Mayor shall determine
whether the application is satisfactory, and the Mayor shall approve the
application at his or her discretion. Thereupon, the Clerk shall be directed to
promptly notify the applicant that his or her application is approved and the
license or permit may be issued.
   (F)   Every tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment permit issued pursuant
to §§
7-7-1 through
7-7-5 will terminate on April 30 of each year, unless sooner suspended or
revoked. The permittee shall be required to apply for renewal of the permit
between January 1 and March 31 of each year, on a form provided by the city.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-6 REVOCATION OF TATTOOING AND/OR BODY-PIERCING PERMIT.
   (A)   A tattooing or body-piercing permit shall be revoked or suspended
where the tattooer or body-piercer has been convicted of any offense that would
be cause for denial of a permit upon an original application, has made a false
statement on an application for a permit, or has committed an act in violation
of this article.
   (B)   Prior to revocation or suspension of a tattooing or body-piercing
permit, the Municipal Clerk shall give the permit holder a written notice
specifying the grounds thereof.
   (C)   Within ten days of such revocation or suspension, such person may file
a written request with the Mayor for a public hearing before the Mayor, at
which time the tattooer or body-piercer may present evidence bearing upon the
question.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-7 OPERATING, HEALTH, SAFETY AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permittee shall be subject to all statutes and regulations, as amended
from time to time, of the State of Illinois regarding operating, health, safety
and licensing requirements.
   (B)   Permittee must, at all times, possess and display a valid certificate
of registration from the State of Illinois pursuant to ILCS Ch. 410, Act 54.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-8 KEEPING OF RECORDS.
   (A)   Every person who operates a tattoo and/or body-piercing establishment
or performs tattooing and/or body-piercing shall, at all times, keep an
appointment book in which the name of each and every patron shall be entered,
together with the time, date and place of service, and the service provided.
   (B)   Such appointment book shall be available at all times for inspection
by the Police Chief or his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-9 OUT-CALL SERVICE.
   No out-call tattooing or body-piercing service may be operated.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-10 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Code Administrator shall, from time to
time, make an inspection of each tattoo or body-piercing establishment granted
a permit under the provisions of this article, to determine that the provisions
of this article are complied with. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable
times and in a reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any person, as
defined in §
7-7-1, to fail to allow such inspection officer access to the premises, or to
hinder such officer in any manner.
   (B)   The city may contract with the Monroe County Health Inspector to
perform inspections regarding health conditions from time to time.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-11 EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor, manager or other person in
charge of any tattoo or body-piercing establishment to employ any person to
perform tattooing or body-piercing who is not at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-12 TRANSFER OF PERMIT.
   No permit for the operation of a tattoo or body-piercing establishment
issued pursuant to the provisions of this article and sections shall be
transferable.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-13 DISPLAY OF PERMIT, ORDINANCE, AND STATE CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   Every permittee shall display a valid permit, a copy of the Tattoo and/or
Body-Piercing Establishments Ordinance, and a valid state certificate of
registration in a conspicuous place within the tattoo and/or body-piercing
establishment so that persons entering the premises may readily see them.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-14 EMPLOYMENT OF TATTOOER(S) OR BODY-PIERCER(S).
   It shall be the responsibility of the permittee for the tattoo and/or body-
piercing establishment, or the employer or any persons purporting to act as
tattooer or body-piercer, to insure that each person employed as a tattooer or
body-piercer shall first have obtained a valid permit from the city pursuant to
this article and sections.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-15 AGE REQUIREMENT FOR TATTOOS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person licensed to
practice medicine in all its branches, to tattoo or offer to tattoo a person
under the age restriction established by State of Illinois law.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-16 AGE REQUIREMENT FOR BODY-PIERCING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pierce, or to offer to pierce, the
body of a person under the age restriction of 18, as established by ILCS Ch.
720, Act 5, §§ 10 - 12, without the written consent of a parent or legal
guardian who shall be present at the time of the piercing.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-18
§ 7-7-17 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Mayor may make and enforce reasonable rule and regulations not in
conflict with, but to carryout the intent of, this article and sections.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-18 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-19 MAINTAINING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any portion of a building used as a tattoo or body-piercing establishment in
violation of this article with the intentional, knowing, reckless or negligent
permission of the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner managing the
building, together with all fixtures and other property used in violation of
this article are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-20 GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS REGARDING TATTOOING AND/OR BODY PIERCING
(BODY ART).
   (A)   No art on or body piercing of the genitalia of minors, with or without
consent, shall be allowed.
   (B)   No piercing or tattooing of animals shall be allowed in body art
establishments.
   (C)   Pre-procedural consultation to discuss body art, its risks and
potential complications, shall be required with each client. All clients shall
sign an informed consent form. Clients shall be supplied a copy of the consent
form, and the consent form shall be kept on file by the body artist for a
minimum of one year.
   (D)   Clients should be told to consult with their physician regarding any
medical condition that could be exacerbated by the body art procedures (i.e.,
hemophilia, open sores, and the like).
   (E)   The procedure known as tongue splitting (splitting the tongue to make
it looked forked) is prohibited and it is unlawful for a tattooer or a body-
piercer to perform this procedure. This procedure shall be considered surgery
and shall only be done, for medical reasons, by a licensed doctor, surgeon or
dental surgeon.
   (F)   Patrons who admit to or are obviously under the influence of alcohol
or other judgment-altering drugs shall not receive body art.
   (G)   Body artists shall not be under the influence of any substance, legal
or illegal, that might impair their judgment or ability to properly perform
body art.
   (H)   Failure to comply with any of the above regulations may result in
immediate revocation of permit, and shall be subject to the general penalty
described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 7-7-21 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   The total number of tattoo or body-piercing establishments, as defined in
this article, shall not exceed one at any one time.
(Ord. 1551, passed 6-21-2010)
ARTICLE VIII: VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
Section
   
7-8-1   Definitions
   
7-8-2   Video gaming terminals allowed
   
7-8-3   Permit required
   
7-8-4   Filing of application and fee provisions
   
7-8-5   Display of permit
   
7-8-6   Right of entry
   
7-8-7   Violations and penalty
   
7-8-8   Gambling prohibited
   
7-8-9   Distribution of revenue
§ 7-8-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Illinois Gaming Board
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT.  Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises. LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT does not include a facility operated by an
organization licensee, an intertrack wagering licensee, an intertrack wagering
location licensee licensed under the Illinois Horse Racing Act of 1975, or a
riverboat licensed under the Riverboat Gambling Act.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT.  The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT. A facility that is at least a three-acre
facility, with a convenience store, separate diesel islands for fueling
commercial motor vehicles, and parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles as
defined in § 18b-101 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-
101.
   VIDEO GAMING ACT. ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as
authorized by the Board, utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which
the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The
term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash or tokens,
or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 7-8-2 VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ALLOWED.
   (A)   Video gaming terminals are permitted within the corporate limits of
the city only if licensed and registered by the Illinois Gaming Board under the
Video Gaming Act.
   (B)   The number of video gaming terminals permitted to be operated in each
establishment licensed by the Illinois Gaming Board at any time is the number
established by the Video Gaming Act.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-8-7
§ 7-8-3 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any video gaming terminal in any
licensed establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment, or licensed fraternal establishment within the corporate limits
of the city, without having first obtained a video gaming terminal permit
signed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Each video gaming terminal shall require a separate permit.
   (C)   No permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be
transferable or assignable.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-8-7
§ 7-8-4 FILING OF APPLICATION AND FEE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a permit to place a video gaming terminal in a
licensed establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment, or licensed fraternal establishment shall file an application
with the Municipal Clerk, upon a form provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   The fee for each permit required in §
7-8-3 shall be as shown in
Chapter 12, Fees, of this code of ordinances. In no case shall any portion of
the permit fee be refunded to the permittee.
   (C)   Each video gaming terminal permit issued pursuant to §§
7-8-3 and
7-8-4 shall terminate on April 30 of each year. The permittee shall be required
to apply for renewal of the permit between January 1 and March 31 of each year,
on a form provided by the Clerk.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-8-7
§ 7-8-5 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   Every permit issued shall be framed and hung in a conspicuous place in the
permitted premises.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-8-7
§ 7-8-6 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, has the power to, and shall
inspect any licensed establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, or licensed fraternal establishment within the
corporate limits of the city, at such times and intervals as he or she may deem
necessary for the proper enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 7-8-7 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
article shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 7-8-8 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to authorize, permit or license
any gaming device of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see § 7-7-8
§ 7-8-9 DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE.
   Permit fees and revenue received by the City of Waterloo, pursuant to ILCS
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 75, Revenue Sharing; Local Government Video Gaming
Distributive Fund, less costs of issuing video gaming terminal permits, shall
be used for expenditures for improvements to beautify the community and/or for
community relations as authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
ARTICLE IX: SPECIAL EVENTS - STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
7-9-1   Definitions
   
7-9-2   Permits
§ 7-9-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any outdoor or seasonal event including, but not limited to a
picnic, parade, carnival, craft fair, art fair, bicycle/motorcycle/ vehicle
ride, run/walk, car show, or any other event held on public property which is
open to attendance by the general public.
      THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES ARE EXCLUDED FROM ABOVE: solicitations on public
highways (§
7-2-10), merchandise and outdoor dining on public street/sidewalk (§ 33-2-12)
as addressed in their respective codes.
(Ord. 1719, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 7-9-2 PERMITS.
   No group, association or organization desiring to use public facilities for
a particular purpose, as defined in §
7-9-1, shall use any public facility without first obtaining a special events
permit.
   (A)   Applications for a special event permit must be filed with the City
Clerk no less than 30 days prior to the first day of the special event.
   (B)   Applicant must be over 18 years of age. Applicant and their attendees
must fully comply with the requirements of any special conditions attached to
the permit, rules, all local ordinances, codes and regulations, as well as all
state and federal laws.
   (C)   Final event details must be submitted at least thirty days before the
scheduled event. Details are to include all components of the event such as
type of event, entertainment, company name of inflatables or amusement rides,
sanitation, and electrical needs.
   (D)   Special event organizer must also provide for the sanitary collection
of all refuse, litter, and garbage generated by patrons attending the event,
and removal of all such waste materials from the location of the event in a
timely manner.
   (E)   The permit may be revoked or terminated at any time by the city if the
applicant and/or their attendees breach any of these rules, violates any other
laws, ordinances, rules or regulations, or if the city, in the exercise of its
sole and absolute discretion, deems it necessary to revoke the permit to ensure
the public’s health, safety, welfare, or enjoyment of the public property.
   (F)   Permission will be required for any person or group to bring and use
an electrical device with special power requirements.
   (G)   Applicant must provide the following information:
      (1)   Proof of liability insurance with the City of Waterloo named as an
additional insured in the minimum amount of $1,000,000 each occurrence/
$2,000,000 aggregate.
      (2)   Name and phone number of person in charge of event, and secondary
contact.
(Ord. 1719, passed 4-3-2017)
ARTICLE X:  MOBILE VENDORS
Section
   
7-10-1   Definitions
   
7-10-2   Mobile vendors allowed
   
7-10-3   Permit required
   
7-10-4   Filing of application and fee provisions
   
7-10-5   Display of permit
   
7-10-6   Hours and manner of operation
   
7-10-7   Sale of liquor prohibited
   
7-10-8   Vehicle appearance and maintenance
   
7-10-9   Peripheral setup
   
7-10-10   Public health standards
   
7-10-11   Permit non-transferable
   
7-10-12   Inapplicability of this Article X
§ 7-10-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY SPONSORED OR CITY SANCTIONED SPECIAL EVENT. Outdoor or seasonal events,
including the following: Mayfest, Chamber of Commerce Concert Series, Porta
Westfalica Festival, Monroe County Farmers Market, Monroe County Fairgrounds
property, Waterloo Homecoming, PumpkinFest, Waterloo Christmas Walk, and any
other city sponsored or sanctioned event approved by City Council.
   FOOD TRUCK. Any self-contained motorized vehicle from which any food, other
than frozen goods, or non-alcoholic beverages for immediate consumption are
prepared or served.
   FOOD TRUCK VENDOR. A person engaged in the business of selling food, other
than frozen goods, or non-alcoholic beverages from a “food truck” as defined
herein. A FOOD TRUCK VENDOR does not include any other type of vendor defined
in §
7-10-1.
   FROZEN GOODS. Ice cream, sorbet, sherbet, slush drinks, popsicles or any
other frozen food item of any sort.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK. Any self-contained motorized vehicle from which any frozen
goods for immediate consumption are prepared or served.
   ICE CREAM TRUCK VENDOR. A person engaged in the business of selling any
frozen goods from an ice cream truck as defined herein. An ice cream truck
vendor does not include any other type of vendor defined in §
7-10-1.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person who engages in selling and delivering goods
within the city, and who leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
tent, street, alley or other space within the city, for the exhibition and sale
of such goods; provided, however, that this definition does not include any
person who sells such goods from within an establishment operating permanent
retail sales of similar products. An ITINERANT VENDOR does not include any
other type of vendor defined in §
7-10-1.
   MOBILE VENDOR. Includes a food truck vendor, an ice cream truck vendor, an
itinerant vendor, and an other mobile truck vendor.
   OTHER MOBILE TRUCK. Any self-contained motorized vehicle from which any
tangible personal property or other item, other than food, beverages, or frozen
goods, are prepared, served, or sold.
   OTHER MOBILE TRUCK VENDOR. Any person who engages in selling, bartering, or
exchanging, or the offering for sale, barter, or exchange of any tangible
personal property or other item, other than food, beverages, or frozen goods,
upon or along the streets, highways, or public places of this municipality or
from house-to-house, whether at one place thereon or from place-to-place, from
an other mobile truck as defined herein. An OTHER MOBILE VENDOR does not
include any other type of vendor defined in §
7-10-1 .
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1732, passed 7-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1804,
passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855, passed 7-18-
2022; Am. Ord. 1906, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 7-10-2 MOBILE VENDORS ALLOWED.
   (A)   Food truck vendors are allowed in the following circumstances:
      (1)   As part of a city sponsored or city sanctioned special event; and
      (2)   Only at private events where the food truck operates as a caterer,
such as at a reception or party. The food truck must be parked and operated on
private property only. The food truck may not sell products to the public while
at a private event. The event must be a single-payer event with the host paying
for the food truck. Wrist bands or other forms of identification may be
provided to identify participating guests, but in no event shall these forms of
identification be sold at any price or distributed in conjunction with the
purchase of any item. The host may not be reimbursed by the guests at the
event.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any mobile vendor to peddle, sell, offer for
sale, exhibit for sale or for the purpose of taking orders for sale, fresh or
frozen meats, fresh or frozen seafood, or fresh or frozen fish within the city
limits.
   (C)   All food truck vendors, ice cream truck vendors and other mobile truck
vendors shall, prior to operating within the city limits, furnish to the city
proof, in the form of a declarations sheet, binder, or other documentation as
required by the city in its sole discretion, automobile insurance (with limits
of not less than $1,000,000 per person/$2,000,000 per occurrence) and
commercial liability insurance (with combined single limits of not less than
$1,000,000), and, further, naming the city as an additional insured. Said
insurance coverage shall be in place and maintained at all times during which
said vendor maintains a permit as required by this Article X or
Chapter 7, Article II of this Code.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1752, passed 2-20-2018; Am. Ord. 1804,
passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855, passed 7-18-
2022)
§ 7-10-3 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate as a food truck vendor or an itinerant vendor
within the city without having first secured a valid permit issued pursuant to
this Article X.
   (B)   No mobile vendor shall himself, or through any agent or employee,
while operating in the city, barter, sell, or peddle any goods, merchandise, or
wares other than those described for each applicable vendor defined in §
7-10-1.
   (C)   Any ice cream truck vendor or other mobile truck vendor shall be
exempt from obtaining a permit under this §
7-10-1, provided such vendor possesses a valid Certificate of Registration
issued in accordance with
Chapter 7, Article II of this Code.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 7-10-4 FILING OF APPLICATION AND FEE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every applicant for a permit shall file an application with the
Municipal Clerk, upon a form provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   The fee for each permit required in §
7-10-3 shall be as shown in
Chapter 12 Fees, of this Code of Ordinances. In no case, shall any portion of
the permit fee be refunded to the permittee.
   (C)   At the time of application hereunder, applicants shall simultaneously
submit proof of the following:
      (1)   Insurance as required in §
7-10-2(C);
      (2)   A current Illinois Retailer Occupation Tax Certificate;
      (3)   Current vehicle registration for any food truck, ice cream truck,
and/or other mobile truck; and
      (4)   Valid driver's licenses for all individuals who will be operating
any food truck.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-5 DISPLAY OF PERMIT.
   With the exception of itinerant vendors, every permit issued, or Solicitor's
Certificate of Registration, when applicable, shall be displayed on the vehicle
in close proximity to the pickup window on each mobile truck vendor. As for
itinerant vendors, every permit issued shall be maintained on the person of any
such vendor and shall be displayed to any private or public individual
immediately upon request.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-6 HOURS AND MANNER OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Food truck vendors may operate up to one hour prior to and up to one
hour after the hours the specific event is open to the public. Ice cream truck
vendors, itinerant vendors, and other mobile truck vendors may operate no
earlier than 30 minutes after sunrise, nor later than 30 minutes prior to
sunset.
   (B)   No food truck vendor, ice cream truck vendor, or other mobile truck
vendor shall be permitted to remain within 50 yards of any given location for
more than ten minutes on any given day. Further, no food truck vendor, ice
cream truck vendor, or other mobile truck vendor shall be permitted to conduct
business on any private property without the consent of the private property
owner.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-7 SALE OF LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   Selling or serving of liquor, including beer, wine, and any other alcoholic
beverages, by any mobile vendor is prohibited.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 7-10-8 VEHICLE APPEARANCE AND MAINTENANCE.
   All food trucks, ice cream trucks, and other mobile trucks shall be kept in
good mechanical and structural condition. Each such truck shall have a clean
exterior and interior and shall be equipped with signs to alert traffic to
proceed with caution past the vehicle while it is serving customers. Each truck
shall have the vendor name affixed to it in a professional, workmanlike manner,
and in letters that are a minimum of six inches in height. Generators and fuel
tanks shall be affixed to the truck and shall not be placed on the ground. No
truck shall be operated in violation of any federal, state, or local law or
regulation.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-9 PERIPHERAL SETUP.
   The following provisions apply to all mobile vendors:
   (A)   No tents, tables, chairs, or other displays shall be placed at the
designated vending area. Signage shall be limited to signs permanently or
magnetically affixed to trucks. One A-frame sign shall also be permitted. This
sign must be within ten feet of the truck and is limited to six square feet per
side (two-sides permitted).
   (B)   Mobile vendors are not permitted to connect to city water, electric,
or other utility to conduct business, unless approved by the city.
   (C)   When streets are not closed, mobile vendors shall only permit sales
from the curb side of the truck when parked on a city street. No service area
for the operation of mobile vendors shall block, obstruct, or interfere with
vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian traffic flow.
   (D)   Mobile vendors must also provide for the sanitary collection of all
refuse, litter, and garbage generated by patrons using the service, and remove
all such waste materials from the location before the truck departs.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-10 PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS.
   No food, food products, or beverages for public consumption shall be kept,
offered for sale, transported, or handled except in accordance with the rules
and regulations of the State of Illinois and the Monroe County Health
Department. If the Monroe County Health Department or State of Illinois
suspends or revokes any permit and/or license, the city’s mobile food vendor
permit shall hereby be revoked.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1855, passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-11 PERMIT NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit issued to any mobile vendor shall be transferable.
(Ord. 1720, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1826, passed 7-6-2021; Am. Ord. 1855,
passed 7-18-2022)
§ 7-10-12 INAPPLICABILITY OF THIS ARTICLE X.
   None of the provisions of this Article X shall in any way apply to any
business or vendor engaged in the delivery of any item previously ordered or
the sale of items along delivery routes where the individual purchaser has
previously requested the business or vendor to stop and deliver its items.
(Ord. 1855, passed 7-18-2022)
ARTICLE XI: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
7-11-1   Definitions
   
7-11-2   Cannabis business establishments prohibited
   
7-11-3   Public nuisance declared
   
7-11-4   Enforcement
§ 7-11-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this article,
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.101-0027),
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 1790, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 7-11-2 CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are prohibited in
the City of Waterloo, Illinois. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer,
allow to be operated or aid, abet or assist in the operation within the city of
any of the following:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter
(Ord. 1790, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 7-11-3 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the city
in violation of the provisions of this article is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 1790, passed 11-4-2019)
§ 7-11-4 ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of this article may be subject to the penalties set forth below:
   (A)   Upon the first conviction the payment of a fine not to exceed $500 and
court costs.
   (B)   Upon the second conviction the payment of a fine not to exceed $750
and court costs.
   (C)   Upon the third or subsequent conviction the payment of a fine not to
exceed $900 and court costs.
   (D)   Each day that a cannabis business establishment remains in business is
a separate offense and may be charged as such.
   (E)   In addition to above, the city may immediately file for injunctive
relief to cause violations of this Article XI to cease.
(Ord. 1790, passed 11-4-2019)
CHAPTER 11: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE I: C.D.A.P. FUNDS
Section
   
11-1-1   Purpose
   
11-1-2   Federal and state guidelines
   
11-1-3   Objectives
   
11-1-4   Decisions by Council
§ 11-1-1 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This article is intended to ensure that Community Development
Assistance Program (CDAP) grant funds repaid to the city are expended in
accordance with relevant state and federal laws and regulations and in a manner
which will maximize long-term returns to the city and its residents.
   (B)   The city agrees to ensure that administrative costs will not exceed
10% of the total recaptured funds, and that at least 51% of recaptured funds
will be used to benefit low- and moderate-income persons.
(1993 Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 786, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 11-1-2 FEDERAL AND STATE GUIDELINES.
   All CDAP funds repaid to the city shall be expended in accordance with all
relevant rules and regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development and the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs under authority of the “State's Small Cities Discretionary Community
Development Block Grant Program”.
(1993 Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 786, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 11-1-3 OBJECTIVES. 
   The objectives of the city's Recaptured Funds Strategy are as follows:
   (A)   To ensure availability of fully serviced industrial and commercial
sites for those businesses which have given the city firm commitment to expand
or locate in the city;
   (B)   To increase accessibility to long-term, fixed asset financing for new
or expanding businesses in the city; and
   (C)   To increase local employment opportunities, tax base and personal
income.
(1993 Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 786, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 11-1-4 DECISIONS BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Responsibility for decision-making on specific uses of recaptured
funds shall be vested with the City Council. In addition, the City Council is
empowered to establish policies and procedures for citizen involvement and use
advisory committees to solicit recommendations on the use of recaptured funds.
   (B)   Policies and procedures adopted by resolution by the Mayor and City
Council members shall incorporate the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Prior to the beginning of each city fiscal year an annual
Recaptured Funds Plan shall be prepared and adopted by the City Council. Such
plan will reflect citizen input, environmental considerations, and priorities
for reuse of recaptured funds in accordance with community needs and the
aforementioned state and federal regulations.
      (2)   Recaptured funds will be reserved for use in projects and programs
which contribute to the stabilization and expansion of the local economic base,
including any or all of the following uses:
         (a)   To finance critical public infrastructure improvements in
support of economic development;
         (b)   To capitalize a revolving loan fund for economic developments.
Loans shall be made to finance fixed assets of employment-generating firms.
Loans may be used in combination with other public/private lending sources or
programs.
         (c)   To finance administrative costs of the revolving loan fund and
planning costs of public infrastructure improvements, subject to a limit of 10%
of the total recaptured funds;
   (C)   Preference for uses of recaptured funds shall be given to activities
which benefit low-income and moderate-income individuals, as defined by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   (D)   Amendments, additions, deletions or changes to the Recaptured Funds
Use Ordinance shall be made by passage of another ordinance and shall become
effective upon approval by the Illinois Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs.
(1993 Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 786, passed 2-20-1989)
CHAPTER 12: FEES
ARTICLE I: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-1-1   Imposition of fees
   
12-1-2   Time of payment
   
12-1-3   Exemption of city
   
12-1-4   Waiver of fee
   
12-1-5   Refusal to issue licenses and permits
§ 12-1-1 IMPOSITION OF FEES.
   The following fees are hereby imposed with respect to the following:
Description Fee
Description                                                        Fee
                                                                   1.   The greater of $30 or $0.30 per sq. ft. for houses, buildings, pools,
                                                                   decks, sheds or similar structures. Square footage shall include the floor space
                                                                   of all perimeter additions, multi-stories, garages and accessory buildings.
                                                                   2.   The greater of $30 or $0.15 per lineal ft. for fences, retaining walls and
                                                                   similar structures.
                                                                   3.   For commercial remodeling or commercial build-outs, the greater of $0.30
                                                                   per square foot of improvement; $5 per $1,000 of cost of improvement; or a
(A)   Building permit                                           maximum of $7,000.
                                                                   4.   In addition to the payment of the aforementioned fees, an additional fee
                                                                   for inspection of construction at various stages of construction shall be paid
                                                                   in accordance with the following schedule:
                                                                      a.   $200 for residential construction.
                                                                      b.   $300 for business, commercial, industrial and other construction.
                                                                      c.   $50 for other inspections relating to demolition permits, swimming
                                                                   pools, decks, sheds and other structures.
                                                                   5.   In addition to the payment of the aforementioned fees, an additional fee
                                                                   for plumbing inspection at various stages of construction shall be paid in
                                                                   accordance with the following schedule:
                                                                      a.   $195 for residential construction (includes three inspections).
                                                                      b.   $65 per inspection for business, commercial, industrial and other
                                                                   construction.
(B)   Excavating permit                                            $75
(C)   Demolition permit                                            $75 plus $100 inspection fee
                                                                      (complete removal of debris and grading inspection)
(D)   Sign permit                                               $40 plus $1 per sq. ft. or fraction thereof for signs larger than 40 sq. ft.
(E)   Request for approval of preliminary plat                  1.   $400 plus $15 per lot.
                                                                   2.   50% of 1. above for each re-submission of a preliminary plat.
(F)   Request for approval of improvement plans                 Within city limits: 1.5% of estimated cost of improvements.
                                                                  Within 1½ mile radius: $500 plus $15 per lot.
(G)   Request for approval of final plat                        $200 plus $15 per lot.
Amended Final Plat or Re-Subdivision Plat
(H)   Request for special use permit                            $200
(I)   Request for zoning variance                               $200
(J)   Request for Zoning Code text amendment                    $200
(K)   Appeal under Zoning Code, Subdivision Code or Building Cod$200
(L)   Request for approval of single site commercial/industrial $1,000
plans
(M)   Request for Approval of Display House Plat                $200
(N)   Request for Approval of Condominium Development Plans:
   (1)   When drainage calculations are required by the city $1,000
   (2)   All other cases                                     $200
                                                                   8 ½ x 11"         $8
(O)   Map fees                                                  11" x 17"         $10
                                                                   24" x 36"         $20
                                                                   36" x 48"         $30
(P)   Document copy fees                                        Black and white: 8½" x 11",   First 50 pages - free
                                                                   8½" x 14" or 11" x 17"    Additional pages - $0.15 per side
                                                                   Color: 8½ x 11      $0.15 per side
                                                                   $25
                                                                   In addition to the payment of the aforementioned fee, an additional fee for the
(Q)   Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy         inspection required shall be paid in accordance with the following schedule:
                                                                   a.   $50 for inspection of each dwelling unit and/or commercial/industrial unit
                                                                   occupied.
                                                                   b.   $50 for each re-inspection.
(R)   Dumpster permit                                           Free
                                                                   $30 for renewal
(S)   Video gaming terminal permit                              $25 per video gaming terminal
(T)   Mobile food vendor permit                                 $35
 
(Ord. 1230, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1433,
passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 1493, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1526, passed 9-8-
2009; Am. Ord. 1539, passed 1-18-2010; Am. Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010; Am.
Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1717, passed 2-21-2017; Am. Ord. 1721,
passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1836, passed 12-20-2021)
§ 12-1-2 TIME OF PAYMENT.
   The fees provided for in §
12-1-1 shall be paid at the time of application or request made by the
applicant, if ascertainable at such time. When the amount of the fee is not
ascertainable at the time of application, the fee shall be paid at the time of
ascertainment, and no approval shall be issued with respect to a matter for
which a request has been made without the prior payment of the fee established
with respect to such matter.
(Ord. 1230, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 12-1-3 EXEMPTION OF CITY.
   The city shall be exempt from payment of any of the fees imposed by §
12-1-1.
(Ord. 1230, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 12-1-4 WAIVER OF FEE.
   All or part of the fees provided in §
12-1-1(A) through (C) may be waived by the City Council in its discretion, upon
application and for good cause shown by applicants that are established
exclusively for religious, governmental, educational, charitable, or other
purposes within the meaning of Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code,
as amended from time to time; however, no part of such fees may be waived which
is assignable to the cost of services rendered with respect to the processing
of such permits by persons or service providers that are not full-time
employees of the city.
(Ord. 1230, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 12-1-5 REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   The city may refuse to issue any license or permit referenced in this
Chapter 12 based upon the applicant's failure to pay any delinquent:
   (A)   Fine imposed by the city; or
   (B)   Penalty imposed by the city; or
   (C)   Liability for utility services provided by the city; or
   (D)   Liability for a money judgment issued in favor of the city.
(Ord. 1587, passed 10-24-2011)
CHAPTER 14: FLOODPLAIN CODE
ARTICLE I: FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
14-1-1   Purpose
   
14-1-2   Definitions
   
14-1-3   Base flood elevation
   
14-1-4   Duties of the Building Official
   
14-1-5   Building permit
   
14-1-6   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
14-1-7   Protecting buildings
   
14-1-8   Subdivision requirements
   
14-1-9   Public health and other standards
   
14-1-10   Variances
   
14-1-11   Disclaimer of liability
   
14-1-12   Penalty
   
14-1-13   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
14-1-14   Separability
§ 14-1-1 PURPOSE.
   This article is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2-1, 11-12-12, 11-30-2, 11-30-8, and
11-31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this article, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the “100-year flood”. The
base flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
14-1-3.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION or (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level
of the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof, including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings, and
gas or liquid storage tanks.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools, and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.  
      (1)   Any man-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (e)   Drilling, mining, filling, grading, excavating, paving or other
alterations of the ground surface;
         (f)   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (g)   Channel modifications, or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODPLAIN and SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). These terms are synonymous,
and are those lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are subject to
inundation by the base flood. The FLOODPLAINS of the city are generally
identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated September 24, 1984. The
FLOODPLAINS of those parts of unincorporated Monroe County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, or that may be annexed into the
city, are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared
for Monroe County by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated March
17, 2003. FLOODPLAIN also includes those areas of known flooding as identified
by the community.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry, floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOODWAY. That portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for each of the floodplains of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state, or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See “floodplain” as defined in this section.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is started.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure. The term does not, however, include either (1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or (2) any alteration of a structure listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic
Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-3 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   The protection standard for this article is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace the existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA
and IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains
delineated as an A Zone on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city shall be
according to the best data available from federal, state or other sources.
Should no other data exist, an engineering study must be financed to determine
base flood elevations.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of
unincorporated Monroe County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on
the 100-year flood profiles of the Flood Insurance Study of Monroe County,
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated March 17, 2003.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-4 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall be responsible for the general administration of
this article and shall ensure that all development activities within the
floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this
article. Specifically, the Building Official shall:
   (A)   Review requests for building permits in accordance with §
14-1-5 for compliance with the requirements of this article;
   (B)   Ensure that all development in a floodway, or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway, meets the damage prevention requirements of §
14-1-6;
   (C)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
14-1-7 are met and maintain a record of the “as-built” elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) or floodproof certificate;
   (D)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements of
§
14-1-8;
   (E)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the public
health standards of §
14-1-9;
   (F)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
14-1-10 are met and maintain documentation of any variances granted;
   (G)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions outlined
in §
14-1-12 as necessary to ensure compliance with this article;
   (H)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
   (I)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
   (J)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
   (K)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this article;
   (L)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits, and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this article;
   (M)   Perform site inspections and make substantial damage determinations
for structures within the floodplain; and
   (N)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/OWR
and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a modification
of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in a change to
the floodplain map.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-5 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the floodplain without first
obtaining a development permit from the Building Official. The Building
Official shall not issue a building permit if the proposed development does not
meet the requirements of this article.
   (B)   The application for a building permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
14-1-7.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a building permit, the Building
Official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to have been
higher than the base flood elevation and which has not been filled after the
date of the site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the floodplain and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this article. Conversely, any
development located on land shown to be below the base flood elevation and
hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood Insurance Rate Map
is subject to the provisions of this article. The Building Official shall
maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site
and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-6 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the city's floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply:
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated
development, will cause any increase in flood heights or velocities or threat
to public health and safety.
      (1)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No 6;
      (2)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (3)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (4)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (5)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (6)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
      (7)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
      (8)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13; and
      (9)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) of this
section shall be permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR, or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required; and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
Penalty, see § 14-1-12
§ 14-1-7 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
14-1-6, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building protection
requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration, which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of this article;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any repairs, which have taken
place subsequent to the adoption of this article;
      (4)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (5)   Repetitive loss to an existing building as defined in §
14-1-2(Q).
   (B)   Residential or nonresidential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent land fill in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor, including basement, shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and when necessary, stormwater management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated; or
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on piles, walls,
or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent openings on each
wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed, and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation, provided they are waterproofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later than modified or occupied
as habitable space.
      (3)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be kept on a
recreational site for more than 180 days.
      (4)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry floodproofed (in
lieu of elevation) provided a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
         (a)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
         (b)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration,
rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy, and
the impact from debris and ice;
         (c)   Floodproofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity. Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
      (5)   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use may be
permitted provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable;
         (b)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use;
         (c)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway;
         (d)   The garage or shed must be on a single family lot and be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot;
         (e)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built
of materials not susceptible to flood damage;
         (f)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical must be elevated above the flood protection elevation;
         (g)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on
each wall no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every square foot of floor area;
         (h)   The garage or shed must be less than $7,500 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet;
         (i)   The structure shall be anchored to resist floatation and
overturning;
         (j)   All flamable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection
elevation; and
         (k)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      (6)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade;
         (c)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade;
         (d)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point;
         (e)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period
of time after a flood event;
         (f)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         (g)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-8 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are known, in all official actions related to land management use and
development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, annexation agreements, planned unit developments,
and additions to subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building
protection standards of §§
14-1-6 and
14-1-7. Any proposal for such development shall include the following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain; where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation;
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the Plat Act, ILCS Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
Penalty, see § 14-1-12
§ 14-1-9 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
14-1-6 and
14-1-7, the following standards apply:
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants, or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a floodproofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or floodproofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
14-1-7.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage;
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters;
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above-ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation are watertight; and
      (5)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500–year flood elevation.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
Penalty, see § 14-1-12
§ 14-1-10 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this article place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the City Council for
a variance. The City Council shall review the applicant's request for a
variance and may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it deems
necessary to further the intent of this article.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The City Council or their designee shall notify an applicant in
writing that a variance from the requirements of the building protection
standards of §
14-1-7 that would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 for
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
14-1-7 requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair or alteration of
a site or building included on the National Register of Historic Places or the
Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted, using criteria more
permissive than the requirements of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5) of this
section.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this article is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This article does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This article does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from reliance on this article or any administrative decision made lawfully
thereunder.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 14-1-12 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this article. Upon due investigation, the Building
Official may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
article exists. The Building Official shall notify the owner in writing of such
violation.
   (B)   If such owner fails after ten days notice to correct the violation:
      (1)   The city may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this article, or to make such other order
as the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this article;
      (2)   Any person who violates this article shall be subject to the
general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances;
      (3)   The city may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (C)   The City Attorney may inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a willful act to increase flood damages, and therefore, may cause
coverage by a Standard Flood Insurance Policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 953, passed 3-6-1995; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 14-1-13 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This code repeals and replaces other codes adopted by the City Council to
fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program; however, this
code does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program. Nor does this code repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this code and other
ordinance easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
§ 14-1-14 SEPARABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this code shall be deemed separable and the
invalidity of any portion of this code shall not affect the validity of the
remainder.
CHAPTER 15: GAS AND OIL WELLS
ARTICLE I: GAS AND OIL WELL REGULATIONS
Section
   
15-1-1   Prohibited acts
   
15-1-2   Unlawful for abandoned well to remain open
   
15-1-3   Trucks hauling wastewater and the like
   
15-1-4   Nuisance
   
15-1-5   Penalty
§ 15-1-1 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful and an offense for any person, either for himself or acting
as agent, employee or servant of any other person, to engage in any work or to
erect any structures, tanks, machinery, pipelines or other appurtenances
incident to the drilling for or protection of petroleum or natural gas or to
operate, maintain or permit to exist any structures, tanks, machinery,
pipelines, equipment or appurtenances incident to such production, or to use or
maintain any property or premises for any of such purposes.
(1993 Code, § 15-1-1) (Ord. 779, passed 11-7-88)
Penalty, see § 15-1-5
§ 15-1-2 UNLAWFUL FOR ABANDONED WELL TO REMAIN OPEN.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful to permit any well drilled for oil, gas or
salt water disposal, or for any other purpose in connection with the production
of oil and gas to remain open or unplugged in violation of the requirements of
the Oil and Gas Division of the Illinois State Department of Mines and Minerals
after the completion of said well as a dry hole, or after the abandonment
thereof, or after a previously-producing oil well ceases to produce oil and/or
in commercial quantities and the production from same is no longer being
marketed.
(1993 Code, § 15-1-2)
Penalty, see § 15-1-5
§ 15-1-3 TRUCKS HAULING WASTEWATER AND THE LIKE.
   All trucks hauling oil, sludge water, salt water, petroleum products or by-
products shall be closed and leak-proof at all times, and the intake vent and
outlet valves and pump connections shall be watertight and leak-proof. The
operation of any truck engaged in the hauling of any of the products or by-
products mentioned in this section which permits leakage, seepage or drainage
of said products or by-products, salt water or sludge water is unlawful, and
the driver or operator of said truck shall be subjected to the penalties herein
provided. No person engaged in the hauling of salt water shall permit his
truck, vehicle or other instrument of conveyance to overflow or leak while
loading or after loading.
(1993 Code, § 15-1-3)
Penalty, see § 15-1-5
§ 15-1-4 NUISANCE. 
   The violation of any provision of this chapter is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(1993 Code, § 15-1-4)
§ 15-1-5 PENALTY. 
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 15-1-5) (Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
CHAPTER 16: HEALTH AND SAFETY
ARTICLE I: GARBAGE
Section
   
16-1-1   Definitions
   
16-1-2   License required
   
16-1-3   Application for license
   16-1-4 - 16-1-5   (Reserved)
   
16-1-6   Truck requirements; cleanliness and the like
   
16-1-7   Parked garbage truck
   
16-1-8   Truck wastewaters
   
16-1-9   Windblown garbage unlawful
   
16-1-10   Garbage falling from truck
   
16-1-11   Garbage on premises unlawful
   
16-1-12   Location of yards for equipment
   
16-1-13   Industry, construction and the like
   
16-1-14   Revocation of permit
   
16-1-15   Payment and penalty
§ 16-1-1 DEFINITIONS. 
   As used in this article, the words “garbage” and “rubbish” have the
following meanings:
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   RUBBISH. Combustible trash, including but not limited to paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture
and bedding; non-combustible trash, including but not limited to metals, tin
cans, metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete,
glass, crockery and other mineral waste; street rubbish, including but not
limited to street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch-basin dirt and contents of
litter receptacles; provided, however, that RUBBISH shall not include earth and
wastes from building operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting
from industrial processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing
wastes, boiler house cinders, lumber, scraps and shavings.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-1)
§ 16-1-2 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business as a residential or commercial
collector of garbage and rubbish unless first having made application and
secured a license from the city. The license shall be for the fiscal year of
the city, commencing on May 1 and expiring on April 30.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-2)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-3 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE. 
   Upon application for a license, the person applying for the same shall
furnish the City Clerk, along with the application, proof of insurance in the
amount of $300,000/$100,000 liability and property damage, and, at that time,
they shall file with the Clerk a rate schedule for services to be performed for
a residential application. The rate schedule shall set forth the type of
service to be offered and the price for same; including the size and number of
cans per pickup for the charge, the charge for any extra cans, the charge for
bags, the size of the bags and the charge for bundles and size of the bundles.
The rate schedule shall also include an unlimited service charge and shall set
forth whether this is once a week or twice a week pick-up. The rate schedule
shall also set forth the day or days of each week that the collector shall
schedule his pickup within the city. The rate schedule, as filed, shall be
valid for one year, and the licensee shall not be permitted to increase his
price on the schedule for a period of one year from the date of filing of the
rate schedule. The rate schedule shall be effective upon approval by the City
Council.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-3)
§§ 16-1-4 - 16-1-5 (RESERVED)
§ 16-1-6 TRUCK REQUIREMENTS; CLEANLINESS AND THE LIKE.
   The firm for the handling of collection of trash shall be of good character
and give evidence that the equipment used by him is adequate for the purposes
intended. The successful firm shall have a truck or trucks which shall be so
designed that garbage and rubbish that is collected will be covered at all
times or placed in containers that will be covered at all times, except in the
loading of garbage or rubbish, so that offensive odors are not permitted to
permeate the air and cause a nuisance within the city. The trucks and all
containers in which garbage is collected and transported shall be cleaned daily
and the collector shall not collect garbage on any day without having a clean
truck and hand containers, if containers are used.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-6)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-7 PARKED GARBAGE TRUCK.
   No truck carrying garbage or rubbish, or both, shall be parked or be
permitted to stand anywhere in the city, except as provided for in §
16-1-12, any longer than is necessary to pick up containers; providing that the
standing of such vehicle, when made necessary by mechanical trouble, traffic
conditions, accident or obedience to the direction of policemen or traffic
signals, shall not be considered a violation of this article.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-7)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-8 TRUCK WASTE WATERS. 
   A garbage truck or other equipment shall not be washed on city streets or
public property and will not be washed where the waste waters will cause any
offensive odors to adjoining property owners.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-8)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-9 WINDBLOWN GARBAGE UNLAWFUL. 
   It shall be unlawful to place garbage or rubbish in such a manner as to
allow same to be blown by the wind onto the property of other residents.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-9)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-10 GARBAGE FALLING FROM TRUCK. 
   It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to fall from any vehicle any
garbage, refuse or ashes on any public street or alley in the city; provided
that this article shall not be construed to prohibit placing garbage, refuse or
ashes in a container complying with the provisions of this article preparatory
to having such material collected and disposed of in the manner provided
herein.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-10)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-11 GARBAGE ON PREMISES UNLAWFUL.
   The fact that garbage or rubbish remains on an occupant's premises in the
city in violation of this article shall be prima facie evidence that the
occupant of such premises is responsible for the violations of the article
occurring.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-11)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-12 LOCATION OF YARDS FOR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   A licensee shall designate the location of the yards on which his
equipment will be parked while not in use, and the equipment shall not be
parked within the city limits, unless the designated location shall not, in the
opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, create any nuisance for adjoining
property owners.
   (B)   The licensee shall have, as additional equipment, a truck for the
disposal of large or unusual items or rubbish which cannot be placed in the
designated containers, and shall have available for such pickups such equipment
at least one day each week or on such additional days as may be necessary to
satisfy the needs of the public.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-12)
Penalty, see § 16-1-15
§ 16-1-13 INDUSTRY, CONSTRUCTION AND THE LIKE.
   Nothing in this article shall be deemed to prevent or regulate the hauling
of rubbish or refuse from industrial processes, from construction projects or
other matter not normally collected on a regular schedule, and haulers of
rubbish not normally collected in regular collections shall be excused from the
requirements of obtaining a collector's license as provided in this article.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-13)
§ 16-1-14 REVOCATION OF PERMIT. 
   If the licensee fails to perform any services according to his application
and rate schedule, the Mayor may revoke the permit.
(1993 Code, § 16-1-14)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-19 et seq.
§ 16-1-15 PAYMENT AND PENALTY.
   The fees for the collection of garbage and refuse shall be paid monthly in
an amount set for a calendar month by the City Council from time to time and
shall be payable on a monthly basis for each dwelling unit or business
establishment served. The occupant of such premises shall be liable for such
fees; however, if the occupant of such premises does not pay such fee, then the
owner of the premises shall be liable for, and obligated to pay such fees plus
any penalty due. Whenever a bill for such service is unpaid after it is due,
the Collector-Budget Officer shall order that the service for the garbage and
refuse removal be discontinued until the required fee plus any penalty are
paid, and shall notify the occupant of such premises of this fact; unless the
discontinuance of said garbage and refuse services would, in the judgment of
the Collector-Budget Officer, affect the public health of others. Failure of
the Collector-Budget Officer to so notify the occupant shall not in any way
invalidate the occupants' liability for said fee plus any penalty. Whenever
garbage and refuse service has been discontinued for premises for non-payment
of the fees therefor plus any penalty, no garbage or refuse service for such
premises shall be resumed until all delinquent fees and penalties are paid in
full.
(1993 Code § 16-1-15) (Ord. 824, passed 5-21-1990; Am. Ord. 839, passed 5-6-
1991; Am. Ord. 878, passed 12-7-1992; Am. Ord. 1213, passed 12-17-2001)
CHAPTER 20: LIBRARY
ARTICLE I: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
20-1-1   (Reserved)
   
20-1-2   Appointment of trustees; compensation
   
20-1-3   Term of office
   
20-1-4   Vacancies
   
20-1-5   Oath of office; meetings
   
20-1-6   Powers and duties
   
20-1-7   Additional powers and duties
   
20-1-8   Selection and use of library materials
   
20-1-9   Use of the library
   
20-1-10   Annual report
   
20-1-11   Donations
   
20-1-12   Other provisions
   
20-1-13   Library disturbance, injury to, and/or failure to return materials
§ 20-1-1 (RESERVED)
§ 20-1-2 APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall, with the approval of the City Council, appoint a
board of nine trustees chosen from city residents with reference to their
fitness for such office. Not more than one member of the City Council shall be
(at any one time) a member of the Library Board.
   (B)   Trustees shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for
their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties
from library funds.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-1; ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-5
§ 20-1-3 TERM OF OFFICE. 
   (A)   The first library trustees shall hold office as follows: one-third
shall serve for one year, one-third for two years, and one-third for three
years, from the first of July following their appointment. At their first
regular meeting, those trustees shall cast lots for the respective terms.
Annually thereafter, the Mayor shall, before the first of July of each year,
appoint as before three trustees to take the place of the retiring trustees.
The trustees appointed by the Mayor shall hold office for three years and until
their successors are appointed.
   (B)   The Mayor may remove any trustee in the manner provided in ILCS Ch.
65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-1.1
§ 20-1-4 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be declared in the office of a trustee by the Board when the
trustee declines or is unable to serve or is absent without cause from all
regular Board meetings for a period of one year, or is convicted of a
misdemeanor for failing, neglecting or refusing to discharge any duty imposed
upon a trustee by the Illinois Library Act (ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 5-1-.01 et
seq.) or becomes a nonresident of the city, or who fails to pay the library
taxes levied by the corporate authorities. Vacancies in the Board of Trustees
shall be reported to the Mayor and be filled by the Mayor in like manner as
original appointments.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-4
§ 20-1-5 OATH OF OFFICE; MEETINGS.
   (A)   Within 60 days after their appointment, the trustees shall take the
oath of office and meet to organize the Board. The required oath may be taken
and subscribed before the Secretary or Secretary pro tempore of the Library
Board, the County Clerk containing all or a larger portion of the library or
before any other person authorized to administer oaths.
   (B)   The first action taken at the organizational meeting of the Board
shall be the election of a President and a Secretary, and such other officers
as the Board may deem necessary, and the Board shall further provide in the
bylaws of the Board as to the length of the terms in office as per §
20-1-3. The trustees shall determine the time and place of all official
meetings of the Board, at which any legal action may be taken, and shall post
notice thereof at the public library maintained by the Board and at not less
than one public place within the corporate confines of the area of library
service one day in advance thereof.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-6
§ 20-1-6 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Library Trustees shall carry out the spirit and intent of the
Illinois Local Library Act in establishing, supporting and maintaining a public
library or libraries for providing library service and, in addition to but
without limiting other powers conferred by this chapter, shall have the
following powers:
   (A)   To make and adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations for their own
guidance and for the government of the library as may be expedient, not
inconsistent with the Illinois Local Library Act;
   (B)   To have the exclusive control of the expenditure of all moneys
collected for the library and deposited to the credit of the library fund;
   (C)   To have the exclusive control of the construction of any library
building and of the supervision, care and custody of the grounds, rooms or
buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose;
   (D)   To purchase or lease real or personal property and to construct an
appropriate building or buildings for the use of the library using, at the
Board's option, contracts providing for all or part of the consideration to be
paid through installments at stated intervals during a certain period not to
exceed 20 years with interest on the unpaid balance at any lawful rate for
municipal corporations in this state, except that contracts for installment
purchases of real estate shall provide for not more than 75% of the total
consideration to be repaid by installments, and to refund at any time any
installment contract entered into pursuant to this division (D) by means of a
refunding loan agreement, which may provide for installment payments of
principal and interest to be made at stated intervals during a certain period
not to exceed 20 years from the date of such refunding loan agreement, with
interest on the unpaid principal balance at any lawful rate for municipal
corporations in this state, except that no installment contract or refunding
loan agreement for the same property or construction project may exceed an
aggregate of 20 years;
   (E)   To remodel or reconstruct a building erected or purchased by the
Board, when such building is not adapted to its purposes or needs;
   (F)   To sell or otherwise dispose of any real or personal property that it
deems no longer necessary or useful for library purposes, and to lease to
others any real property not immediately useful, but for which plans for
ultimate use have been or will be adopted but the corporate authorities shall
have the first right to purchase or lease;
   (G)   To appoint and to fix the compensation of a qualified librarian, who
shall have the authority to hire such other employees as may be necessary, to
fix their compensation and to remove such employees, subject to the approval of
the Board. The Board may also retain counsel and professional consultants as
needed;
   (H)   To contract with any public or private corporation or entity for the
purpose of providing or receiving library service or of performing any and all
other acts necessary and proper to carry out the responsibilities, the spirit,
and the provisions of the Illinois Local Library Act. This contractual power
includes, but is not limited to participating in interstate library contracts
and library systems, contracting to supply library services, and expending of
any federal or state funds made available to the city for library purposes.
However, if a contract is for library services for persons without a public
library established under the provisions of this article, the terms of that
contract will recognize the principle of equity or cost of services to non-
residents expressed in this section, and will provide for the assumption by the
contracting party receiving the services of financial responsibility for the
loss of or damage to any library materials provided to non-residents under the
contract;
   (I)   To join with the board or boards of any one or more libraries in this
state in maintaining libraries, or for the maintenance of a common library or
common library services for participants, upon such terms as may be agreed upon
by and between the boards;
   (J)   To enter into contracts and to take title to any property acquired by
it for library purposes by the name and style of “The Board of Library Trustees
of the City of Waterloo” and by that name to sue and be sued.
   (K)   To exclude from the use of the library any person who willfully
violates the rules prescribed by the Board;
   (L)   To extend the privileges and use of the library, including the
borrowing of materials on an individual basis by persons residing outside of
the city. If the Board exercises this power, the privilege of library use shall
be upon such terms and conditions as the Board shall, from time to time, by its
regulations, prescribe, and for such privileges and use the Board shall charge
a nonresident fee at least equal to the cost paid by residents of the city,
with the cost to be determined according to the formula established by the
Illinois State Library. A person residing outside of a public library service
area must apply for a non-resident library card at the public library located
closest to the person’s principal residence. The non-resident cards shall allow
for borrowing privileges at all participating public libraries in the regional
library system. The non-resident fee shall not apply to privilege and use
provided under the terms of the library’s membership in a library system
operating under the provisions of the Illinois Library System Act, under the
terms of any reciprocal agreement with a public or private corporation or
entity providing a library service, or to a non-resident who as an individual
or as a partner, principal stockholder, or other joint owner owns taxable
property or is a senior administrative officer of a firm, business, or other
corporation owning taxable property within the city; upon the presentation of
the most recent tax bill upon that taxable property, provided that the
privilege and use of the library is extended to only one such non-resident for
each parcel of such taxable property. Nothing in this division requires any
public library to participate in the non-resident card reciprocal borrowing
program of a regional library system as provided for in this section;
   (M)   To exercise the power of eminent domain subject to the prior approval
of the corporate authorities under the provisions of the Illinois Local Library
Act.
   (N)   To join the public library as a member in the Illinois Library
Association and the American Library Association, nonprofit, non-political, 501
(c)(3) associations, as designated by the federal Internal Revenue Service,
having the purpose of library development and librarianship; to provide for the
payment of annual membership dues, fees and assessments and act by, through and
in the name of such instrumentality by providing and disseminating information
and research services, employing personnel and doing any and all other acts for
the purpose of improving library development;
   (O)   To invest funds pursuant to the Public Funds Investment Act.
   (P)   To accumulate and set apart as reserve funds, portions of the
unexpended balances of the proceeds received annually from taxes or other
sources for the purpose of providing self-insurance against liabilities
relating to the public library.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-7)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-1-1
§ 20-1-7 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to all other powers and authority now possessed by it, the Board
of Library Trustees shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To lease from any public building commission created pursuant to the
provisions of the Public Building Commission Act, as now or hereafter amended,
any real or personal property for library purposes for a period of time not
exceeding 20 years;
   (B)   To pay for the use of this leased property in accordance with the
terms of the lease and with the provisions of the Public Building Commission
Act, as now or hereafter amended;
   (C)   Such lease may be entered into without making a previous appropriation
for the expense thereby incurred. However, if the Board undertakes to pay all
or any part of the costs of operating and maintaining the property of a public
building commission as authorized in division (D) of this section, such
expenses of operation and maintenance shall be included in the annual budget of
such Board annually during the term of such undertaking;
   (D)   In addition, the board may undertake, either in the lease with a
public building commission or by separate agreement or contract with a public
building commission, to pay all or any part of the costs of maintaining and
operating the property of a public building commission for any period of time
not exceeding 40 years.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-8)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 50, Act 20, § 1; ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-
7.1
§ 20-1-8 SELECTION AND USE OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   The Board of Trustees may establish and review, at least biennially, a
written policy for the selection of library materials and the use of library
materials and facilities. No employee may be disciplined or dismissed for the
selection of library materials when the selection is made in good faith and in
accordance with the written policy required to be established pursuant to this
section.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-9)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-7.2
§ 20-1-9 USE OF THE LIBRARY.  
   The library shall be forever for the use of the residents and taxpayers of
the city, subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as the Library Board
may adopt in order to render the use of the library of the greatest benefit to
the greatest number of such residents and taxpayers.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-10)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-7
§ 20-1-10 ANNUAL REPORT. 
   Within 30 days after the expiration of each fiscal year of the municipality,
the Board of Trustees shall make a report of the condition of their trust on
the last day of the fiscal year to the City Council. This report shall be made
in writing and shall be verified under oath by the Secretary or some other
responsible officer of the Board of Trustees. It shall contain:
   (A)   An itemized statement of the various sums of money received from the
Library Fund and from other sources;
   (B)   An itemized statement of the objects and purposes for which those sums
of money have been expended;
   (C)   A statement of the number of books and periodicals available for use
and the number and character thereof circulated;
   (D)   A statement of the real and personal property acquired by legacy,
purchase, gift or otherwise;
   (E)   A statement of the character of any extensions of library service
which have been undertaken;
   (F)   A statement of the financial requirements of the library for the
ensuing fiscal year for inclusion in the appropriation of the city, and of the
amount of money which, in the judgment of the Library Board of Trustees, it
will be necessary to levy for library purposes in the next annual tax levy
ordinance;
   (G)   A statement as to the amount of accumulations and the reasons
therefor;
   (H)   A statement as to any outstanding liabilities, including those for
bonds still outstanding or amounts due for judgments, settlements, liability
insurance or for amounts due under a certificate of the Board;
   (I)   Any other statistics, information and suggestions that may be of
interest. A report shall also be filed, at the same time, with the Illinois
State Library.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-11)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-10
§ 20-1-11 DONATIONS.
   Any person or persons desiring to make donations of money, personal property
or real estate for the benefit of any library, may vest title to the donation
in the Board of Library Trustees receiving the donation, to be held and
controlled by such Trustees when accepted, according to the terms of the deed,
gift, devise or bequest of such donation. Such Board of Library Trustees shall
be held and considered to be a special trustee of such donated property.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 75
§ 20-1-12 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   The City Council does hereby include by reference, all provisions of ILCS
Ch. 75, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq., and other statutes applicable to the city library
that are not provided heretofore.
 § 20-1-13 LIBRARY DISTURBANCE, INJURY TO, AND/OR FAILURE TO RETURN MATERIALS. 
   (A)   Any person who shall create any disturbance while on library premises,
or who shall be guilty of any conduct calculated to annoy or disturb others on
said library premises, and who shall not cease said conduct when requested to
do so, as per library regulations, by the librarian or other person in charge
shall be subject to arrest under the provisions of this chapter, at the request
of the librarian.
   (B)   No person shall maliciously injure, deface or destroy any material
belonging to the public library. No person shall fail to return any material(s)
taken from the library at the time when, by the rules of the library, the same
should be returned. The person shall promptly pay the fine provided for by the
rules and regulations governing the library, as the same have been or may be
established by the Library Board of Trustees.
(1993 Code, § 20-1-13)
CHAPTER 21: LIQUOR
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
21-1-1   Definitions
   
21-1-2   Construction of terms
§ 21-1-1 DEFINITIONS. 
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the words and phrases herein defined
are used in this chapter in the sense given them in the following definitions:
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by human beings. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with Acts of Congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by
volume.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   CLOSE. To shut up so as to prevent entrance or access by any person; and the
entire suspension of business.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building of such extent and character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining space and equipment, and maintaining a sufficient number of servants and
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided that such club files with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two copies of a list of names and
residences of its members, and similarly files within ten days of the election
of any additional member, his or her name and address, and provided further
that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting and that no member or officer, agent or employee of the club is paid,
or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or other compensation,
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or
its members or guests introduced by members, beyond the amount of such salary
as may be fixed and voted at the annual meeting by the members or by the board
of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
   DAY. From the time the licensee is allowed to open, until the time the
licensee must close.
   MAYOR. The local Liquor Control Commissioner as provided in ILCS Ch. 235,
and all references to Liquor Commissioner shall refer to the Mayor unless
otherwise provided.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, carton, cask, barrel, keg or
other receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any public place where packaged liquors are offered
for sale in the original, unopened container for consumption away from the
premises.
   PACKAGED SALES. The sale or offering for sale of alcoholic liquor in the
original package, unaltered in any way and not to be consumed or in fact
consumed in whole or in part on the premises where sold.
   PUBLIC PLACE or PUBLIC PREMISES. Any premises enclosed or unenclosed or
partly enclosed and partly unenclosed wherein any service or goods, chattels or
merchandise are offered for sale to the public, or any such premises used as a
clubhouse, club room or meeting place. The terms PUBLIC PLACE and PUBLIC
PREMISES shall be interchangeable for the purposes of this chapter.
   RESIDENT. One who has his or her residence in this municipality and is a
registered voter at that place of residence.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served and where meals actually are
served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being
provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests, and where more than
50% of the gross receipts are obtained from the sale of foodstuffs; except the
term RESTAURANT shall not include a public place wherein liquor is sold for
consumption off the premises.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE OF RETAIL. Shall refer to any mean sales for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
   TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to
sell.
   TOTAL POPULATION. The population determined by the most recent official
federal census.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits as above defined.
(1993 Code, § 21-1-1) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 802, passed 8-21-1989; Am. Ord.
1727, passed 5-1-2017)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-3.01 et seq.
§ 21-1-2 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this
Chapter 21, the provisions, words and phrases used in this
Chapter 21 shall be construed consistently and in accordance with the Liquor
Control Act of 1934 as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1051, passed 11-24-1997)
ARTICLE II: LICENSES
Section
   
21-2-1   License required
   
21-2-2   Applications
   
21-2-3   Examination of applicant
   
21-2-4   Prohibited licenses
   
21-2-5   Term of license; disposition of fees
   
21-2-6   License classification, fees, numbers
   
21-2-7   Nature of license
   
21-2-8   Limitation of licenses
   
21-2-9   Display of license
   
21-2-10   Record of licenses
§ 21-2-1 LICENSE REQUIRED. 
   (A)   No person shall sell, keep or offer for sale at retail, or conduct any
place for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor within the limits and
territory of this municipality without having a license to do so issued by the
Mayor of this municipality in the manner hereinafter provided, and a valid
license for such purpose issued by the Illinois Liquor Control Commissioner.
The Mayor may withhold action on the application for 15 days for investigation
of the application file before finally taking action thereon.
   (B)   In the event the Mayor, after his investigation as provided herein,
has any question concerning the eligibility of the particular applicant to
receive a license under this code, then said Mayor shall confer with a special
Liquor Advisory Committee. This Committee shall be appointed by the Mayor and
shall consist of two Aldermen and the City Attorney. In the event the Mayor has
asked the advice of his Advisory Committee, then no final action shall be taken
on the application until the Advisory Committee has met and made its
recommendations to the Mayor; provided, however that the final decision
concerning the issuance of the license shall be made by the Mayor.
   (C)   A similar valid license issued by the Mayor of this municipality is
hereby required for and with respect to each building, location and premises
within the aforesaid territory of this municipality at or upon which alcoholic
liquor is to be sold or kept or offered for sale at retail.
(1993 Code, § 21-2-1) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-2-2 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to grant and issue licenses to individuals,
firms and corporations to sell at retail and to keep and offer for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors within the limits and territory of this municipality
upon the conditions and in the manner provided by this chapter and by the Act
of the General Assembly of Illinois and not otherwise. Such license shall be in
writing, signed by the Mayor and attested by the Municipal Clerk, with the seal
of the Mayor's office affixed thereto.
   (B)   Prior to issuance of a license, the applicant must submit to the Mayor
an application in triplicate, in writing and under oath, stating the following:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors and the name of the person who will be
managing the establishment for which the license is sought, and if a majority
in interest of the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or
her nominee, the address and name of such person.
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant, and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been engaged in the
business of that character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which
its charter was issued;
      (5)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
other license on premises other than described in the application and the
disposition of such application;
      (7)   That the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is not
disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing contained in
the aforesaid Act of the General Assembly or in this chapter or resolution and
amendments thereto;
      (8)   Whether a previous license issued to the applicant by any state or
subdivision thereof or by the federal government has been revoked, and the
reasons therefor;
      (9)   That he or she will not violate any of the laws of the State of
Illinois or of the United States, or any of the provisions of this chapter or
resolution and amendments thereto in the conduct of his or her place of
business.
   (C)   In the case of a partnership or corporation, the information and
statements required by this section shall be furnished as to each partner, and
with respect to a corporation, the information and statements required by this
section shall be furnished as to the president of the corporation, the
secretary of the corporation, the directors of the corporation, and with
respect to the person who is to manage the establishment for which a license is
sought.
   (D)   If the application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two members of such partnership, firm, association or club or by the
president and secretary of such corporation.
   (E)   One copy of the application shall be retained by the Mayor and one
copy given to the Chief of Police; the Chief of Police shall endorse on the
copies his or her approval or disapproval of the application, and may make
further comments regarding that application. The copies shall be returned to
the Mayor and the endorsement and comment of the Chief of Police shall be
considered by him or her as an aid in deciding whether the license should be
issued or refused.
(1993 Code, § 21-2-2) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-1
§ 21-2-3 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT.
   The local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension
has been served in the manner hereinafter provided, and to examine or cause to
be examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear
testimony and take proof for his information in the performance of his duties,
and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he may authorize his
agent to act on his 2005 S-1behalf.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-5) (1993 Code, § 21-2-3) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975;
Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-2-4 PROHIBITED LICENSEES.
   Except as otherwise provided in ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-2(b) and in ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 3-12(a)(1), no license of any kind issued by the State
Commission or any local commission shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident this municipality; except in case of
railroad or boat licenses;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the Commission determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and the Commission's investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this Act has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political subdivision,
unless residency is required by local ordinance;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K)   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983 to transact business in Illinois;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter or has forfeited his bond to appear
in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of the city council or
commission, any president of the village board of trustees, any member of a
village board of trustees, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture, sale, or
distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that are not located within the territory
subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the issuance of such license is
approved by the State Liquor Control Commission and the Mayor;
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   (Q)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of Section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by Section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 1961, or as proscribed by a
statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   (R)   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles Act or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-2) (1993 Code, § 21-2-4) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975;
Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see
Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-2-5 TERM OF LICENSE; DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   (A)    Retail liquor licenses issued under this code shall be valid for 12-
month periods upon the payment of the license fee as hereinbefore set forth,
unless sooner revoked or suspended. The 12-month period shall be from July 1 of
each year to June 30 of the following year.
   (B)   The annual license fee for each 12-month period shall be payable in
advance by the applicant for a license at the time the application for a
license is submitted to the local Liquor Control Commissioner as hereinbefore
provided. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. In the event the license is denied, the license fee shall be returned
to the applicant. The fees shall be deposited to the Municipal Treasurer, who
shall deposit the fees in the Municipal General Fund. The application for a
license shall be filed with the Municipal Clerk. The fees, at the discretion of
the local Liquor Control Commissioner, may be paid in quarterly installments.
   (C)   Licenses shall state thereon the names of the licensees and the
address and description of the premises for which they are granted and the
dates of their issuance and expiration.
   (D)   With respect to a corporation operating an establishment for which a
liquor license has been issued, should the manager of said establishment change
after the issuance of said liquor license, the corporation must submit the new
manager's name and shall be submitted within 30 days. Continuation of the
license will be contingent upon a background check of the new manager as set
out in this chapter, and all fees shall be waived should the license be changed
only as a result of a change of managers. If for some reason the manager is not
acceptable, the licensee shall have 30 days to submit a new name before
revocation. Failure to provide new information shall be grounds for suspension
or revocation of said license.
(1993 Code, § 21-2-5) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-2-6 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION, FEES, NUMBERS. 
   Licenses shall be divided into the following classifications:
   (A)   Class A (bar establishments). A Class A licensee may not display
alcoholic beverages on shelves or in free-standing displays in areas accessible
to patrons consuming alcohol on the premises. No Class A license shall be
issued except to a licensee who actually sells at retail alcoholic liquor for
consumption both on and off the premises where sold. Bar establishments will
generate more than 25% of revenues from the sale of food and alcohol consumed
on premises. Video gaming is permitted. The annual fee for a Class A license
shall be $200 (two hundred dollars), and the number allowed is unlimited.
   (B)   Class B (restaurants). A Class B license may be issued to
establishments that have and utilize a full-service kitchen for serving food
for consumption both on and off the premises. No Class B license shall be
issued except to a licensee who actually sells at retail alcoholic liquor for
consumption both on and off the premises where sold. Licensee must be able to
show that more than 25% of projected sales are from food and alcoholic liquor
consumed on the premises. Video gaming is permitted. The annual fee for a Class
B license shall be $200 and the number allowed is unlimited.
   (C)   Class C (retail). Class C licenses shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor in the original form, unaltered in any way, as packaged sales for
consumption off the premises where sold. In no event shall sales of a single
can of beer of 16 ounces or less, or a single bottle of beer of 16 ounces or
less be permitted. Video gaming is not permitted. The annual fee for a Class C
license shall be $200, and the number allowed is unlimited.
   (D)   Class D (not-for-profit organizations). A Class D license shall permit
the sale or dealing at retail in alcoholic liquor by a religious organization
or a not-for-profit organization. No Class D license shall be issued until the
Liquor Control Commissioner has satisfied himself the club or organization
applying for the license is actually and in fact organized for some purpose or
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor. Video gaming is
permitted. The annual fee for a Class D license shall be $200, and the number
allowed is unlimited.
   (E)   Class E (daily not-for-profit organizations). Upon application, the
Liquor Control Commissioner
is authorized to issue a Class E daily license to any charitable organization
which desires to keep any place selling or offering for sale or in any manner
dealing in alcoholic liquors either on premises or any special off-premises
event(s). The daily fee for a Class E license shall be $10, and the number
allowed is unlimited.
   (F)   Class F (daily, for profit organizations). Upon application, the
Liquor Control Commissioner is authorized to issue a Class F daily license to
any current retail licensee (including but not limited to Class A or Class B
above) to hold any special off-premises event(s). The daily fee for a Class F
license shall be $25, and the number allowed is unlimited.
   (G)   Class G (convenience stores - with video poker). Class G licenses
shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original form, unaltered in
any way, as packaged sales for consumption off the premises where sold. In no
event shall sales of a single can of beer of 16 ounces or less, or a single
bottle of beer of 16 ounces or less be permitted. The Class G licensee may
however sell at retail alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where
sold when served in an area used for video poker. All requirements for video
poker must be observed when serving alcoholic liquor for consumption on
premises. Video gaming is permitted. The annual fee for a Class G license shall
be $2,000, and the number of permits is limited to six.
      (1)   Class G.1 (convenience stores - no video poker). Class G licenses
shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor in the original form, unaltered in
any way, as packaged sales for consumption off the premises where sold. In no
event shall sales of a single can of beer of 16 ounces or less, or a single
bottle of beer of 16 ounces or less be permitted. Video Gaming is not
permitted. The annual fee for a Class G.1 license shall be $200, and the number
of permits is unlimited.
   (H)   Class H (gaming parlor). A Class H license may be issued to
establishments that have food services but do not have a full-service kitchen
for serving food. The establishment will also have licenses for the operation
of video poker on the premises. Gaming parlors will generate less than 25% of
their revenue from the sale of food and alcohol consumed on premises. Alcoholic
liquor sold on the premises must be consumed on the premises and are not
permitted for off premise consumption. The annual fee for a Class H license
shall be $2,000 and the number of permits is limited to three.
(Ord. 1747, passed 1-15-2018)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-2-7 NATURE OF LICENSE. 
   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issuance, except a non-beverage user's
license, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee, provided that executors or administrators
of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may
continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-1) (1993 Code, § 21-2-7) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975;
Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Editor's note:
   See Attorney General's Report No. 703; 1-8-48
§ 21-2-8 LIMITATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Annexing license holders. The restrictions contained in this chapter
shall in no way affect taverns and other business(es) holding retail liquor
licenses, duly licensed by the county, which are located in the territory
annexed to the municipality. Licenses may be issued to them or renewed by the
duly constituted authorities upon annexation; provided that thereafter, all of
the restrictions and contingencies contained herein shall apply.
   (B)   Destroyed or damaged business.  
      (1)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of fees
by any person, firm or corporation for a period longer than 90 days without a
tavern or liquor business for the same being in complete and full operation.
However, if a tavern or liquor business has been destroyed or damaged by fire
or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or repaired within the 90-day period, then,
in that event, the Mayor shall extend the period of time for which a liquor
license may be held by the mere payment of fees without the tavern or liquor
business being in full and complete operation for an additional 90 days.
      (2)   If either of the above stated periods of time passes without the
particular tavern or liquor business returning to complete and full operation,
the license for that particular business shall expire and not be subject to
renewal, unless all other requirements of this chapter shall have been met.
(1993 Code, § 21-2-8) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 652, passed 8-4-1980)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-2-9 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license to be
framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-24) (1993 Code, § 21-2-9) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-2-10 RECORD OF LICENSES. 
   The Mayor shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her
and shall supply the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police a copy of the same.
Upon issuance or revocation of a license, the Mayor shall give written notice
to these same officers within 48 hours.
(1993 Code, § 21-2-10) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
ARTICLE III: REGULATIONS
Section
   
21-3-1   Hours for sale, consumption and vacating of premises
   
21-3-2   Happy hour restrictions
   
21-3-3   Prohibited locations
   
21-3-4   Change of location
   
21-3-5   Stores selling school supplies, lunches and the like
   
21-3-6   Transporting in motor vehicles
   
21-3-7   Open liquor; cup-to-go prohibited
   
21-3-8   Liquor in vehicles; underage
   
21-3-9   Restricted residential areas
   
21-3-10   Election days
   
21-3-11   Unlawful acts
   
21-3-12   Unlawful entertainment
   
21-3-13   Sanitary conditions
   
21-3-14   Diseased employees
   
21-3-15   Health permit
   
21-3-16   Peddling
   
21-3-17   Gambling
   
21-3-18   Disorderly house
   
21-3-19   Prohibited sales; generally
   
21-3-20   Persons selling liquor
   
21-3-21   Minors; entry on licensed premises
   
21-3-22   Unlawful purchase of liquor
   
21-3-23   Identification required
   
21-3-24   Transfer of identification card
   
21-3-25   Posting warning
   
21-3-26   Exclusionary provision
   
21-3-27   Inspections
   
21-3-28   Books and records; available upon reasonable notice and maintained in
state records
   
21-3-29   Restrictions on licensee
   
21-3-30   Selling false identification
   
21-3-31   False identification
   
21-3-32   Underage drinking on streets
   
21-3-33   Residential drinking
§ 21-3-1 HOURS FOR SALE, CONSUMPTION AND VACATING OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Sale. It shall be unlawful for all classes of licensees to sell or
offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor in the city between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Consumption on premises. Alcoholic liquor may be consumed on the
premises of Class A, B, D and E licensees between the hours of 6:00 a.m. on one
day and 1:00 a.m. the succeeding day. Alcoholic liquor purchased prior to 1:00
a.m. must be consumed on premises prior to 1:30 a.m.
   (C)   Vacating of premises. Patrons of Class A, D and E licensees must
vacate said premises by 1:30 a.m.
   (D)   Liquor Commissioner's discretion. All of the above is subject to
change in the interest of public safety in the discretion of the Liquor
Commissioner.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-1) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 802, passed 8-21-1989; Am. Ord.
1051, passed 11-24-1997; Am. Ord. 1462, passed 12-17-2007) Penalty, see Ch. 21,
Art. IV
§ 21-3-2 HAPPY HOUR RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged
for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served and consumed on the licensed
premises or in any room or part thereof. Whenever a hotel or multi-use
establishment which holds a valid retailer's license operates on its premises
more than one establishment at which drinks of alcoholic liquor are sold at
retail, the hotel or multi-use establishment shall maintain at each such
establishment a separate schedule of the prices charged for such drinks at that
establishment.
   (B)   No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      (1)   Serve two or more drinks of alcoholic liquor at one time to one
person for consumption by that one person, except conducting product sampling
pursuant to ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-31 or selling or delivering wine by the
bottle or carafe;
      (2)   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the general public;
      (3)   Sell, offer to sell or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, except as authorized in division (C)
(7) of this section;
      (4)   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink, or
the size of a drink of alcoholic liquor, without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for the drink on that day;
      (5)   Encourage or permit, on the licensed premises, any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises; or
      (6)   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the practices prohibited under divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
of this section.
   (C)    Nothing in division (B) shall be construed to prohibit a licensee
from:
      (1)   Offering free food or entertainment at any time;
      (2)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a meal package;
      (3)   Including drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a hotel package;
      (4)   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract
between a hotel or multi-use establishment and another group for the holding of
any function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      (5)   Providing room service to persons renting rooms at a hotel;
      (6)   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent, including but not limited to
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner, or selling bottles of spirits, and delivered to two or more
persons at one time; or
      (7)   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in
whole or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment
not regularly scheduled.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of the retailer's license as provided by Article IV of this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-28) (1993 Code, § 21-3-2) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-3 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for the sale of any alcoholic liquor at
retail within 100 feet of any church, school (other than an institution of
higher learning), hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station; provided
that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the taking effect of this chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on the premises within 100 feet of any
church or school where such church or school has been established within such
100 feet since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church,
the distance of 100 feet shall be measured to the nearest part of any building
used for worship services or educational programs and not to property
boundaries.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-11) (1993 Code, § 21-3-3) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-4 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor
only on the premises described in the application and license. Such location
may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this state and the code of this municipality.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-4) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-5 STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-12) (1993 Code, § 21-3-5) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-6 TRANSPORTING IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall within this municipality transport, carry, possess or have
any alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle in or on any public
street, alley or place, except in the original package and with the seal
unbroken.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-6) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-7 OPEN LIQUOR; CUP-TO-GO PROHIBITED.
   The licensee shall not knowingly permit any person to leave his or her
premises with open liquor or in a “cup-to-go”.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-7) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-8 LIQUOR IN VEHICLES; UNDERAGE.
   The presence in a vehicle other than a public vehicle of any alcoholic
liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of and is
being carried by all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of which such
alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants therein;
or
   (B)   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over 21 years of age.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-8) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-9 RESTRICTED RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish a retail liquor business within the
municipality in violation of the restrictions of the Zoning Code.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-9) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-10 ELECTION DAYS. 
   All such licensees may sell alcoholic liquor at retail, by the drink or in
the original package for consumption either on or off the premises licensed on
the day of any national, state, county or municipal election, including primary
elections during the hours the polls are open within the political area in
which such election is being held and on Sundays; subject to all the remaining
terms, conditions and opening hours and closing hours as set forth in this
chapter.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-10) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-3-11 UNLAWFUL ACTS. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drink any alcoholic liquors on any
public street, alley or sidewalk without special permission granted by the City
Council, or as permitted in § 33-2-9 or § 33-2-12 of this code.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-11) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 1598, passed 2-27-2012)
Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16
§ 21-3-12 UNLAWFUL ENTERTAINMENT. 
   (A)   No licensee, his agent, servant or employee shall permit or allow any
lewd or lascivious act or any topless and/or bottomless employee and/or
employees or entertainment to be performed within the licensed premises by an
entertainer employed therein or by any employee or guest. TOPLESS shall be
defined as naked and substantially without clothing or covering of the body
from the waist to the neckline, and BOTTOMLESS shall be defined as naked and
substantially without clothing or covering of the body from the waist downward.
   (B)   Nor shall any licensee, his agent, servant or employee permit or allow
any employee or guest or any other person whomever to solicit or encourage the
purchasing of any alcoholic liquor or beverage of any description, or the
giving of any gratuity or gift by any patron or guest to or for the benefit of
such employee or guest.
   (C)   The following kinds of conduct on premises in this municipality
licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are prohibited:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation or any sexual
acts;
      (2)   The actual or simulated exhibition, touching, caressing or fondling
of the breasts, buttocks, pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breasts, buttocks, pubic
hair, anus, vulva or genitals;
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to view any portion of his or her breasts,
buttocks, genitals, vulva or anus;
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which are prohibited by the regulations quoted in this section.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-12) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-13 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the codes regulating the condition of
the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-13) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 650, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 21-3-14 DISEASED EMPLOYEES. 
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious disease, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful
for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work
in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation
or distribution of such liquor.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-14) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 410, Act 650, § 10
§ 21-3-15 HEALTH PERMIT.
   Every licensee shall have at all times a valid operating permit from the
County Health Department which regulates health standards.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-15) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-16 PEDDLING. 
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in this municipality.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-16) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-3-17 GAMBLING. 
   (A)   It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device
or instrument in and upon the premises used or occupied as a place where
alcoholic liquor is sold or given away.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter or code shall prohibit the lawful and licensed
operation of video gaming terminals as defined in ILCS Ch. 230, Act 40.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-17) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 1563, passed 10-18-2010)
Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1
§ 21-3-18 DISORDERLY HOUSE. 
   Any person licensed under this chapter shall not suffer or permit any
disorder, drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or
disorderly conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for
the sale of liquor.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-18) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-3-19 PROHIBITED SALES; GENERALLY. 
   No licensee, nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person, or to any
person known by him to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-19) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 642, passed 2-18-1980) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16
§ 21-3-20 PERSONS SELLING LIQUOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to attend any
bar or to sell, draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail
premises.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-20) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 802, passed 8-21-1989) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-3-21 MINORS; ENTRY ON LICENSED PREMISES. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to enter
upon premises where alcoholic liquors, spirits, beer or wine are sold by the
holder of a Class A liquor license, unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian, or any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale of services or other commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No holder of a liquor license, nor any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee shall permit any person
under the age of 18 years not accompanied by a parent or legal guardian to
enter the licensed premises. For the purpose of preventing the violation of
this section, any holder of a liquor license or his or her agent or employee
may refuse to permit entry onto the licensed premises of any person under the
age of 18 years who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of the fact
that the person accompanying such person under the age of 18 years is that
person's parent or guardian.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-21) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1
§ 21-3-22 UNLAWFUL PURCHASE OF LIQUOR. 
   Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is
prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a gift of such alcoholic
liquor or have such alcoholic liquor in his or her possession.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(a)) (1993 Code, § 21-3-22) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-23 IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED. 
   (A)   If a licensee or his or her agents or employees believe or have reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of the age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(b))
   (B)   Proof that the defendant/licensee or his or her employees or agent
demanded, was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is competent evidence and may be
considered in any criminal prosecution therefor or in any proceedings for the
suspension or revocation of any license based thereon.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-23) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-24 TRANSFER OF IDENTIFICATION CARD.
   No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card, use
the identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged
identification card, or obtain an identification card by means of false
information. No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this chapter. The consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any person under the age of 21 years is forbidden.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(c), (d), (e)) (1993 Code, § 21-3-24) (Ord. 543,
passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-
1976) Penalty, see
Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-25 POSTING WARNING.
   In every licensed business where alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be
displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card, which shall be
supplied by the Municipal Clerk, and which shall read as follows:
UNDERAGE LIQUOR WARNING
“YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO $750 UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF THIS MUNICIPALITY
IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR MISREPRESENT YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PURCHASING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.”
(1993 Code, § 21-3-25) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-26 EXCLUSIONARY PROVISION. 
   The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under 21 years of
age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony,
or the consumption by a person under 21 years of age under the direct
supervision and approval of the parent or parents of such person under 21 years
of age in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this chapter.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(g)) (1993 Code, § 21-3-26) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-3-27 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant admittance to the premises for which
a license has been issued at any time upon the verbal request of the Chief of
Police, any police officer or the Liquor Control Commissioner for the purpose
of making an inspection of such premises or any part thereof.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-27) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4
§ 21-3-28 BOOKS AND RECORDS; AVAILABLE UPON REASONABLE NOTICE AND MAINTAINED IN
STATE RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of every retail licensee to make books and records
available upon reasonable notice for the purpose of investigation and control
by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission or the Mayor having jurisdiction over
the licensee. Such books and records need not be maintained on the licensed
premises, but must be maintained in the State of Illinois.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-10) (1993 Code, § 21-3-28) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-29 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE.
   In addition to the restrictions on licensing, the holder of a license is
subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any license to accept, receive or borrow money or
anything of value directly or indirectly from any manufacturer or distributor
of alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   No licensee licensed under the provisions of this code shall deny or
permit his agents or employees to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment
of the accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any premises in
which alcoholic liquors are authorized to be sold, subject only to the
conditions and limitations established by law, and applicable alike to all
citizens.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-17)
   (C)   No license shall sell liquor to any persons on credit or in payment
for services rendered, but this does not apply to clubs and hotels and liquor
purchased for consumption off the premises.
   (D)   No person except a manufacturer or distributor, or importing
distributor, shall fill or refill, in whole or in part, any original package of
alcoholic liquor with the same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic
liquor, and it shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession for
sale at retail any bottles, casks or other containers containing alcoholic
liquor, except in original packages.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-22)
   (E)   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold or delivered in any building
belonging to or under the control of a municipality except in connection with
the operation of an established food service facility or at a site specifically
provided for in the Act and where dram shop insurance coverage is provided.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the local Liquor Control Commissioner
may, by written authorization from time to time, authorize the sale or delivery
of alcoholic liquor in the city municipal buildings, provided all other
applicable provisions of this Chapter 21 are satisfied.
   (F)   An established place of business is a prerequisite to the issuance of
a license. Revocation of a license when a licensee ceases to operate the
business before the license expires is within the authority of the Commissioner
on the grounds of non- use.
(1993 Code, § 21-3-29) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 1051, passed 11-24-1997)
Penalty, see Ch. 21, Art. IV
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-5; ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, §
6-15
Editor's note:
   See Goode v. Thomas, 31 Ill. App. 3d 674, 1975
§ 21-3-30 SELLING FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person who sells, gives or furnishes to any person under the age of 21
years any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of the
age and identity of such person or who sells, gives or furnishes to any person
under the age of 21 years evidence of age and identification of any other
person is guilty of violating this code.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16) (1993 Code, § 21-3-30) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-31 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who presents or offers to any licensee,
his or her agent or employee any written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity which is false, fraudulent or not actually his or her own for
the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to purchase or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure the serving of any alcoholic beverage, or
who has in his or her possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or
photostatic evidence of age and identity, is guilty of violating this code.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16) (1993 Code, § 21-3-31) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
§ 21-3-32 UNDERAGE DRINKING ON STREETS.
   Any person under the age of 21 years who has any alcoholic beverage in his
or her possession on any street or highway or in any public place or in any
place open to the public, is guilty of violating this code. This section does
not apply to possession by a person under the age of 21 years making a delivery
of an alcoholic beverage in pursuance of the order of his or her parent or in
pursuance of his or her employment.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16) (1993 Code, § 21-3-32) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-3-33 RESIDENTIAL DRINKING. 
   (A)   Any person shall be guilty of a violation of this code where he or she
knowingly permits a gathering at a residence which he or she occupies of two or
more persons, where any one or more of the persons is under 21 years of age and
the following factors also apply:
      (1)   The person occupying the residence knows that any such person under
the age of 21 is in possession of or is consuming any alcoholic beverage;
      (2)   The possession or consumption of the alcohol by the person under 21
is not otherwise permitted by this code; and
      (3)   The person occupying the residence knows that the person under the
age of 21 leaves the residence in an intoxicated condition.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, where the residence has an owner and
a tenant or lessee, there is a rebuttable presumption that the residence is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16) (1993 Code, § 21-3-33) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976) Penalty,
see Ch. 21, Art. IV
ARTICLE IV: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
Section
   
21-4-1   Owner of premises permitting violation
   
21-4-2   Acts of agent or employee; liability; knowledge
   
21-4-3   Revocation of license after conviction
   
21-4-4   Revocation of license when employee convicted
   
21-4-5   Misbranding
   
21-4-6   Abatement of place used in violation
   
21-4-7   Use of premises for one year after revocation
   
21-4-8   Revocation of licenses
   
21-4-9   Complaint by residents
   
21-4-10   Revocation or suspension of local license; notice and hearing
   
21-4-11   Appeals from order of Liquor Commissioner
   
21-4-12   Subsequent violations in one year
   
21-4-13   Appeal limitations for subsequent violation
§ 21-4-1 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION. 
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this code, said owner, agent or other person shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this code to the same extent as said licensee
and be subject to the same punishment.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-2) (1993 Code, § 21-4-1) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-2 ACTS OF AGENT OR EMPLOYEE; LIABILITY; KNOWLEDGE. 
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this code by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-3) (1993 Code, § 21-4-2) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-3 REVOCATION OF LICENSE AFTER CONVICTION.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this code, the
license of said licensee may, in the discretion of the Mayor, be revoked and
forfeited and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it shall thereafter
be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this code for said
licensee to continue to operate under such license.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-4) (1993 Code, § 21-4-2) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-4 REVOCATION OF LICENSE WHEN EMPLOYEE CONVICTED. 
   Whenever any officer, director, manager or other employee in a position of
authority of any licensee under this code shall be convicted of any violation
of this code while engaged in the course of his or her employment or while upon
the premises described by the license, the license shall be revoked and the
fees paid thereon forfeited, both as to the holder of the license and as to the
premises, as if said licensee had himself been convicted.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-5) (1993 Code, § 21-4-4) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-5 MISBRANDING. 
   Any person who shall knowingly possess, sell or in any way dispose of any
alcoholic liquor under any other than the proper name or brand known to the
trade as designating the kind and quality of the contents of the package or
other containers of the alcoholic liquor, or who shall cause any such act to be
done shall forfeit the alcoholic liquor and the packages and containers to the
state and shall be subject to the punishment and penalties provided for
violation of this code.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-6) (1993 Code, § 21-4-5) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-6 ABATEMENT OF PLACE USED IN VIOLATION.
   Every lot, parcel or tract of land and every building, structure, tent,
railroad car, boat, wagon, vehicle, establishment or place whatsoever, together
with all furniture, fixtures, ornaments and machinery located thereon, wherein
there shall be conducted any unlawful sale of any alcoholic liquor, or whereon
or wherein there shall be kept, stored, concealed or allowed any alcoholic
liquor intended for illegal sale or to be sold, disposed of or in any other
manner used in violation of any of the provisions of this code is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as provided by the laws of
this state for the abatement of public nuisances.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-7) (1993 Code, § 21-4-6) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-7 USE OF PREMISES FOR ONE YEAR AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license has been revoked for any cause, no license shall be granted
for the same premises for a period of one year thereafter.
(1993 Code, § 21-4-7) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-13
§ 21-4-8 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses, other than licenses to
manufacturers, importing distributors, distributors, foreign importers,
nonresident dealers, non-beverage users, brokers, railroads, airplanes and
boats:
      (1)   To grant and/or suspend for not more than 30 days or revoke for
cause all local licenses issued to persons for premises within his
jurisdiction;
      (2)   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the
State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine
said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      (3)   To notify the Secretary of State where a club incorporated under
the General Not for Profit Corporation Act of 1986 or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued
under that Act has violated this chapter by selling or offering for sale at
retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license;
      (4)   To receive complaint from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of this chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided;
      (4)   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the
city.
   (B)   The local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses granted under this code.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4) (1993 Code, § 21-4-8) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975;
Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-9 COMPLAINT BY RESIDENTS. 
   (A)   Any five residents of the municipality shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Liquor Commissioner, stating that a licensee under this code
has been or is violating the provisions of this code or any amendments hereto,
or of any of the statutes of this State of Illinois, enacted with reference to
the control of liquor. Such complaint shall be made in writing and shall be
signed and sworn to by the parties complaining.
   (B)   The complaint shall state the particular provision, rule or regulation
believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which such belief
is based. If the Liquor Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint
substantially charges a violation, and that from the facts alleged there is
reasonable cause for such belief, he shall set the matter for hearing and shall
serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and of the
particular charges in the complaint.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-7) (1993 Code, § 21-4-9) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975;
Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-10 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LOCAL LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING. 
   (A)   The local Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend any
license issued by him if he determines that the licensee has violated any of
the provisions of the Illinois Liquor Act, any valid ordinance adopted by the
municipality, any applicable rule or regulation established by the Liquor
Commissioner or the State Commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   (B)   Fine as opposed to suspension or revocation. In lieu of suspension or
revocation, the Liquor Commissioner may instead levy a fine on the licensee for
such violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed $1,000 for each violation;
each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the
municipal treasury, as the case may be.
   (C)   Revocation and suspension; notice. However, no such license shall be
so revoked or suspended and no licensee shall be fined except after a public
hearing by the local Liquor Control Commissioner with a three-day written
notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and
defend. All such hearings shall be open to the public and the Liquor Control
Commissioner shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings. If the Liquor Control Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community he may, upon
the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such conclusion and
without notice or hearing order the licensed premises closed for not more than
seven days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period,
except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another
business or businesses on the licensed premises such order shall not be
applicable to such other business or businesses.
   (D)   Hearing. The local Liquor Control Commissioner shall within five days
after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should
be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason
or reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of
the fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked, and
shall serve a copy of such order within the five days upon the licensee.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5) (1993 Code, § 21-4-10) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord.
1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 21-4-11 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, any order or action of a local
Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on a
licensee, granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than 30 days to
grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license may within 20
days after notice of such order or action be appealed by any resident of the
municipality under the jurisdiction of the Liquor Commissioner or any person
interested, to the State Commission.
   (B)   In any case where a licensee appeals to the State Commission from an
order or action of the Liquor Commissioner having the effect of suspending or
revoking a license, denying a renewal application or refusing to grant a
license, the licensee shall resume the operation of the licensed business
pending the decision of the State Commission and the expiration of the time
allowed for an application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is
filed, the licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until
the denial of the application or, if the rehearing is granted, until the
decision on rehearing.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9) (1993 Code, § 21-4-11) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-12 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS IN ONE YEAR.
   In any case in which a licensee appeals to the State Commission a suspension
or revocation by a local Liquor Control Commissioner that is the second or
subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee within the
preceding 12-month period, the licensee shall consider the suspension or
revocation to be in effect until a reversal of the Liquor Commissioner's action
has been issued by the State Commission and shall cease all activity otherwise
authorized by the license. The State Commission shall expedite, to the greatest
extent possible, its consideration of any appeal that is an appeal of a second
or subsequent suspension or revocation within the past 12-month period.
(ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9) (1993 Code, § 21-4-12) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-
1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976)
§ 21-4-13 APPEAL LIMITATION FOR SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION.
   (A)   An appeal to the State Liquor Commission of any action or order of the
local Liquor Control Commissioner levying a fine or refusing to levy a fine on
a local liquor licensee, granting or refusing to grant a liquor license to a
local liquor licensee, revoking or suspending or refusing to revoke or suspend
a liquor license of a local liquor licensee, or refusing for more than 30 days
to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a liquor license of a
local liquor licensee shall be limited to a review of the certified official
record of proceedings of the local Liquor Control Commissioner in accordance
with the provisions of § 7-9 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being ILCS Ch.
235, Act 5, § 7-9.
   (B)   The proceedings referred to in division (A) of this section shall be
taken and prepared by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand
reporter in accordance with the provisions of § 7-9 of the Illinois Liquor
Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9.
   (C)   Such recorded transcript shall constitute the certified official
record of the local Liquor Control Commissioner's proceedings in accordance
with § 7-9 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act, being ILCS Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9
(1993 Code, § 21-4-13) (Ord. 543, passed 6-16-1975; Am. Ord. 569, passed 7-19-
1976; Am. Ord. 573, passed 10-18-1976; Am. Ord. 930, passed 9-19-1994)
CHAPTER 23: MANUFACTURED HOUSING CODE
ARTICLE I: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
23-1-1   Definitions
   
23-1-2   Enforcement
   
23-1-3   Compliance with law
   
23-1-4   Jacks and stabilizers
   
23-1-5   Tie-down requirements
   
23-1-6   Concrete pads
   
23-1-7   Tie-down anchorage requirements
   
23-1-8   Water supply
   
23-1-9   Individual water riser pipes and connections
   
23-1-10   Sewage system
   
23-1-11   Fuel storage
   
23-1-12   Natural gas or central butane system installation
   
23-1-13   System shut-off valve
   
23-1-14   Immobilized manufactured home and manufactured home shut-off valve
   
23-1-15   Violation; penalties and unlawful continuance
§ 23-1-1 DEFINITIONS. 
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings:
   AFFIDAVIT. An oath in writing, sworn before and attested by an individual
who has authority to administer an oath.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license or permit.
   IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME. Any structure resting on a permanent
foundation, with wheels, tongue and hitch permanently removed.
   LICENSE. A license certificate issued by the city allowing a person to
operate and maintain a manufactured home park under the provisions of this code
and the rules and regulations issued hereunder.
   LICENSEE. Any person having a license or permit under this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure as defined by the zoning code, if it is used
as a dwelling or for business purposes. Also, see Zoning Code.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. The licensee.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   PERMIT. A permit certificate issued by the city permitting the construction,
alteration or reduction in number of spaces of a manufactured home park under
the provisions of this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, association, trust,
partnership, corporation, person doing business under an assumed name, county,
municipality, the State of Illinois or any political subdivision or department
thereof or any other entity.
   REVOCATION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this city for an indefinite period of time.
   SPACE. Shall be synonymous with “site”.
   SUSPENSION. To declare invalid a permit or license issued to the applicant
or licensee by this city for a temporary period of time with an expectation of
resumption.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-1) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
§ 23-1-2 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Officer or his or her designated representative shall have the
power and authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter relative to
health, sanitation, water supply, sewage, garbage, waste disposal and land use
violations.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-2) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
§ 23-1-3 COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   All manufactured homes and immobilized manufactured homes shall comply with
these regulations.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-3) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-4 JACKS AND STABILIZERS.
   Jacks and/or stabilizers shall be placed under the frame of the manufactured
home to prevent movement on the springs while the immobilized manufactured home
or manufactured home is parked and occupied and shall be located on approved
concrete footings.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-4) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-5 TIE-DOWN REQUIREMENTS.
   The manufactured home pad shall be improved to provide adequate support for
the placement and tie-down of the manufactured home. The pad shall not heave,
shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the manufactured home due to frost
action, inadequate drainage, vibration, wind or other forces acting on the
structure.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-5) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Cross-reference:
   See Tie-down anchorage requirements, §
23-1-7
§ 23-1-6 CONCRETE PADS.
   All immobilized and manufactured homes shall be placed on either a
reinforced concrete pad at least 14 feet wide by 60 feet in length. A concrete
footing is optional. All piers and footings for immobilized manufactured homes
shall comply with the definitions of the same in the zoning code. Expandable
units shall be provided with approved piers or their equivalent at each corner
of the units.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-6) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-7 TIE-DOWN ANCHORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All immobilized manufactured homes and manufactured homes 50 to 70
feet in length and 12 to 14 feet in width shall have five pairs of frame ties
and three over-the-top ties. They shall be inspected by the Zoning Officer or
his designated representative.
   (B)   Tie-down components used, including anchor systems, must be able to
withstand at least 4,800 pounds without failure. The holding power of ground
anchors can be determined by conducting pull-out tests or by consulting with
your anchor dealer. He should be able to provide you with data on anchor-
holding power for various kinds of soil.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-7) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-8 WATER SUPPLY. 
   An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided
in each immobilized manufactured home. A public supply of water shall be used
exclusively. Installation shall conform to the Illinois State Plumbing Code and
the city Utility Code provisions.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-8) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-9 INDIVIDUAL WATER RISER PIPES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the area of the
concrete pad.
   (B)   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation. The pipe diameter shall be at least three-quarters of an inch. The
water outlet shall be capped when the lot is not occupied.
   (C)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing
actions of the ground during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be
diverted from the location of the riser pipe.
   (D)   A shut-off valve below the frost line shall be provided near the water
riser pipe on each home space.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-9) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-10 SEWAGE SYSTEM. 
   Each manufactured home or immobilized home space shall be provided with a
four-inch connection to the sanitary sewer system. The sewer connection shall
be provided with suitable fittings so that a water-tight, self-draining
connection can be made between the manufactured home and the sewer connection.
Such individual connections shall be so constructed that they can be closed
when not linked to the immobilized manufactured home or manufactured home and
shall be so capped as to prevent any escape of odor of gas. No water or waste
shall be allowed to fall on the ground from an immobilized manufactured home or
manufactured home. The plans and specifications of the sewage system shall be
approved by the Zoning Officer and shall be in accordance with
Chapter 38.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-10) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-11 FUEL STORAGE.
   All fuel storage tanks or cylinders shall be permanently installed and
securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath the
immobilized manufactured or manufactured home, or less than 15 feet from the
immobilized or manufactured home exit/entrance. Fuel storage shall be permitted
in tanks or containers mounted on an incombustible frame at the rear of the
immobilized or manufactured home in accordance with the Illinois Fire and
Safety Regulations. Fuel containers shall not exceed 300-gallon capacity unless
approved by the Zoning Officer.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-11) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-12 NATURAL GAS OR CENTRAL BUTANE SYSTEM INSTALLATION. 
   All gas piping installed below ground shall have a minimum earth cover of 18
inches. Gas mains shall not be installed under any immobilized manufactured
home or manufactured home.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-12) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-13 SYSTEM SHUT-OFF VALVE.
   A readily accessible and identified shut-off valve, controlling the flow of
fuel to the central fuel piping system, shall be installed near the point of
connection to the main fuel supply point.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-13) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-14 IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOME AND MANUFACTURED HOME SHUT-OFF VALVE.
   Each immobilized manufactured home and manufactured home shall have an
approved fuel shut-off valve installed upstream of the immobilized manufactured
home or manufactured home fuel outlet and located on the outlet riser at a
height of not less than four inches above grade. Whenever the immobilized
manufactured home or manufactured home lot outlet is not in use, the outlet
shall be equipped with an approved cap or plug to prevent accidental discharge
of fuel.
(1993 Code, § 23-1-14) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 23-1-15
§ 23-1-15 VIOLATION; PENALTIES AND UNLAWFUL CONTINUANCE.
   (A)   Violation and penalties. Any person who shall violate a provision of
these regulations, or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements
thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure
in violation of this code, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this code, shall be subject to the general penalty described in
Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work in or
about a structure after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than $500 or more than $750.
(Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
ARTICLE II: IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
23-2-1   Immobilized manufactured homes; real estate tax
§ 23-2-1 IMMOBILIZED MANUFACTURED HOMES; REAL ESTATE TAX.
   All immobilized manufactured homes located in the city shall be classed as
real estate, therefore, it is mandatory for all persons owning, operating,
renting or leasing an existing manufactured home outside a manufactured home
park to remove or cause to have removed the wheels or any other transportation
device from the manufactured home. The owner or lessor shall permanently fix it
to the ground in a manner that conforms to the definition of an immobilized
manufactured home herein. All existing immobilized manufactured homes and
manufactured homes, when replaced, shall comply with provisions of this code
and the Zoning Code.
(1993 Code, § 23-2-1) (Ord. 518, passed 12-18-1972)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
CHAPTER 24: MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
ARTICLE I: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
24-1-1   Illinois Vehicle Code; definitions adopted
§ 24-1-1 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; DEFINITIONS ADOPTED. 
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq., entitled
“Title and Definitions”, as passed, approved and amended by the Illinois
General Assembly is hereby adopted by the city, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(1993 Code, § 24-1-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
ARTICLE II: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
24-2-1   Obedience to police
   
24-2-2   Scene of fire
   
24-2-3   Signs and signals
   
24-2-4   Unauthorized signs
   
24-2-5   Interference with signs or signals
   
24-2-6   Advertising signs
   
24-2-7   Animals or bicycles
   
24-2-8   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   
24-2-9   Regulation of parking lots owned by the City of Waterloo (“municipal
parking lots”)
§ 24-2-1 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, Special Police, Auxiliary Police and
Marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this article or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police
officer. Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-203
§ 24-2-2 SCENE OF FIRE. 
   The Fire Department officer in command or any fire fighter designated by him
may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing traffic
at the scene of any fire, or where the Fire Department has responded to an
emergency call, for so long as the Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the Police Department.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980)
§ 24-2-3 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, except upon
direction of a police officer. All signs and signals established by direction
of the governing body shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-3) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301
§ 24-2-4 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any street,
any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic; nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so
placed, maintained, allowed to remain or be displayed upon either public or
private property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the
movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic-control device, sign or
signal.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-4) (Ord. 831, passed 2-4-1991)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-2-5 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-5) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 24-2-6 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the city any sign, signal,
marking or device other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by the City
Council or the State Department of Public Works and Buildings which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal in view of any street or highway, and it shall be
unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any lawful
traffic-control device. It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any
flashing or rotating beacon of light in view of any street or highway.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-6) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 24-2-7 ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Any person riding a bicycle or an animal or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street shall be subject to the provisions of this code
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-7) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206
§ 24-2-8 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved
by the Department which shall be visible from all distances of 100 feet to 600
feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlights on
a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use any
siren upon a bicycle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will adequately
control movement of and stop and hold such bicycle.
   (D)   No person shall sell a new bicycle or pedal for use on a bicycle that
is not equipped with a reflex reflector or conforming to specifications
prescribed by the state on each pedal visible from the front and rear of the
bicycle during darkness from a distance of 200 feet.
   (E)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with side reflectors. Such reflectors shall be visible from each side
of the bicycle from a distance of 500 feet and shall be essentially colorless
or red to the rear of the center of the bicycle and essentially colorless or
amber to the front of the center of the bicycle provided. The requirements of
this division may be met by reflective materials which shall be at least three-
sixteenths of an inch wide on each side of each tire or rim to indicate as
clearly as possible the continuous circular shape and size of the tires or rims
of such bicycle and which reflective materials may be of the same color on both
the front and rear tire or rim. Such reflectors shall conform to specifications
prescribed by the state.
   (F)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new bicycle that is not
equipped with an essentially colorless front-facing reflector.
(1993 Code, § 24-2-8) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 645, passed 4-7-
1980) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507
§ 24-2-9 REGULATION OF PARKING LOTS OWNED BY THE CITY OF WATERLOO (“MUNICIPAL
PARKING LOTS”).
   (A)   The City is not responsible for damage to vehicles parked on municipal
parking lots.
   (B)   Parking on municipal parking lots is limited to operable personal
passenger vehicles.
   (C)   All other vehicles or equipment of any kind are specifically
prohibited from parking on municipal parking lots except by authorization of
the Mayor or his or her designee.
   (D)   Overnight parking is prohibited except by authorization of the Mayor
or his or her designee.
(Ord. 1689, passed 10-26-2015)
ARTICLE III: STOP AND THROUGH STREETS
Section
   
24-3-1   Through streets
   
24-3-2   One-way streets or alleys
   
24-3-3   Stop streets
   
24-3-4   Yield right-of-way streets
   
24-3-5   Posting signs
   
24-3-6   Prohibited left turns
§ 24-3-1 THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by ordinance as
“through streets” are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer. See Article VIII, Schedules
A, B, C and H.
(1993 Code, § 24-3-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-3-2 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance in any direction other
than that so designated. See Article VIII, Schedule “F” for the designated one-
way streets and alleys.
(1993 Code, § 24-3-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 309, passed 10-2-
1978)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208
§ 24-3-3 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance at one or more
entrances thereto and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not so
obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with. The Chief of Police may locate temporary
stop signs at designated school crossings. See Article VIII, Schedules “A”, “B”
and “C” for designated stop intersections.
(1993 Code, § 24-3-3) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302
§ 24-3-4 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, in obedience to such sign,
shall slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and if
required for safety to stop shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection. (See Article VIII, Schedule “H”)
(1993 Code, § 24-3-4) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-3-5 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right-
of-way streets, all one- way streets and alleys and all stop intersections.
(1993 Code, § 24-3-5) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-304
§ 24-3-6 PROHIBITED LEFT TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle from westbound Hamacher Street
at its intersection with North Market Street so as to turn left into the
southbound land of North Market Street, and an appropriate sign or signs shall
be posted near such intersection to that effect.
(Ord. 1031, passed 12-16-1996)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE IV: DRIVING RULES
Section
   
24-4-1   Illinois Vehicle Code adopted
   
24-4-2   Driving rules
   
24-4-3   Duty to report accident
   
24-4-4   Transporting liquor in vehicles
   
24-4-5   Excessive noise; stopped vehicle
   
24-4-6   Excessive noise; wheels
   
24-4-7   Excessive noise; squealing tires
   
24-4-8   Reckless, negligent or careless driving
   
24-4-9   Excessive noise while driving
§ 24-4-1 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   As authorized by and pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204, the city
adopts by reference all provisions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, (ILCS Ch. 625,
Act 5, § 1 up to and including ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204) pertaining to the
control of traffic and motor vehicles on highways that are not felonies under
state law, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the corporate
limits of the city, except for the following changes, deletions and omissions.
Violations of such laws in the city shall be violations of this chapter.
   (A)   Omissions: Omit ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-207, 11-208.1, 11-208.2,
11-209.1, 11-302, 11-303, 11-310(f), 11-313, 11-401 through 11-416, 11-500
through 11-502, 11-602 through 11-604, 11-606(b), 11-608, 11-1419 and 11-1422.
   (B)   Changes and additions:
      (1)   Change ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904(a) to read: “Preferential
right-of-way at an intersection may be indicated by stop or yield signs as
authorized by this code.”
      (2)   Change ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416(a) to read: “Any person who
shall willfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any
other person in lawfully driving and traveling upon or along any highway within
this state, or who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway
so as to interfere with the effective movement of traffic shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a violation of this code.”
(1993 Code, § 24-4-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-4-2 DRIVING RULES.
   (A)   Careless driving. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in the
city in a careless manner so as to interfere with the safe or lawful operation
of any other vehicle or so as to interfere with or to injure, damage or
endanger persons or property engaged in the lawful use of the street.
   (B)   Street racing unlawful. No person shall be a participant in street
racing as defined in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506.
   (C)   Fleeing or attempting to elude police officer. Any driver or operator
of a motor vehicle who, having been given a visual or audible signal by a
police officer directing such driver or operator to bring his vehicle to a
stop, willfully fails to or refuses to obey such direction, increases his or
her speed, extinguishes his or her lights or otherwise flees or attempts to
elude the officer is guilty of a violation of this chapter. The signal given by
the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue light. Provided,
however, the officer giving such signal shall be in police uniform and, if
driving a vehicle, such vehicle shall be marked showing it to be an official
police vehicle.
   (D)   Unlawful possession of highway sign or marker. The Department of Local
Authorities with reference to traffic-control signals, signs or markers owned
by the Department of Local Authorities are authorized to indicate the ownership
of such signs, signals or markers on the back of such devices in letters not
less than three-eighths of an inch or more than three-fourths of an inch in
height, by use of a metal stamp, etching or other permanent means and except
for employees of the Department of Local Authorities, police officers,
contractors and their employees engaged in highway construction, contract or
work on the highway approved by the Department of Local Authorities, it is a
violation of this chapter for any person to possess such sign, signal or marker
so identified.
   (E)   Special speed limitations on elevated structures.
      (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle over any bridge or other elevated
structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater than the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure
when such structure is sign-posted.
      (2)   Upon the trial of any person charged with the violation of this
section, proof of the determination of the maximum speed by the city and the
existence of such signs is conclusive evidence of the maximum speed which can
be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (F)   General speed restrictions. The speed limits on the various streets
shall be approved by the City Council, but shall not exceed 20 miles per hour
in a school zone and not to exceed 25 miles per hour on a residential street;
otherwise, 30 miles per hour on an arterial street unless otherwise posted.
(See Article VIII, Schedule”J”)
   (G)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public
thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from school during
school days when school children are present.
      (2)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and maintained by the city or state wherein the school zone
is located.
   (H)   Failure to reduce speed. A vehicle shall be driven upon the streets
and alleys of this city at a speed which is reasonable and proper with regard
to traffic conditions and the use of the street or alley. The fact that the
vehicle does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the
driver of the duty to decrease speed when approaching and crossing an
intersection or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrian or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased
as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   (I)   Traffic lane usage. Whenever any roadway within the city has been
divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, a vehicle shall be
driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a single lane and shall not be
moved from such lane until the driver has first ascertained that such movement
can be made with safety.
   (J)   U-turns prohibited. No driver of a vehicle shall make a "u-turn" on
any street or at any intersection of any streets in the city.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-313, 11-604, 11-605, 11-
608
§ 24-4-3 DUTY TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved in an accident
within the city shall, without unnecessary delay, notify the Police Department
and shall make a report of such action. Failure to report an accident within
the city within 24 hours shall result in arrests of the person or persons
involved.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-3) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-415
§ 24-4-4 TRANSPORTING LIQUOR IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor
within the passenger area of any motor vehicle in this city, except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-4) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502
§ 24-4-5 EXCESSIVE NOISE; STOPPED VEHICLE.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
unreasonably accelerate the engine thereof with the gears of the vehicle in
neutral, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-5) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-4-6 EXCESSIVE NOISE; WHEELS.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when the motor vehicle is stopped,
accelerate the engine with the gears of such vehicle in neutral, and while so
accelerating the engine, shift the gears of the vehicle into a forward or
reverse movement, thereby causing an unreasonably loud noise with the drive
wheels of the vehicle.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-6) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-4-7 EXCESSIVE NOISE; SQUEALING TIRES.
    No operator of a motor vehicle shall cause the wheels of such vehicle to
spin violently, thereby causing an unreasonably loud or excessive noise.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-7) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-505
§ 24-4-8 RECKLESS, NEGLIGENT OR CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the city in a careless,
reckless, negligent or wanton manner or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-8) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-4-9 EXCESSIVE NOISE WHILE DRIVING.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall, when operating the vehicle, accelerate
the vehicle or rapidly stop the vehicle, causing an unreasonably loud noise.
(1993 Code, § 24-4-9) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE V: EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES
Section
   
24-5-1   Illinois Vehicle Code; Equipment of Vehicles adopted
   
24-5-2   Muffler
§ 24-5-1 ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE; EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES ADOPTED.
   The Illinois Vehicle Code, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12 et seq., entitled
“Equipment of Vehicles”, as passed, approved, and amended by the Illinois
General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city, and the provisions thereof
shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
(1993 Code, § 24-5-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-605; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5,
§ 12-605.1; ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-605.2
§ 24-5-2 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition; and the use of a
cut-out is prohibited. No muffler shall cause an unreasonably loud or excessive
noise.
(1993 Code, § 24-5-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-602
ARTICLE VI: PARKING RULES
Section
   
24-6-1   Time limit parking
   
24-6-2   Parking for sale or repair
   
24-6-3   No-parking places
   
24-6-4   Towing cars away
   
24-6-5   Handicapped parking
   
24-6-6   Parking violations and penalty
   
24-6-7   Arrests
   
24-6-8   Prima facie proof
   
24-6-9   Parking tickets; state statute
   
24-6-10   Load limits
   
24-6-11   Permission for signage designating spaces for visitor parking only at
Waterloo High School and at Waterloo Junior High School
§ 24-6-1 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by law and so posted.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 24-6-6
§ 24-6-2 PARKING FOR SALE OR REPAIR.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except when emergency
repairs are necessary.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 24-6-6
§ 24-6-3 NO-PARKING PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand at any time in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic-control
device:
   (A)   Prohibited.
      (1)   In any intersection;
      (2)   In a crosswalk;
      (3)   Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the
approach thereto;
      (4)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
      (7)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
      (8)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (9)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway or
alley;
      (10)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
      (11)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such
station, within 75 feet of such entrance when properly sign-posted;
      (12)   On any sidewalk or parkway;
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      (14)   More than 12 inches from the curb with the right-side wheels;
      (15)   Parking shall be within the painted parking slots, parallel with
them and front wheels to curb. Rear-wheel parking will be permitted for the
purpose of loading and unloading only.
      (16)   Those places described in Article VIII, Schedule D.
   (B)   Diagonal parking. All vehicles shall be parked diagonally within
official parking lines established by the City Council at the locations
designated in Article VIII, Schedule L.
   (C)   Parallel parking. All vehicles shall be parked parallel with the sides
of streets wherever parking is permitted and not designated as a diagonal
parking area.
   (D)   Commercial parking prohibited on all residential streets. 
      (1)   No person shall park or leave standing on any street or alley or
portion thereof in a residential district as defined by the Zoning Code of the
city the following:
         (a)   Any commercial vehicle registered in the state of Illinois as a
Class C motor vehicle and above, or the equivalent ratings in a different state
except that the vehicle may be parked or left standing at or near an address
where business is being conducted.
         (b)    Any construction equipment except during construction in
conjunction with a valid building permit issued by the city.
      (2)   In addition tractors (trucks) are permitted in the residential
districts during the months of December, January, February and March for the
purpose of engine heaters. See Article VIII, Schedules D, E, and I.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles - definitions and parking.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is defined as
including but not limited to the following: any camping trailer, motor home,
mini motor home, travel trailer, truck camper, van camper, boat, jet ski, and
recreational off-highway vehicle (as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park a recreational vehicle upon any public
street, or alley, or portion Thereof, located within the city limits of the
City of Waterloo, Illinois.
   (F)   Trailers - parking. It shall be unlawful to park, at any time, any
trailer (not included in the definition of a “recreational vehicle”) that is
not attached to a motor vehicle on any public street, or alley, or portion
thereof located within the city limits. When attached to a motor vehicle, a
trailer (other than a recreational vehicle) may be parked on a public street
except between sundown and sunrise.
   (G)   Construction. In the event of a conflict or ambiguity this §
24-6-3 shall be strictly construed so as to disfavor rather than favor parking
upon public streets or alleys or portions thereof.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-3) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 849, passed 11-18-
1991; Am. Ord. 892, passed 8-16-1993; Am. Ord. 1244, passed 11-18-2002; Am.
Ord. 1736, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
24-6-6
§ 24-6-4 TOWING CARS AWAY.
   The Police Department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by
commercial towing service any car, boat, trailer or other vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; or any vehicle which has been parked in any
public street or other public for a period of 24 consecutive hours. Vehicles
towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a public garage or
parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof after
payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing and storing such
vehicles.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-4) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-6-5 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing
registration plates or decals issued to a handicapped person, as defined by
ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1-159.1, pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 3-616 or
11-1301.2 or to a disabled veteran pursuant to ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 3-609 in
any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking facility,
specifically reserved by the posting of an official sign for motor vehicles
bearing such registration plates. (See Article VIII, Schedule “G”.)
(1993 Code, § 24-6-5) (Ord. 813, passed 12-18-1989)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 24-6-6 PARKING VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance restricting the
length of time a vehicle may be parked in a designated area or prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area, with the exception of a person charged
with violating §
24-6-3, may settle and compromise the claim against him or her for such illegal
parking by paying to the city $25 for each offense. Such payment may be made at
the City Hall, and a receipt shall be issued for all money so received, and
such money shall be promptly turned over to the Treasurer to be credited to the
sidewalk fund. The members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to
refrain from instituting a prosecution for the alleged offense involved for at
least 24 hours.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to
obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or Fire Department
apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept housed, or so as to block an
emergency entrance in a hospital. Additionally, this section shall not apply to
any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in
any street or alley or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an
arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move
a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Police
Department.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-6) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 813, passed 12-18-
1989; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 24-6-7 ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-7) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-6-8 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked or operated is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-8) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-6-9 PARKING TICKETS; STATE STATUTE.
   The City Council intends to utilize ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5 and the
procedure set forth therein. The appropriate authorities are hereby authorized
to utilize the statute and the procedure set forth therein.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-9) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-6-10 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established gross load limits on certain
city streets. The term GROSS LOAD LIMIT shall mean the total weight of a
vehicle and the load it is carrying. The specified streets and the load limits
are hereby listed in Article VIII, Schedule I.
   (B)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle upon any
street where the operation is prohibited by this section and where such signs
of prohibition are posted, except that a vehicle may be driven on such street
for not more than the minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making
deliveries or picking up loads.
   (C)   Exceptions. This chapter shall not include pickup trucks, trucks
operated by the city maintenance and repairs on the street or the operation of
a vehicle owned by the U.S. Government or State of Illinois while on lawful
business of these agencies.
(1993 Code, § 24-6-10) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
Penalty, see § 24-6-6
§ 24-6-11 PERMISSION FOR SIGNAGE DESIGNATING SPACES FOR VISITOR PARKING ONLY AT
WATERLOO HIGH SCHOOL AND AT WATERLOO JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL.
   Waterloo High School and Waterloo Junior High School may post signs on
school property or in the public right-of-way of Bellefontaine Drive, in such
form and in such places as may be approved from time to time by the Chief of
Police, to designate four parking spaces in front of the entrance to the High
School and four parking spaces in front of the entrance to the Junior High
School for school visitor parking only during school hours. Enforcement of such
restrictions shall not be the duty or responsibility of the city.
(Ord. 1077, passed 11-2-1998)
ARTICLE VII: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
24-7-1   Definitions
   
24-7-2   Abandonment
   
24-7-3   Possession of vehicle by other party; towing
   
24-7-4   Removal of motor vehicles or other vehicles; towing or hauling away
   
24-7-5   Police responsibilities
   
24-7-6   Unknown owner
   
24-7-7   Identifying and tracing vehicle
   
24-7-8   Reclaimed vehicles; expenses
   
24-7-9   Disposal of unclaimed vehicle
   
24-7-10   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles without notice
   
24-7-11   Police record for disposed vehicle
   
24-7-12   Public sale proceeds
   
24-7-13   Liability
   
24-7-14   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-201 through 4-214
§ 24-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as follows:
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair, rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   COMPONENT PART. Any part of a vehicle other than a tire having a
manufacturer's identification number or an identification number issued by the
Secretary of State.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable, unregistered or discarded motor vehicle,
regardless of title, having lost its characteristic as a substantial property
and left unattended without justification on the owner's, lienholder's or other
legally-entitled person's land contrary to the public policy expressed in this
code.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within this municipality.
   REMOVE. To remove, deface, cover or destroy.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration, excepting, however, bicycles, snowmobiles and devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-1) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-2 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Highway. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or part
thereof on any highway in this municipality is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth herein.
   (B)   Private property. The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on
private or public property other than a highway in view of the general public
anywhere in this municipality is unlawful, except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle.
   (C)   Owner's property. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property shall be authorized for removal by the Police Department,
after a waiting period of seven days or more, or may be removed immediately if
determined to be a hazardous dilapidated motor vehicle under ILCS Ch. 65, Act
5, § 11-40-3.1. A violation of this section is subject to penalties as set
forth in §
1-1-19.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-2) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-3 POSSESSION OF VEHICLE BY OTHER PARTY; TOWING.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this municipality
who is not the owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person of the
vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Police Department when the
vehicle is within the corporate limits of the municipality. Upon receipt of
such notification, the Police Department or designated representative shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow, as set forth in §
24-7-5, until the vehicle is claimed by the owner, lienholder or any other
person legally entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as
provided in this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-3) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-4 REMOVAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER VEHICLES; TOWING OR HAULING AWAY.
   (A)   When a vehicle is abandoned or left unattended on a highway in an
urban district for ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by the Police Department.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway, or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by the Police Department.
   (C)   When a vehicle removal from either public or private property is
authorized by the Police Department, the owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs.
   (D)   The remaining provisions of ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203 are hereby
adopted by reference and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
corporate limits of this municipality.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-4) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-5 POLICE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away as provided herein, the Police
Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing by
color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series
name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year and
number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-5) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-6 UNKNOWN OWNER. 
   (A)   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, they will cause
the motor vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched
by a directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of
obtaining the required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department authorizing the impoundment shall cause the
stolen motor vehicle files of the Illinois State Police to be searched by a
directed communication to the Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted
information of the vehicle. The information determined from these record
searches shall be used by the Police Department in sending notification by
certified mail to the owner, lienholder or legally entitled person advising
where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition to be made and setting
forth public sale information.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-6) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-7 IDENTIFYING AND TRACING VEHICLE.  
   When the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to
the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from
the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois
State Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information
obtained by the Illinois State Police shall be immediately forwarded to the
Police Department having custody of the vehicle for notification purposes as
set forth in §
24-7-6.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-7) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-8 RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES. 
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided in §
24-7-9, the owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its
possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department proof
of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle
shall be released to the owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person
under this section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-8) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-9 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE. 
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or
other vehicle seven years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the Police
Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
auction to a person licensed as an automatic parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap
processor under ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5. Notice of the time and place of the sale
shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale
on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior
to the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time and place
to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder or other
person known by the Police Department or towing service to be legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
shall not be required.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-9) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-10 DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES WITHOUT NOTICE.
   (A)   New car. When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or
unclaimed vehicle of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any
means provided for in this chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided for in
§
24-7-9 without notice to any person whose identity cannot be determined.
   (B)   Old car. When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this code, it shall be kept in custody for a minimum
of ten days for the purpose of determining the identity of the registered owner
and lienholder and contacting the registered owner and lienholder by the U.S.
Mail, public service or in-person for a determination of disposition, and an
examination of the Illinois State Police stolen motor vehicle files for theft
and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten-day period without the
benefit of disposition information being received from the registered owner,
lienholder or other legally entitled person, the Chief of Police shall
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk.
   (C)   Antique vehicle. A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may,
however, be sold to a person desiring to restore it.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-10) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-11 POLICE RECORD FOR DISPOSED VEHICLE. 
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of the transaction shall be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-11) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-12 PUBLIC SALE PROCEEDS. 
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this municipality is
authorized to be towed away by the Police Department and disposed of as set
forth in this code, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the
municipal treasury.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-12) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-13 LIABILITY.
   A law enforcement officer or agency, towing service owner, operator or
employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his legal
representative, lienholder or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this code.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-13) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977)
§ 24-7-14 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or aids and abets in the violation of this article:
   (A)   Shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances; and
   (B)   Shall be required by the court to make a disposition on the abandoned
or unclaimed vehicle, and pay all towing and storage charges pursuant to this
article.
(1993 Code, § 24-7-14) (Ord. 590, passed 6-6-1977; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-
2009)
ARTICLE VIII: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
A.   Stop and through intersections
   
B.   Three-way stop intersections
   
C.   Four-way stop intersections
   
D.   No parking zones
   
E.   Limited parking zones
   
F.   One-way streets
   
G.   Handicapped parking spaces
   
H.   Yield right-of-way streets
   
I.   Load limit streets or truck routes
   
J.   Speed limit streets
   
K.   (Reserved)
   
L.   Diagonal parking
SCHEDULE A: STOP AND THROUGH INTERSECTIONS
   The following are designated as Stop and Through Streets, to-wit:
Stop Street (Direction) Through Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Stop Street (Direction) Through Street         Ord. No.  Passage Date
1st Street (both)       Market Street          —       —
1st Street (eastbound)  Main Street            —       —
   
1st Street (westbound)  Church Street          —       —
E. 1st Street           Roger Street           —       —
(eastbound)
3rd Street (both)       Market Street          —       —
3rd Street (eastbound)  Moore Street           —       —
3rd Street (eastbound)  Church Street          —       —
3rd Street (eastbound)  Rogers Street          1237      9-3-2002
3rd Street (westbound)  Moore Street           —       —
3rd Street (westbound)  Library Street         —       —
3rd Street (westbound)  Church Street          —       —
4th Street (both)       Moore Street           —       —
4th Street (eastbound)  Church Street          —       —
4th Street (southbound) Main Street            —       —
Alley south of 4th
Street and east of      Intersection of alley  —       —
Moore Street
(westbound)
Alley south of 4th
Street and east of      Intersection of alley  —       —
Moore Street
(eastbound)
Alley (both)            Hecker Street          —       —
(New Street)            Library Street         —       —
(westbound)
Adams Street            Washington Street      —       —
(westbound)
Adams Street            Hamacher Street        —       —
(northbound)
Alecia Drive            Southview Drive        1423      2-20-2007
(northbound)
Alpine Drive            Columbia Avenue        1435      6-18-2007
(northbound)
Annie Lane (southbound) Waymaker Lane          1893      9-3-2024
Arrowhead Court         Fawn Run               789       2-20-1989
(Northeast)
Bell Street             Mill Street            —       —
(southbound)
Bell Street             1st Street             —       —
(northbound)
Bellefontaine Drive     Hamacher Street        —       —
(northbound)
Bellefontaine Drive     1st Street             —       —
(southbound)
Benjamin Lane           Rogers Street          1763      9-4-2018
(westbound)
Betty Drive (eastbound) James Street           984       12-18-1995
Blazing Star Drive      Sunflower Drive        1341      6-20-2005
(eastbound)
Blazing Star Drive -    Grand Prairie Drive    1341      6-20-2005
north leg (eastbound)
Blazing Star Drive -    Grand Prairie Drive    1341      6-20-2005
south leg (eastbound)
Blazing Star Drive      Grand Prairie Drive    1341      6-20-2005
(westbound)
Blazing Star Drive      Sunflower Drive        1341      6-20-2005
(westbound)
Blue Aster Drive        Sunflower Drive        1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Blue Aster Drive        Grand Prairie Drive    1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Bond Street             Front Street           —       —
(northbound)
Briarcliff (eastbound)  Osterhage Drive        984       12-18-1995
Briarwood Drive         Sandalwood Drive       1082      11-23-1998
(eastbound)
Brookfield (southbound) Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
Brookshire (northbound) Wedgewood              —       —
Castle Green Drive      Country Club Lane      1423      2-20-2007
(northbound)
Cathy Drive (eastbound) Library Street         —       —
Cathy Drive (westbound) South Library Street   1020      9-3-1996
Cathy Drive (westbound) Mark Drive             —       —
Cedar Ridge (eastbound) Fawn Run               —       —
Cheshire Drive          Castle Green Drive     1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Cheshire Drive          Sherwood Lane          1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Chester Street          Red Bud Street         —       —
(southbound)
Church Street (both)    Hoener Street          —       —
Church Street (both)    Park Street            —       —
Church Street           4th Street             —       —
(southbound)
Church Street           4th Street             —       —
(westbound)
N. Circle (southbound)  Paul Drive             —       —
Cody Drive (northbound) Shamrock Drive         1257      6-23-2003
Cody Drive (southbound) Vandebrook Drive       1257      6-23-2003
Columbia Avenue         Moore Street           984       12-18-1995
(eastbound)
Columbia Avenue         North Main Street      —       —
(eastbound)
Columbia Avenue         North Moore Street     —       —
(westbound)
Columbia Avenue         IL State Route 3       1435      6-18-2007
(westbound)
Cone Flower Drive       Forbs Drive            1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Cone Flower Drive       Mist Flower Drive      1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Conrad Court            Covington Drive        1257      6-23-2003
(eastbound)
Cottonwood Lane         Stockel Lane           1341      6-20-2005
(eastbound)
Cottonwood Lane         Maplewood Lane         1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Country Lane            Lakeview Drive         —       —
(eastbound)
Creekside Drive         State Route 156        1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Crosswinds Court        Vancouver Drive        1384      9-25-2006
(eastbound)
Crosswinds Court        Ontario Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(westbound)
Dannehold Farms Drive   Rose Lane              1257      6-23-2003
(northbound)
Dannehold Farms Drive   Rose Lane              1384      9-25-2006
(southbound)
DePuyt Street           Hamacher Street        —       —
(southbound)
Debra Lane (eastbound)  South Church Street    1020      9-3-1996
Debra Lane (eastbound)  Library Street         —       —
Debra Lane (westbound)  South Library Street   1020      9-3-1996
Debra Lane (westbound)  Church Street          929       8-22-1994
Debra Lane (westbound)  Mark Drive             —       —
Deerfield (southbound)  Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
Doris Court (westbound) Remlok Drive           1894      9-3-2024
Driftwood Lane          Stockel Lane           1341      6-20-2005
(eastbound)
Driftwood Lane          Maplewood Lane         1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Drury Place             Ward Avenue            1435      6-18-2007
(northbound)
Druscilla Lane          Dannehold Farms Drive  1060      3-16-1998
(eastbound)
Druscilla Lane          Avington Drive         1060      3-16-1998
(westbound)
Eagle Court             Hamacher Street        1341      6-20-2005
Eastbrook (westbound)   Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
Elaine Drive            Debra Lane             1020      9-3-1996
(northbound)
Eleanor Lane            Park Street            1878      6-5-2023
(northbound)
Eleanor Lane            Oak Street             1878      6-5-2023
(southbound)
Elm Street (eastbound)  Main Street            —       —
Elm Street (northbound) Park Street            —       —
Elm Street (westbound)  Church Street          —       —
Elmwood (northbound)    Wedgewood Drive        —       —
Emily Lane (eastbound)  Hayden Drive           1823      5-17-2021
Emily Lane (westbound)  Rogers Street          1823      5-17-2021
Ernst Court             Covington Drive        1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Evansville Avenue       Chester Street         —       —
(northbound)
Evansville Avenue       Columbia Avenue        —       —
(southbound)
Evergreen Court         Morrison Avenue        —       —
(westbound)
Fairway Drive           Hamacher Street        —       —
(northbound)
Fairway Drive           Links Lane and Madison 1341      6-20-2005
(northbound)
Fairway Drive           Links Lane and Madison 1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Firehouse Lane          N. Main Street         1860      8-15-2022
(eastbound)
Firehouse Lane          W. First Street        1860      8-15-2022
(southbound)
Flower Street (both)    Library Street         —       —
Flower Street           Church Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Flower Street           Moore Street           —       —
(southbound)
Forbs Drive             Grand Prairie Drive    1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Fountain Brook Drive    Doe Creek Trail        1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Foxglove Drive          Grand Prairie Drive    1341      6-20-2005
(eastbound)
Front Street (both)     Market Street          —       —
Gardner Street          Market Drive           —       —
(eastbound)
Gardner Street          Main Street            —       —
(eastbound)
Gauen Court             Bradford Lane          955       3-27-1995
(southbound)
Gauen Court             Bradford Lane          984       12-18-1995
(southbound)
Glenbriar Drive         Castle Green Drive     1805      11-16-2020
(eastbound)
Glenbriar Drive         Sherwood Lane          1805      11-16-2020
(westbound)
Glendell Lane           Lakeview Drive         1257      6-23-2003
(eastbound)
Glendell Lane           Lakeview Drive         —       —
(westbound)
E. Grand Avenue         North Moore Street     —       —
(eastbound)
E. Grand Avenue         Grand Avenue           984       12-18-1995
(westbound)
Grand Avenue            Illinois Avenue        —       —
(northbound)
Grand Avenue            Columbia Avenue        984; 1435 12-18-1995; 6-18-2007
(northbound)
Grand Prairie Drive     Floraville Road        1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Greenview Court         Fairway Drive          —       —
(westbound)
Halifax Drive           Illinois Route 3       1384      9-25-2006
(westbound)
Hamacher Street         Market Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Hannah Drive            Mahala Drive           955       3-27-1995
(westbound)
Hannah Drive            Mahala Drive           984       12-18-1995
(westbound)
Hannah's Landing        Hannah Drive           955       3-27-1995
(northbound)
Hannah's Landing        Hannah Drive           984       12-18-1995
(northbound)
Hardy Street            Morrison Avenue        —       —
(eastbound)
Hardy Street            Market Street          —       —
(westbound)
Hartman Lane            Maeystown Road         984       12-18-1995
(eastbound)
Hartman Lane            Legion Drive           757       1-4-1988
(eastbound)
Hartman Lane            Front Street           —       —
(eastbound)
Hartman Lane            Katie Drive            1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Hartman Lane            Lakeview Drive         —       —
(westbound)
Hecker Street           Bellefontaine Drive    —       —
(eastbound)
Hecker Street           Market Street          —       —
(westbound)
Hickory Street          Stiening Street        —       —
(westbound)
Hickory Street          Library Street         —       —
(westbound)
Hoener Street           Main Street            —       —
(eastbound)
Hoener Street           Library Street         —       —
(westbound)
Hoener Street           Stiening Street        1449      8-27-2007
(westbound)
Illinois Avenue (both)  North Moore Street     —       —
Illinois Avenue         Illinois Route 3       1043      6-16-1997
(eastbound)
Illinois Avenue         Turtle Dove Trail      1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Illinois Avenue         Grand Avenue           —       —
(southbound)
Illinois Avenue         Illinois Route 3       1043      6-16-1997
(westbound)
Independence Avenue     West Fallen Lake Drive 1423      2-20-2007
(northbound)
Independence Avenue     West Fallen Lake Drive 1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Jamie Lane (northbound) Rose Lane              1257      6-23-2003
Jamie Lane (southbound) Rose Lane              1488      8-25-2008
James Street            Columbia Avenue        —       —
(southbound)
Janice Drive            Paula Drive            —       —
(eastbound)
Janice Drive            Park Street            —       —
(northbound)
Jefferson Drive         Hamacher St            —       —
(northbound)
Jefferson Drive         Hamacher               721       9-3-1985
(northbound)
Jenny Court (eastbound) Hayden Drive           1874      4-17-2023
Jenny Court (westbound) Hayden Drive           1874      4-17-2023
Kaleb Court (westbound) Hayden Drive           1823      5-17-2021
Katie Drive             Glendell Lane          1257      6-23-2003
(northbound)
Kimberly Lane           Hartman Lane           984       12-18-1995
(northbound)
Kimberly Lane           Katie Drive            1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Kirk Lane (southbound)  Sheridan Lane          1763      9-4-2018
Koenigsmark Street      Church Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Koenigsmark Street      North Library Street   —       —
(westbound)
Kolmer (eastbound)      N. Market              —       —
Kolmer (eastbound)      Evansville Avenue      —       —
Kolmer (westbound)      Evansville Avenue      —       —
Korte Lane (westbound)  Lakeview Drive         716       6-3-1985
Kurlun Drive            Morrison               —       —
(westbound)
Lakeside Court          Oak Creek Lane         1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Lakeview Drive          Park Street            —       —
(northbound)
Laurel Drive            Sycamore Street        —       —
(northbound)
Laurel Drive            Sycamore Drive         —       —
(northbound)
Leah Drive (Eastbound)  James Street           1257      6-23-2003
Legacy Drive            Hamacher Street        1623      1-7-2013
(southbound)
Legion Street           Front Street           —       —
(northbound)
Lemen Street            3rd Street             —       —
(southbound)
Leo Street (eastbound)  Main Street            —       —
Leo Street (northbound) Hoener Street          —       —
Liberty Court           West Fallen Lake Drive 1423      2-20-2007
(northbound)
N. Library Street       Veterans Drive         645       4-7-1980
(both)
N. Library Street       Columbia Avenue        —       —
(northbound)
S. Library Street       Lakeview Drive         —       —
(northbound)
Library Street          3rd Street             —       —
(eastbound)
Library Street          Park Street            —       —
(northbound)
Library Street          Mill Street            —       —
(northbound)
Library Street          Park Street            —       —
(southbound)
Lincoln Drive           Madison Drive          789       2-20-1989
(northbound)
Lincoln Street          Morrison Avenue        —       —
(eastbound)
Lincoln Street          Market Street          —       —
(westbound)
Lincoln Street          Morrison Avenue        —       —
(westbound)
Louise Lane             Covington Drive        1257      6-23-2003
(Northbound)
Madison Street          Jefferson Drive        —       —
(eastbound)
Madison Street          Fairway Drive          —       —
(eastbound)
Madison Street          Osterhage Drive        —       —
(eastbound)
Madison Street          Fairway Drive          —       —
(westbound)
Madison Street          Jefferson Drive        —       —
(westbound)
Madison Street          Osterhage Drive        —       —
(westbound)
Madison Street          Adams Street           —       —
(westbound)
Magnolia Street         Church Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Magnolia Street         Church Street          1735      8-21-2017
(westbound)
Magnolia Street         Main Street            1735      8-21-2017
(eastbound)
Magnolia Street         North Library Street   —       —
(eastbound)
Mahala Drive            Ditch's Run            1060      3-16-1998
(northbound)
Mahala Drive (both)     Bradford Lane          955       3-27-1995
Main Street             4th Street             —       —
(northbound)
N. Main Street          Columbia Avenue        —       —
(northbound)
Maplewood Lane          Waymaker Lane          1893      9-3-2024
(northbound)
Marney Lane (northbound Bradford Lane          1683      5-4-2015
and southbound)
Mary Drive (eastbound)  Lakeview Drive         —       —
Mary Drive (westbound)  Lakeview Drive         —       —
Mathews Lane            Lakeview Drive         721       9-3-1985
(westbound)
Meadows Drive           Rose Lane              1449      8-27-2007
(southbound)
Mill Street (eastbound) Roger Street           —       —
Mill Street             Library Street         —       —
(northbound)
Mill Street (both)      Main Street            —       —
Mill Street (both)      Market Street          —       —
Mill Street (westbound) Main Street            —       —
Mill Street (westbound) Moore Street           645       4-7-1980
Mist Flower Drive       Foxglove Drive         1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Mobile Street           Walnut Street          —       —
(northbound)
Mockingbird Lane        Illinois Avenue        1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Mockingbird Lane        Independence Avenue    1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Monroe Street           Columbia Avenue        —       —
(northbound)
Monroe Street           Veterans Drive         —       —
(southbound)
Moore Road (both)       HH Road                892       8-16-1993
Moore Street            Park Street            —       —
(northbound)
Moore Street            Park Street            —       —
(southbound)
N. Moore Street alley   Illinois Avenue        —       —
(southbound)
N. Moore Street         Gall Road              —       —
(southbound)
W. Moore Street alley 1 Veterans Drive         —       —
block (northbound)
Morrison Street (both)  Hartman Street         751       9-21-1987
Morrison Avenue         Legion Drive           955       3-27-1995
(eastbound)
Morrison Avenue (both)  Front Street           —       —
Morrison Avenue         4th Street             —       —
(northbound)
Morrison Avenue         Hartman Lane           —       —
(northbound)
Mueller Lane            Illinois Avenue        1043      6-16-1997
(northbound)
Natalie Drive           Hayden Drive           1823      5-17-2021
(northbound)
Natalie Drive           Hamacher Street        1823      5-17-2021
(southbound)
Nathan Lane (eastbound) Hartman Lane           984       12-18-1995
New Brunswick Drive     Ontario Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(northeast)
New Brunswick Drive     Rose Lane              1384      9-25-2006
(southbound)
New Brunswick Drive     Ontario Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(southwest)
Norma Avenue            Market Street          —       —
(westbound)
Northbrook (southbound) Fountain Brook Drive   984       12-18-1995
Northbrook (southbound) Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
North Winds Drive       Halifax Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(southbound)
Nottingham Avenue       Castle Green Drive     1739      11-20-2017
(eastbound)
Nottingham Avenue       Sherwood Lane          1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Oak Street (westbound)  Library Street         —       —
Oak Street (eastbound)  Church Street          —       —
Oak Tree Court          Timberline Drive       984       12-18-1995
Oak Tree Drive          Timberline Drive       1257      6-23-2003
(northbound)
Oak Tree Drive          Doe Creek Trail        1257      6-23-2003
(northbound)
Oak Tree Drive          Doe Creek Trail        1257      6-23-2003
(southbound)
Oakwood Lane            Cottonwood Lane        1341      6-20-2005
(northbound)
Oakwood Lane            Driftwood Lane         1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Oliver’s Way          Benjamin Lane          1763      9-4-2018
(northbound)
Oliver's Way            Covington Drive        1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Ontario Drive           New Brunswick Drive    1384      9-25-2006
(westbound)
Osterhage Drive         Konarcik Road          984       12-18-1995
(southbound)
Osterhage Drive         Hamacher Street        721       9-3-1985
(northbound)
Packwood Drive          East 4th Street        706       11-5-1984
(southbound)
Park Street (eastbound) Main Street            —       —
Park Street (westbound) Church Street          —       —
Parkwood Drive          Osterhage Drive        984       12-18-1995
(eastbound)
Parkwood Drive (east    Rosewood Drive         1093      4-19-1999
and west)
Paul Drive (eastbound)  Lakeview Drive         645       4-7-1980
Paul Simon Drive        Waymaker Lane          1893      9-3-2024
(southbound)
Paula Drive             Park Street            —       —
(northbound)
Paula Drive (westbound) Lakeview Drive         721       9-3-1985
Pautler Place           Market Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Pautler Place           Waterloo Drive         —       —
(westbound)
Pheasant Run            Remington Road         1763      9-4-2018
(eastbound)
Pinewood Lane           Cottonwood Lane        1423      2-20-2007
(northbound)
Pinewood Lane           Driftwood Lane         1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Plaza Drive (eastbound) Market Street          989       1-15-1996
Polo Run (northbound)   E. 4th Street          789       2-20-1989
Poplar Street           Moore Street           —       —
(westbound)
Prairie Place           Kirk Lane              1763      9-4-2018
(westbound)
Quentin Court           Hayden Drive           1823      5-17-2021
(westbound)
Quernheim Street        Legion Drive           757       1-4-1988
(eastbound)
Quernheim Street        Morrison Street        —       —
(westbound)
Rachael Lane            Rose Lane              1257      6-23-2003
(northbound)
Rachel Lane             Warren Drive           1060      3-16-1998
(northbound)
Rachel Lane             Rose Lane              1488      8-25-2008
(southbound)
Rau Street (both)       Mill Street            —       —
Rau Street (northbound) Flower Street          —       —
Rau Street (southbound) 3rd Street             —       —
Rau Street (southbound) Flower Street          —       —
Rebekah Court           Dannehold Farms Drive  1257      6-23-2003
(eastbound)
Red Bud Street          Waterloo Drive         —       —
(eastbound)
Red Bud Street          Evansville Avenue      —       —
(westbound)
Remington Road          Country Club Lane      1763      9-4-2018
(northbound)
Remington Road          Prairie Place          1763      9-4-2018
(southbound)
Remlok Drive            Covington Drive/       1894      9-3-2024
(northbound)            Benjamin Lane
Ridge View Drive        Timberline Drive       984       12-18-1995
(southbound)
Roger Street            E. 1st Street          —       —
(northbound)
Roger Street            4th Street             —       —
(southbound)
Roger Street            E. 1st Street          —       —
(southbound)
Rogers Street           Hamacher Street        —       —
(northbound)
Roosevelt Drive (both)  Madison Drive          751       9-21-1987
Roosevelt Drive         Osterhage Drive        —       —
(eastbound)
Roosevelt Drive         Jefferson Drive        789       2-20-1989
(southbound)
Rose Lane (westbound)   Illinois Route 3       1384      9-25-2006
Rosewood Drive          Briarcliff Drive       955       3-27-1995
(northbound)
Rosewood Drive          Parkwood Court         955       3-27-1995
(southbound)
Salisbury Street        Mill Street            —       —
(northbound)
Salisbury Street        Flower Street          —       —
(southbound)
Salisbury Street        Mill Street            1735      8-21-2017
(northbound)
Salisbury Street        Third Street           1735      8-21-2017
(southbound)
Sandalwood (northbound) 4th Street             —       —
Sarah Court (eastbound) Dannehold Farms Drive  1384      9-25-2006
Seneca Drive            Cone Flower Drive      1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Shady Oak Lane          Fawn Run               789       2-20-1989
(northeast)
Shamrock Drive          Fieldstone Drive       1341      6-20-2005
(eastbound)
Shamrock Drive          Stonefield Drive       1257      6-23-2003
(westbound)
Sheridan Lane           Castle Green Drive     1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Sheridan Lane           Sherwood Lane          1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Sheridan Lane           Castle Green Drive     1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Sheridan Lane           Sherwood Lane          1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Silver Creek Lane       Paul Drive             721       9-3-1985
(southbound)
South Business Park     Warren Drive           1060      3-16-1998
Drive (northbound)
Southbrook (northbound) Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
Southview Drive         Illinois Route 3       1423      2-20-2007
(eastbound)
Southview Drive         Illinois Route 3       1341      6-20-2005
(Southview Villas)
Spring Drive            Station Crossing       1435      6-18-2007
(westbound)
Station Crossing        Columbia Avenue        1435      6-18-2007
(northbound)
Station Crossing        Moore Street           1449      8-27-2007
(northbound)
Station Crossing        Columbia Avenue        1623      1-7-2013
(southbound)
Stiening Street         Hoener Street          —       —
(northbound)
Stiening Street         Park Street            —       —
(southbound)
Stockel Lane            Waymaker Lane          1893      9-3-2024
(northbound)
Stockel Lane            Lakeview Drive         1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Stonefield Drive        Vandebrook Drive       1257      6-23-2003
(Southbound)
Summerfield Drive       Shamrock Drive         1341      6-20-2005
(northbound)
Summerfield Drive       Shamrock Drive         1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Sunset Lane (both)      Paula Drive            —       —
Sunset Drive            Lakeview Drive         —       —
(southbound)
Sycamore Drive          Market Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Talbot Street           Bellefontaine Drive    —       —
(eastbound)
Talbot Street           Market Street          —       —
(eastbound)
Timberline Drive        Fountain Brook Drive   984       12-18-1995
(eastbound)
Turtle Dove Trail       Creekside Drive        1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Vancouver Drive         Halifax Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(southbound)
Vancouver Drive         Ontario Drive          1384      9-25-2006
(westbound)
Vandebrook              Fountain Brook         919       8-1-1994
Veterans Drive          Grand Avenue           —       —
(westbound)
Veterans Drive (both)   North Moore Street     —       —
Victorian Avenue        Cheshire Drive         1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Victorian Avenue        Sherwood Lane          1423      2-20-2007
(westbound)
Walnut Street (both)    Stiening Street        —       —
Walnut Street           Stiening Street        —       —
(eastbound)
Ward Avenue (westbound) Station Crossing       1435      6-18-2007
Ward Avenue (eastbound) Alpine Drive           1435      6-18-2007
Warren Drive            Dannehold Farms Drive  1060      3-16-1998
(westbound)
Washington Street       Hamacher Street        —       —
(northbound)
Waterloo Drive          Columbia Avenue        —       —
(southbound)
Waters Edge Drive       Oak Creek Lane         1423      2-20-2007
(southbound)
Watertower Lane         S. Church Street       1860      8-15-2022
(westbound)
Watertower Lane         Park Street            1860      8-15-2022
(southbound)
Watertower Lane         Park Street            1860      8-15-2022
(northbound)
Watertower Lane         Elm Street             1860      8-15-2022
(southbound)
Watertower Lane         Elm Street             1860      8-15-2022
(northbound)
Watertower Lane         Hoener Street          1860      8-15-2022
(southbound)
Waterworks Road         Lakeview Drive         716       6-3-1985
(westbound)
Wedgewood Drive (both)                        —       —
Wedgewood Drive (both)  Parkwood Drive         789       2-20-1989
Wedgewood (eastbound)   Osterhage Drive        984       12-18-1995
West Fallen Lake Drive  Mockingbird Lane       1341      6-20-2005
(northbound)
West View Court         Illinois Avenue        1257      6-23-2003
(Southbound)
West View Place         Illinois Avenue        1109      9-7-1999
(northbound)
West View Plaza Drive   Mueller Lane           1043      6-16-1997
(westbound)
West View Plaza Drive   Illinois Avenue        1043      6-16-1997
(northbound)
Williams Landing        Benjamin Lane          1763      9-4-2018
(northbound)
Williams Landing        Covington Drive        1341      6-20-2005
(southbound)
Willow Lane (westbound) Paula Drive            —       —
Willow Lane (westbound) Janice Drive           —       —
Wood Duck Court         West Fallen Lake Drive 1341      6-20-2005
(northbound)
Yukon Court (westbound) New Brunswick Drive    1384      9-25-2006
Temporary stop signs will be at the intersections of W. 3rd Street and Church
Street and W. 3rd Street and Library Street between the time of 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. and 3:30 p.m. on school days.
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. A)
SCHEDULE B: THREE-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
   The following intersections shall be designated as Three-Way Stop
Intersections, to-wit:
Stop Street (Direction) Intersection Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Stop Street (Direction)      Intersection Street        Ord. No. Passage Date
Country Club Lane            Sherwood Lane              1401     12-4-2006
Covington Drive (both)       Louise Lane                1495     10-27-2008
Evansville Avenue (both)     Red Bud Street             1107     8-23-1999
Fox Run (eastbound)          Quail Run                  907      1-18-1994
E. Grand Avenue (westbound)  Grand Avenue               1131     2-28-2000
Grand Avenue (both)          East Grand Avenue          1131     2-28-2000
Hamacher Street (both)       Rogers Street              1192     7-23-2001
                             Chester Street. Northbound
                             traffic on James Street
                             shall stop at the
                             intersection of Chester
                             Street and southbound
                             traffic on James Street
James Street                 shall stop at the          969      8-7-1995
                             intersection of Chester
                             Street. All westbound
                             traffic on Chester Street
                             shall continue to stop at
                             the intersection of James
                             Street
Louise Lane (northbound)     Covington Drive            1495     10-27-2008
Lucy's Landing (northeast    Sterritt's Run             907      1-18-1994
bound)
Mill Street (westbound)      Moore Street               1107     8-23-1999
Moore Road (northbound)      GG Road                    907      1-18-1994
S. Moore Street (southbound) Walnut                     907      1-18-1994
Moore Street (both)          Mill Street (Westbound)    702      7-16-1984
Moore Street (both)          Mill Street                1107     8-23-1999
Osterhage Drive (north and   Parkwood Drive             1341     6-20-2005
south)
Quail Run (southbound)       Moore Road                 907      1-18-1994
Red Bud Street (westbound)   Evansville Avenue          1107     8-23-1999
Rogers Street (northbound)   Hamacher Street            1192     7-23-2001
Sterritt's Run (southbound)  Moore Road                 907      1-18-1994
Thomas Lane (southbound)     Sterritt's Run             907      1-18-1994
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. B) (Am. Ord. 1350, passed 10-3-2005)
SCHEDULE C: FOUR-WAY STOP INTERSECTIONS
   The following are hereby designated as Four-Way Stop Intersections, to-wit:
Stop Street (Direction) Intersection Street Ord. No. Passage Date
Stop Street (Direction) Intersection Street Ord. No. Passage Date
1st Street              Main Street         862;     5-18-1992;
                                            1117     11-15-1999
W. 3rd Street           Library Street      1131     2-28-2000
4th Street              Library Street      771;     7-5-1988;
                                            1117     11-15-1999
4th Street              Market Street       1117     11-15-1999
Benjamin Lane           Thomas Lane         1060     3-16-1998
Bradford Lane           Mahala Drive        984      12-18-1995
Chester Street          Evansville Avenue   1190     5-21-2001
S. Church Street        West 3rd Street     1131     2-28-2000
Church Street           Mill Street         645;     4-7-1980;
                                            1117     11-15-1999
Creekside Drive         Oak Creek Lane      1423     2-20-2007
Druscilla Lane          Mahala Drive        1060     3-16-1998
HH Road                 Moore Road          919      8-1-1994
Hoener Avenue           South Church Street 1154     8-21-2000
Kolmer Street           Evansville Avenue   955      3-27-1995
Kolmer Street           James Street        955      3-27-1995
Magnolia Avenue         Firehouse Lane      955;     3-27-1995; 8-15-2022
                                            1860
Main Street             Mill Street         645;     4-7-1980;
                                            1117     11-15-1999
Main Street             3rd Street          1682     5-4-2015
Mill Street             Library Street      955      3-27-1995
Moore Street            Illinois Avenue     1671     9-22-2014
Morrison Avenue         Sycamore Street     1117     11-15-1999
North Moore Road        Columbia Avenue     1341     6-20-2005
Ontario Drive           Halifax Drive       1735     8-21-2017
Osterhage Drive         Madison Drive       1136     4-17-2000
Parkwood Drive          Wedgewood Drive     955      3-27-1995
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. C)
SCHEDULE D: NO PARKING ZONES
   The following are hereby designated as No Parking Zones:
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Passage Date
Street (Side)                Location                     Ord. No. Passage Date
E. 1st Street (south)        From Rogers Street west 130  831      2-4-1991
                             feet
                             From the east end of the
E. 3rd Street (South)        building located at 224 East 831      2-4-1991
                             3rd Street west 45 feet
                             From a point 7 feet east of
                             the east edge of the
W. 4th Street (North)        building located at 207 4th  831      2-4-1991
                             Street to a point 87 feet
                             east of the edge of said
                             building
W. 4th Street (south)        Main Street west 95 feet     919      8-1-1994
4th Street (north)           From Main Street west 40     955      3-27-1995
                             feet
                             From the southwest corner of
4th Street (south)           the intersection with Main   1062     4-6-1998
                             Street to a point 81 feet
                             west thereof
                             From a point 117 feet west
                             of the southwest corner of
4th Street (south)           the intersection with Main   1062     4-6-1998
                             Street to a point 142 feet
                             west of such southwest
                             corner
                             Entire length going east of
Alley (north)                228 N. Main Street to 221 N. 1887     2-20-2024
                             Market Street
Alley south of firehouse     Entire length                831      2-4-1991
Bulldog Boulevard (north and Public portion, from Market
south)                       Street to the WCUSD #5       1559     10-4-2010
                             property line
Columbia Avenue              Between Main Street and      831      2-4-1991
                             Waterloo Drive
DePuyt Street (east)         Entire east side             831;     2-4-1991;
                                                          1244     11-18-2002
                             Along all of FAP Route 312
FAP Route 312 (relocated     (relocated Illinois Route 3) 986      1-2-1996
Illinois Route 3) (both)     that is located within the
                             city limits
                             From the east edge of
                             Bellefontaine Drive to the
                             west edge of Washington
                             Street (except that vehicles
                             may stop during regular
Hamacher (south)             school hours on school days  862      5-18-1992
                             for loading and unloading of
                             students in the space from
                             the east edge of the Zahnow
                             School east driveway to the
                             west edge of the Zahnow
                             School west driveway
Hamacher Street (south)      From Bellefontaine Dr. south 1740     12-4-2017
                             250 feet
                             From Washington Street west
Hamacher Street (north)      to the east entrance to      831      2-4-1991
                             Zahnow School
                             From 500 feet west to 550
Illinois Route 156 (both)    feet east of the centerline  986      1-2-1996
                             of FAP Route 312 (relocated
                             Illinois Route 3)
Illinois Route 3/Market      From the intersection of 3rd
Street (east)                Street to intersection with  1055     2-2-1998
                             Lincoln Avenue
                             From a point 360 feet (110
                             meters) north of the
Illinois Route 3/Market      extension of the centerline
Street (both)                of 1st Street to a point 85  1055     2-2-1998
                             feet (26 meters) south of
                             the extension of the
                             centerline of 1st Street.
N. Library Street            From Magnolia Street to the  831      2-4-1991
                             Swimming Pool driveway
                             From the south line of the
N. Market Street (west)      Waterloo Lumber Company      831      2-4-1991
                             premises to the northerly
                             boundary line of the city
N. Market Street (west)      From Mill Street north 45    831      2-4-1991
                             feet
                             From the north corner of the
N. Market Street (west)      United Church of Christ      831      2-4-1991
                             Parish Hall south 40 feet
                             From North Market Street
                             extending on East Mill
                             Street to its intersection
E. Mill Street               with Rogers Street, Monday   1018;    8-19-1996;
                             through Friday on school     1025     10-21-1996
                             days when children are
                             present between the hours of
                             8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Moore Street (east)          From Illinois Avenue south   1672     9-22-2014
                             20 feet
Park Street (North)          From Moore Street east 60    831;     2-4-1991;
                             feet                         919      8-1-1994
Park Street (south)          From Library Street west 65  831      2-4-1991
                             feet
Poplar Street (south)        Entire length                1803     9-21-2020
Rogers Street (east and      Entire length                1363     1-3-2006
west)
Salisbury Street             Alley between W. Mill Street 1879     7-17-2023
                             & W. Third Street
Veterans Drive               Between North Church Street  831      2-4-1991
                             and North Moore Street
Warren Drive (both)          Between Illinois State Rte 3 1449     8-27-2007
                             and Jaime Lane
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. D)
SCHEDULE E: LIMITED PARKING ZONES
   The following are hereby designated as Limited Parking Zones:
Street (Side) Location and Limits Ord. No. Passage Date
Street (Side)              Location and Limits            Ord. No. Passage Date
                           From the alley between Market
                           Street and Bellefontaine Drive
E. 1st Street (North)      East to Bellefontaine Drive    656      11-3-1980
                           from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on
                           school days
                           From the alley between Market
                           Street and Bellefontaine Drive
E. 1st Street (South)      to the furthest east utility   656      11-3-1980
                           pole on the south side of East
                           1st Street from 7:00 a.m. to
                           4:00 p.m. on school days
                           SPPS School from 7:30 a.m. to
W. 3rd Street              9:00 a.m. and from 2:30 p.m.   —      —
                           to 4:00 p.m.
W. 3rd Street              West of Main Street from 8:00  —      —
                           a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
                           From front of Post Office to
E. 4th Street (North)      alley before Market (30        801      9-7-1989
                           minutes maximum)
                           Between 1st Street and Mill
Bell Street                Street from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00  605      8-7-1978
                           p.m. on school days
                           125 feet north along
                           Bellefontaine Drive from 1st
Bellefontaine Drive (west) Street, 125 feet; no parking   674      1-18-1982
                           from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on
                           school days only
                           180 ft. north along
                           Bellefontaine Drive from 1st
Bellefontaine Drive (east) Street, 180 feet; no parking   656      11-3-1980
                           from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 on
                           school days, allowing p.m.
                           loading and unloading only
                           From North Market Street east
Hamacher Street (South)    800 feet (From 7:30 a.m. to 9: 656      11-3-1980
                           00 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 4:00
                           p.m. on school days)
                           From 360 feet (110 meters)
Illinois Route 3/ Market   north to 85 feet (26 meters)   1054     1-19-1998
Street (both)              south of the centerline of 1st
                           Street
Illinois Route 3/ Market   From 3rd Street to Lincoln     1054     1-19-1998
Street (east)              Avenue
N. Market (east)           From 1st Street south 40 feet  605      8-7-1978
W. Park Street (South)     From Library Street west 40    605      8-7-1978
                           feet (except loading allowed)
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. E)
SCHEDULE F: ONE-WAY STREETS
   In accordance with §
24-3-2, the following streets are hereby designated as One-Way Streets, to-wit:
 
Street (Direction)         Location and Limits            Ord. No. Passage Date
3rd Street (westbound)     Between Market Street and Main 849      11-18-1991
                           Street
DePuyt Street (southbound) Between Norma Street and       727      2-17-1986
                           Hamacher Street
Norma Avenue (eastbound)   Between Market Street and      727      2-17-1986
                           DePuyt Street
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. F)
SCHEDULE G: HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES
   The following parking spaces are hereby designated as parking spaces
reserved for the handicapped. Signs shall be erected in front of the parking
spaces designated in Schedule F as being reserved for the handicapped. All
signs shall conform to the standards set forth in ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11.1-
1301.1
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Passage Date
Street (Side)          Location                           Ord. No. Passage Date
                       From a point 66 feet east of North
E. 1st Street (north)  Main Street to a point 87 feet     876      11-6-1992
                       east of North Main Street
                       The first parking space south of
N. Main Street (west)  West First Street in front of 129  813      12-18-1989
                       N. Main Street (Rayot Building)
                       One diagonal parking space 12 feet
N. Main Street (east)  in width, which begins at a point  —      —
                       117 feet north of East First
                       Street
                       From a point 206 feet north of
S. Main Street (west)  West 4th Street to a point 227     968      7-24-1995
                       feet north of West 4th Street
                       The first space south of the major
S. Main Street (east)  sidewalk in front of the Monroe    813      12-18-1989
                       County Courthouse
                       The first space in the east side
                       of South Main Street in front of
S. Main Street (east)  the Capitol Theatre at the corner  813      12-18-1989
                       of South Main Street and 3rd
                       Street
                       The first space south of driveway
S. Main Street (east)  in front of 228 S. Main Street     813      12-18-1989
                       (First National Bank of Waterloo)
                       The first parking space south of
S. Main Street (west)  alley in front of 121 S. Main      813      12-18-1989
                       Street (Sally's Hallmark)
                       Two contiguous spaces in the
W. Mill Street (north) middle of the block in front of    813      12-18-1989
                       123 W. Mill Street (Public Aid
                       Department)
 
Street (Side)       Location                              Ord. No. Passage Date
                    From a point 16 feet west of Stiening
Park Street (South) Street to a point 39 feet west of     873      —
                    Stiening Street
                    From a point 43 feet west of Stiening
Park Street (South) Street to a point 66 feet west of     873      —
                    Stiening Street
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. G)
SCHEDULE H: YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS
   The following street is designated as a Yield Right-of-Way Street:
 
Yield Right-of-Way Street Location                   Ord. No. Passage Date
Lake Street               At intersection with Paula 831      2-4-1991
                          Drive
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. H)
SCHEDULE I: LOAD LIMIT STREETS OR TRUCK ROUTES
   In accordance with the provisions of §
24-6-3 all streets in the city are declared load-limit streets and all trucks
having more than one single rear axle are hereby prohibited on said streets
except as provided in §
24-6-3 and as follows:
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Passage Date
Street (Side)     Location                   Ord. No. Passage Date
W. 4th Street     Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
Flower Street     Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
Gall Road         Entire distance            892;     8-16-1993;
                                             915      4-18-1994
Hamacher Street   Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
HH Road           Entire distance            892;     8-16-1993;
                                             915      4-18-1994
Lakeview Drive    Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
Legion Drive      Entire distance            892;     8-16-1993;
                                             915      4-18-1994
S. Library Street Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
Mill Street       Moore Street to Rau Street 919      8-1-1994
Moore Street      Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
State Route 3     Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
State Route 156   Entire distance            915      4-18-1994
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. I)
SCHEDULE J: SPEED LIMIT STREETS
   The speed limits on the following streets shall be as indicated.
Street Speed Limit (mph) Location Ord. No. Passage Date
Street            Speed Limit (mph) Location             Ord. No. Passage Date
                                    Public portion, from
Bulldog Boulevard 20                Market Street to the 1562     10-4-2010
                                    WCUSD #5 property
                                    line
                                    From the east city
Country Club Lane 35                limits to the west   1400     12-4-2006
                                    city limits
Gall Road         35                Entire distance      892      8-16-1993
Hamacher Street   35                From Osterhage Drive —      —
                                    to east city limits.
Hamacher Street   30                From Rogers Street   977      10-23-1995
                                    to Fairway Drive
Hamacher Street   35                From Fairway Drive   977      10-23-1995
                                    to east city limits
HH Road           35                Entire distance      892      8-16-1993
Illinois Avenue   20                From West of Moore   609      10-2-1978
                                    Street
Lakeview Drive    35                From Park Street to  —      —
                                    Library Street
Lakeview Drive    45                From Library Street  1684     6-15-2015
                                    to city limits
Library Street    20                From Magnolia Avenue 609      10-2-1978
                                    to Veteran's Drive
Moore Street      30                From W. Mill Street  —      —
                                    to Columbia Avenue
Moore Street      35                From Gall Road to    —      —
                                    north city limits.
Silver Creek
Crossing          25                Entire subdivision   1466     1-28-2008
Subdivision
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. J)
SCHEDULE K: (RESERVED)
SCHEDULE L: DIAGONAL PARKING
   In accordance with Section
24-6-3(B), the following areas of streets are hereby designated as diagonal
parking areas:
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Passage Date
Street (Side)              Location                       Ord. No. Passage Date
3rd Street (North)         Between Market Street and Main 849      11-18-1991
                           Street
                           Between East First Street and
                           the driveway located between
Bellefontaine Drive (East) Waterloo Community Unit        849      11-18-1991
                           District No. 5 High School and
                           the Chamber of Commerce Park.
Illinois Avenue (South)    Between Moore Street and Rau   849      11-18-1991
                           Street
                           From Fourth Street to the
Main Street (east)         alley across Main Street from  849      11-18-1991
                           the front of the Waterloo Fire
                           Department Engine House.
                           From Fourth Street to the
                           southern boundary of the edge
Main Street (West)         of the lot on which the        849      11-18-1991
                           Waterloo Fire Department
                           Engine House is located.
Mill Street (both)         Between Main Street and        849      11-18-1991
                           Library Street
Mill Street (both)         Between Rau Street and Moore   —      —
                           Street (North)
 
(1993 Code, Art. VIII, Sched. L)
CHAPTER 25: NUISANCES
ARTICLE I: NUISANCES GENERALLY
Section
   
25-1-1   Specific nuisances enumerated
   
25-1-2   Notice to abate
   
25-1-3   Failure to comply with notice; penalty
   
25-1-4   Abatement
   25-1-5   Methamphetamine contamination
   
Appendix:   Nuisance violation notification
§ 25-1-1 SPECIFIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be against the health, peace
and comfort of the city for any person, firm or corporation within the limits
of the city to permit the following; but the enumeration of the following
nuisances shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Filth. To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal,
filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any
place to the prejudice of others.
   (B)   Deposit of offensive materials. To throw or deposit any offal or other
offensive matter or the carcass of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake,
pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public highway.
   (C)   Corruption of water. To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any spring, river, stream, pond or lake to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Highway encroachment. To obstruct or encroach upon public highways,
private ways, streets, alley, commons, landing places and ways to burying
places.
   (E)   Manufacturing gunpowder. To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerine or other highly explosive substances or mixing or
grinding the materials therefor in any building within 20 rods of any valuable
building erected at the time such business may be commenced.
   (F)   Powder magazines. To establish powder magazines near incorporated
towns at a point different from that appointed according to law by the
corporate authorities of the town or within 50 rods of any occupied dwelling
house.
   (G)   Noxious odors. To erect, continue or use any building or other place
for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by occasioning
noxious exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous
to the health of individuals or of the public.
   (H)   Unlawful advertising. To advertise wares or occupations by painting
notices of the same on, or affixing them to fences or other private property,
or on rocks or other natural objects without the consent of the owner, or if in
the highway or other public place, without permission of the proper
authorities.
   (I)   Wells unplugged. To permit any well drilled for oil, gas, salt water
disposal or any other purpose in connection with the production of oil and gas
to remain unplugged after such well is no longer used for the purpose for which
it was drilled.
   (J)   Burn-out pits. To construct or operate any salt water pit or oil field
refuse pit, commonly called a burn-out pit, so that salt water, brine or oil
field refuse or other waste liquid may escape therefrom in any manner except by
the evaporation of such salt water or brine or by the burning of such oil field
waste or refuse.
   (K)   Discarded materials. To permit concrete bases, discarded machinery and
materials to remain around any oil or gas well or to fail to fill any holes,
cellars, slush pits and other excavations made in connection with any such
well, or to restore the surface of the lands surrounding any such well to its
condition before the drilling of any such well, upon abandonment of any such
oil or gas well.
   (L)   Underground wells. To permit any salt water, oil, gas or other wastes
from any well drilled for oil, gas or exploratory purposes to escape to the
surface or into a mine or coal seam, or into any underground fresh water supply
or from one underground stratum to another.
   (M)   Harassment. To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about
to sell or lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property, or
is about to buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real
property when the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person's
attempt to sell, buy or lease a residence or other real property, or refers to
a person's sale, purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   (N)   Business. To establish, maintain and carry on any offensive or
unwholesome business within the city limits or within one mile of the city
limits.
   (O)   Inappropriate dumping of yard waste.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to dump or discard any yard waste at a city
yard waste site for which a fee has been charged or a profit obtained from
either a resident or non-resident of the city. Commercial dumping or discarding
is prohibited.
      (2)   Yard waste from a location outside the city shall not be dumped or
discarded at a city yard waste site.
      (3)   A non-resident of the city shall not dump or discard any material
at the yard waste site, except if the dumping is at the request of the city
resident from whom the yard waste came and the party dumping same is a relative
of the city resident.
      (4)   No multi-axle vehicle shall be permitted to dump or discard at a
city yard waste site. Pickup trucks and single-axle trailers are permitted.
      (5)   No general rubbish or material shall be dumped or deposited at a
city yard waste site.
   (P)   Expectorate. To expectorate on any public sidewalk, street, or other
public building or floor or walk of any public vehicle or hall.
   (Q)   Animals prohibited. To own or possess any swine, goats, horses or fowl
or cattle within the city, unless permitted in a zoned Agricultural District.
   (R)   Litter on streets. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow trash,
paper, cardboard, wire, dirt, rock, stone, glass, brick, lumber, wood or litter
of material objects of any size or description to fall upon the streets from
any moving vehicle, or to be thrown from a moving vehicle and to remain
thereon.
   (S)   Slaughtering, slaughterhouses, and the like. To slaughter or kill any
animals within the city, or to locate or maintain at any place within the city
or within a radius of one mile without the city any slaughterhouse, packing
house, rendering establishment or bone factory, or to suffer or permit any
premises at any place within the limits of aforesaid used for any of the
purposes aforesaid to become foul or offensive, unless approval and permission
is granted by the City Council.
   (T)   Accumulations of junk, trash. To deposit or pile up any rags, old
rope, paper, iron, brass, copper, tin, aluminum, ashes, garbage, refuse,
plastic, brush, litter, weeds, slush, lead, glass bottles or broken glass upon
any lot, piece or parcel of land or upon any public or private alley, street or
public way within the city and to place same so that it can be blown about or
scattered by the wind.
   (U)   Rodents. To cause or permit any condition or situation to exist that
shall attract, harbor, or encourage the infestation of rodents.
   (V)   Bringing nuisances into the city. To bring into the city or keep
therein for sale or otherwise, either for food or for any other purpose, any
dead or live animal or any matter, substance or thing which shall be a nuisance
or which shall occasion a nuisance in the city, or which may or shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health.
   (W)   Offensive liquids. To keep any nauseous, foul or putrid liquid or
substance or any liquid or substance likely to become nauseous, foul, offensive
or putrid, nor permit any such liquid to be discharged, placed, thrown or to
flow from or out of any premise into or upon any adjacent premises or any
public street or alley, nor permit the same to be done by any person connected
with the premises under his control.
   (X)   Motor transport engines. To operate motor transport engines in the
nighttime between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in any place in which a
majority of the buildings, within a radius of 400 feet, are used exclusively
for residence purposes, excluding state and federal highways.
   (Y)   General. To commit any offense which is a nuisance according to the
common law of the land or made such by statute of the state.
   (Z)   Nuisances detrimental to health generally. No building, vehicle,
structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premise or part thereof shall be made, used,
kept, maintained or operated in the city if such use, keeping, maintaining of
any nuisance shall be dangerous or detrimental to health.
   (AA)   Unhealthful businesses. No substance, matter or thing of any kind
whatever, which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed
to exist in connection with any business or be used therein, or be used in any
work or labor performed in the city, and no nuisance shall be permitted to
exist in connection with any such work or labor.
   (BB)   Methamphetamine contamination. To cause or permit the existence of a
structure or building in the city that has been used for the storage or
manufacture of methamphetamine, until the abatement and cleaning practices
required in §
25-1-5 have been complied with.
   (CC)   Animal fecal matter.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or handler of any animal to fail
to remove fecal matter deposited by his/her animal on public property or public
easement or private property of another, before the owner leaves the immediate
area where the fecal matter was deposited.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to allow the accumulation of
animal feces or manure in any open area, run, cage or yard wherein animals are
kept and to fail to remove or dispose of feces properly.
(1993 Code, § 25-1-1) (Ord. 604, passed 5-1-1978; Am. Ord. 630, passed 9-4-
1979; Am. Ord. 1497, passed 11-3-2008; Am. Ord. 1578, passed 4-18-2011; Am.
Ord. 1685, passed 6-22-2015; Am. Ord. 1704, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
25-1-3
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 740, Act 55, § 221; ILCS Ch. 740, Act 55, §
222
§ 25-1-2 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   It shall be the duty of the designated authority to serve notice, in
writing, upon the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession or control of
any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found or who
may be the owner or the cause of any such nuisance, requiring him or her to
abate the same within five days in such a manner as the designated authority
shall prescribe. It shall not be necessary in any case for the designated
authority to specify in the notice the manner in which any nuisance shall be
abated, unless he or she shall deem it advisable to do so.
(1993 Code, § 25-1-2)
§ 25-1-3 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE; PENALTY.
   (A)   If the person notified to abate a nuisance shall neglect or refuse to
comply with the requirements of such notice by abating such nuisance within the
time specified in §
25-1-2:
      (1)   Such person shall be subject to the general penalty described in
Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances; and
      (2)   The city may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of
the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by
such owner or occupant.
   (B)   Charges for such abatement and removal, if abated or removed by the
city, shall constitute a lien upon the premises.
(1993 Code, § 25-1-3) (Ord. 751, passed 9-21-1987; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-
2009)
§ 25-1-4 ABATEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the designated authority to proceed at once upon the
expiration of the time specified in the notice to cause such nuisance to be
abated, provided, however, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person
in possession or control of any premises in or upon which any nuisance may be
found is unknown or cannot be found, the designated authority shall proceed to
abate such nuisance without notice. In either case, the expense of such
abatement shall be collected from the person who may have created or suffered
such nuisance to exist, in addition to any penalty or fine.
(1993 Code, § 25-1-4)
§ 25-1-5 METHAMPHETAMINE CONTAMINATION.
   (A)   Methamphetamine contamination of buildings or structures illegal. It
is unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of a building or other
structure in the city that has been used for the manufacture or storage of
methamphetamine (meth), until the abatement and cleaning practices required by
this section of the code have been complied with. It is also unlawful to occupy
such building or structure, or to permit the same to be occupied, until the
abatement has been fully completed and an occupancy permit for the same has
been issued by the city’s inspector.
   (B)   Methamphetamine contamination abatement. Whenever a building or other
structure, or definable portion thereof, is determined, by a law enforcement
officer, a Health Inspector, a City Building Inspector or other public safety
officer, to have been exposed to toxic chemicals from the manufacture and/or
storage of methamphetamine (meth), the building, structure, or definable
portion thereof, suspected to be contaminated shall be required to be vacated
and to remain unoccupied until cleaned and the contamination abated in
accordance with the requirements of divisions (C) and (D) of this section of
the code.
   (C)   Methamphetamine abatement procedure.  The owner(s) or other person or
party having the occupancy or control of a building or other structure, or
definable portion thereof, determined to be a dangerous building or structure
due to meth contamination, shall be required to have performed, by persons
educated and trained in the abatement of structures contaminated by
methamphetamine manufacture, who have also completed the 40-hour course in
hazardous waste operations and emergency response (HAZWOPER) in accordance with
29 CFR 1910.120, the following, as recommended in the Voluntary Guidelines for
Methamphetamine Laboratory Cleanup published by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, before an occupancy permit to allow the occupancy and use of
the same will be issued by the city’s Building Inspector:
      (1)   Contact the local law enforcement agency to ensure that a hazardous
materials response team has removed all bulk chemicals and equipment used to
make meth.
      (2)   Obtain permission from the City Building Inspector, as prescribed
herein, to perform the remediation procedures.
      (3)   Ventilate the resilience before, during and after cleanup.
      (4)   Do not attempt to perform cleanup activities without using personal
protective equipment, including gloves, long sleeves, long pants, sturdy shoes,
a dust mask and protective eyewear.
      (5)   Remove and dispose of all upholstered furniture, mattresses,
carpet, and other non-machine- washable items. These materials should be
destroyed and double bagged when possible, and quickly disposed of in a
landfill to prevent re-use.
      (6)   Remove and dispose of clothing, toys, bedding, bottles, and other
personal items used by infants and toddlers. Clothing and personal items for
older children and adults may be machine washed two times in hot water and
detergent.
      (7)   Inspect appliances, wall board, ceiling tiles, and plumbing
fixtures throughout the entire house. Remove and dispose of all visibly
contaminated items, or any items that have an odor. Follow the disposal
practices described above. If any plumbing fixtures or drains need to be
flushed, removed or replaced, contact a professional.
      (8)   HEPA filter vacuum floors, walls, and other hard surfaces.
      (9)   Perform a “once-over” washing of the walls and floors with a
detergent and water solution. Be sure to change the cleaning solution
frequently.
      (10)   Clean and seal the heating, ventilation and air conditioning
(HVAC) system. Do not run this system again until all of the cleanup is
complete. Replace all filters in the system, including window units, after
cleanup is complete.
      (11)   Triple wash and rinse ceilings, walls, floors, furniture and other
household items that will not be discarded, with a detergent-water solution.
Washing should thoroughly cover entire surfaces. Change the cleaning and
rinsing solutions frequently.
      (12)   If sampling is to be performed, ensure all surfaces are dry before
sampling.
      (13)   Repaint surfaces after cleaning. An oil-based, epoxy, or
polyurethane primer followed by another coat of paint is recommended.
      (14)   Ventilate the building for three to five days after cleaning.
      (15)   Certify to the City Building Inspector that the prescribed
cleaning has been completed.
   (D)   Permission from City Building Inspector.  The cleaning team must
receive permission from the City Building Inspector before performing the
remediation, and its authorized person must acknowledge in writing that he or
she recognizes the hazards of the remediation, is qualified to perform the
remediation, and holds the city harmless for any injuries resulting from the
remediation. That acknowledgment shall be in the following form:
   ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND RELEASE
   I,                             , hereby state that I am certified to perform
remediation of a structure that has been utilized as a methamphetamine
laboratory located at ________________. I am certified in OSHA HAZWOPER
training, and I hold the city and its officers, agents and employees harmless
in the event of property damage or personal injuries to me as a result of this
remediation.
An occupancy permit shall not be issued until the authorized person also
certifies in writing that he or she has complied with the requirements of this
section.
   (E)   Notice to abate toxic contamination.
      (1)   Abatement notice. Whenever a law enforcement officer, Building
Inspector, Health Officer, Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, or other public safety
officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a building or other structure,
or a definable portion thereof, may be contaminated by toxic chemicals created
by meth manufacture and/or storage, he or she shall file a written statement to
that effect with the city’s Chief of Police and/or the city’s Building
Inspector. The Building Inspector and/or the Police Chief, or their designee,
shall thereupon cause a written notice to be served upon the owner(s) of record
of the building or structure, and/or the person in charge of or in control of
the same, and any lien holder(s) of record, by registered mail or by personal
service. The notice shall state that the toxic nuisance must be abated in
accordance with the requirements of division (C) hereof, and that the premises
must be immediately vacated and an occupancy permit to be issued by the city’s
Building Inspector shall not be issued and the occupancy thereof may not be
restored until the contamination abatement has been completed to the
satisfaction of the city’s Police Chief and/or the city’s Building Inspector,
or their designee.
   (2)   Form of abatement notice.  Such notice may be in the following form:
   TO:              (owner/occupant/lien holders)
   of the premises known and described as (or having the assigned address of)
               .
   YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that (describe building or structure applicable
thereto) the premises above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a
dangerous building or structure after inspection by               . The cause
for this decision is the manufacture and/or storage of methamphetamine causing
the likely contamination of the same by toxic chemicals. You must immediately
vacate the premises or cause the same to be vacated until the toxic nuisance is
abated following the procedures required by division (C) of §
25-1-5 of the city’s Municipal Code (a copy of which is attached hereto), and
an occupancy permit has been issued by the city’s Building Inspector to allow
the building or structure to be occupied and used for occupancy. You are to
clean the subject building or structure and abate the nuisance, as required by
division (C) of § 25-1-5 of the city’s Municipal Code, within 60 days of date
of this notice (unless you are granted an extension by the city’s
   Police Chief or Building Inspector, or their designee), or the city will
seek a court order allowing the city to abate the nuisance or demolish the
building or structure, at the expense of the property owner.
      (3)   Abatement by the city. The city may abate the methamphetamine
contamination or demolish the building or structure upon the granting of a
court order. If the person receiving the notice has not commenced to comply
therewith within 15 days from the date of the service of the notice, or has
commenced compliance but is not making a reasonable effort to complete the same
in the opinion of the City Council (based upon advise received from the city’s
Police Chief and/or Building Inspector), the city may file suit in a court of
competent jurisdiction, seeking an order allowing the city to abate the toxic
nuisance or demolish the building or structure, at the expense of the property
owner.
   (F)   Notice on doorways, penalties and utility shutoff.
      (1)   When reasonable grounds have been found for the presence of meth as
stated herein, a notice shall be placed upon all doorways of the premises
stating as follows:
   THESE PREMISES ARE DECLARED TO BE CONDEMNED UNTIL FURTHER ORDER BY THE CHIEF
OF POLICE. ONLY AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL MAY ENTER THE PREMISES. UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY
IS A DANGER TO YOUR HEALTH
   It shall be illegal for any person to enter these premises or to remove this
notice without authority of the Chief of Police. Violators of this prohibition
shall be subject to a one thousand dollar fine for each violation. Each day
that the notice remains removed and each entry without permission shall
constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   When a property is condemned pursuant to this code, the utility
service shall be terminated and restarted on a temporary basis for authorized
remediation to proceed. Utilities will be turned on when the requirements of
this code for remediation have been met, including provisions relating to
utilities.
   (G)   City’s costs recoverable from property owner. The city’s cost of toxic
nuisance abatement or demolition of a dangerous building or structure due to
methamphetamine contamination shall be recoverable by a property lien and/or an
action at law against the property owner to be filed within 180 days after the
remedial action.
   (H)   Public registry of city, notification by owner and occupancy permit.
The Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall maintain for public inspection
a registry of the owner and occupant of a structure or building contaminated
with methamphetamine, indicating whether the structure or building has been
remediated pursuant to this code of ordinances. Further, the owner shall be
required to notify future owners and tenants of the aforementioned before an
occupancy permit will be issued.
   (I)   State public registry.  The Chief of Police shall notify the National
Clandestine Laboratory Register of Illinois (which may be found on the Illinois
State Police website) that a building or structure has been contaminated by
methamphetamine, and whether it has been remediated pursuant to this code of
ordinances.
   (J)   No guarantee of safety. The city cannot and does not guarantee that
premises remediated per this section are safe for human or animal habitation.
The occupants of premises contaminated by meth do so at their own risk.
(Ord. 1685, passed 6-22-2015)
APPENDIX: NUISANCE VIOLATION NOTIFICATION
[Click_here_to_view_document_in_PDF_format._Adobe_Acrobat_Reader_required.]
CHAPTER 27: OFFENSES
ARTICLE I: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
   
27-1-1   Criminal Code adopted
   
27-1-2   Interference on public way
   
27-1-3   Disturbing church services
   
27-1-4   Disturbing assemblies
   
27-1-5   (Reserved)
   
27-1-6   Intoxication in public
   
27-1-7   Begging
   
27-1-8   Concealed weapons
   
27-1-9   Games in streets
   
27-1-10   Discharging firearms in city; exception
   
27-1-11   Blasting in city
   
27-1-12   Storage of explosives
   
27-1-13   Throwing rocks or missiles
   
27-1-14   Impersonation of officer
   
27-1-15   Destruction of public property
   
27-1-16   Fortune telling
   
27-1-17   Discarded refrigerators
   
27-1-18   Fireworks regulations
   
27-1-19   Curfew established
   
27-1-20   Responsibility of parent
   
27-1-21   Burning trash
   
27-1-22   Conduct in public places
   
27-1-23   Noise
   
27-1-24   Prohibition of open burning
§ 27-1-1 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.  
   The Illinois Criminal Code, ILCS Ch. 720, as passed, approved and amended by
the Illinois General Assembly, is hereby adopted by the city; the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city; provided,
however, the penalties as provided by this code shall apply.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 27-1-2 INTERFERENCE ON PUBLIC WAY. 
   No person or persons shall knowingly interfere, harass or impede with
another person's use of a public way in the city.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-2)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-3 DISTURBING CHURCH SERVICES.
   No person shall, in this city, disturb or disquiet any congregation or
assembly met for religious worship by making any noise or by rude and indecent
behavior, or by profane or obscene discourse, or in any other manner within or
near their place of worship.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-3)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-4 DISTURBING ASSEMBLIES.
   No person shall, in the city, disturb any school or any other lawful
assembly of people, or any funeral assembly or procession, by rude or indecent
behavior or otherwise.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-4)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-5 (RESERVED)
§ 27-1-6 INTOXICATION IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall, in the city, be found in a state of intoxication, or drunk
in any street or other public place, or shall be found drunk, lying or roving
about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of this city or the private grounds of
any of the inhabitants thereof, or, being drunk as aforesaid, shall disturb the
peace, order and quiet of the city or the peace and quiet of the citizens
thereof by loud and unusual noises, disorderly conduct, indecent language or
behavior or in any other manner.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-6)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-7 BEGGING.
   No person shall beg or solicit alms within the city without having obtained
permission in writing from the Mayor.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-7)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-8 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall, within the city, carry or wear under his or her clothes or
concealed about his or her person any pistol, colt, sling-shot, cross knuckles
or knuckles of lead, brass or other metal, any switch-blade knife or razor,
Bowie knife or dirk knife, dirk or dagger, or any other dangerous or deadly
weapon. This section does not apply to the officers or members of the Police
Department, nor to any sheriff or deputy sheriff or constable of this state,
nor to any United States Marshal.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-8)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-9 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall, on any city street, fly any kite, play any game of ball,
engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy any
person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-9)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-10 DISCHARGING FIREARMS IN CITY; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall, within the city, fire or discharge any firearms or air gun
without written permission from the Mayor first obtained, which permission
shall prescribe the limits within which such firing may be done and may be
revoked at any time after it has been granted. A registered gun club shall be
excluded from the provisions of this section, but limited to the club grounds.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-10)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-11 BLASTING IN CITY.
   No person shall, by himself or his agent or employee, fire off any blast,
unless the blast is properly guarded so as to prevent accident to any person or
property, or open any stone quarry within the city without permission of the
City Council.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-11)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-12 STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Nitroglycerine; dynamite and the like. No person shall have, keep,
possess or store, at or in any place within the city, any nitroglycerine,
dynamite or giant powder, or any form or combination of any of them.
   (B)   Blasting powder and the like. No person shall keep, possess or store
any gun or blasting powder, or any gun or explosive cotton at or in any one
place in the city in any quantity exceeding five pounds, except a dealer
thereof or quarryman of rock, or miner, who may keep 25 pounds at any one time.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-12)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-8-4
§ 27-1-13 THROWING ROCKS OR MISSILES.
   No person shall, in the city, throw or cast any stone or any other missile
upon or at any building, tree or other public or private property, or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley or public place.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-13)
§ 27-1-14 IMPERSONATION OF OFFICER.
   No person in the city shall falsely represent himself or herself to be an
officer of the city or shall, without being duly authorized by the city,
exercise or attempt to exercise any of the duties, functions or powers of the
city officer; hinder, obstruct, resist or otherwise interfere with any city
officer in the discharge of the duties of his or her office; attempt to prevent
any such officer from arresting any person, either by force or by giving notice
to such person; attempt to rescue from such officer any person in his or her
custody; impersonate any of the members of the Police Force of this city or
maliciously or with the intention of deceiving any person wear the uniform of
or a uniform similar to that worn by the members of the Police Department, or
use any of the signs, signals or devices adopted and used by the Police
Department.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-14)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-15 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person in the city shall deface, destroy or in any way injure any public
property or any other apparatus of the city.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-15)
§ 27-1-16 FORTUNE TELLING.
   No person in the city shall pursue the calling of a fortune teller or
practice fortune telling, soothsaying or the like, and receive payment in any
manner therefor.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-16)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-17 DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave or permit
to remain outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any
unoccupied or abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his or its
control in a place accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or other container which has an air-tight door
or lid, snap-lock or other locking device which may not be released from the
inside without first removing the door or lid, snap-lock or other device from
the ice box, refrigerator or container.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-17)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-18 FIREWORKS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Defined. The term FIREWORKS shall mean and include any explosive
composition or any substance or combination of substances, or article for the
purpose of producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional
nature by explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include
blank cartridges and toy cannons in which explosives are used; the type of
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same; firecrackers,
torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, sparklers, bombs or other fireworks of
like construction, and any tablets or other device containing any explosive
substance or containing combustible substances producing visual effects,
provided, however that the term FIREWORKS shall not include toy pistols, toy
canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing 0.25
grains or less of explosive compound are used, providing they are so
constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for
the explosion, and the toy pistol, paper or plastic caps which contain less
than 0.25 grains of explosive mixture, excluding recoverage of model rockets
sold for the express use of modelers and/or exhibitions of rocketry, the same
and use of which shall be permitted at all times.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to offer for sale, expose for
sale, sell at retail or use or explode any fireworks within the city limits.
   (C)   Permits.  The Police Chief will authorize the City Clerk to grant
permits for the supervised public display of fireworks. No permit granted
hereunder shall be transferable. Permits may be granted hereunder to any group
of three or more adult individuals applying therefor. No permit shall be
required for supervised public displays by state or county fair associations.
Permits shall be granted only in accordance with state law.
   (D)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made in writing at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display, and action shall be taken
on such application within 48 hours after such application is made.
   (E)   Display. Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual
designated by the Police Chief and shall be of such character and so located,
discharged or fired as not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person
or persons.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-18) (Am. Ord. 1827, passed 7-6-2021)  
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-19 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be present at
or upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the
following times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian
or other responsible companion at least 18 years of age, approved by a parent
or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws
of this state authorize a person less than 17 years of age to perform:
   (A)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m. on
the following day.
   (B)   Between 12:00 Midnight on Friday and Saturday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-19)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-20 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT. 
   It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to
knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate § 27-1-
19.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-20)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5
§ 27-1-21 BURNING TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful at any time for any person, firm or corporation to burn
any trash within the corporate limits of the city.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-21) (Am. Ord. 1500, passed 12-1-2008)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-22 CONDUCT IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk or
public way, except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or
curbline, if such standing interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to stand or loiter in any roadway if such act
interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to impede or interfere with another person's use
of a public way.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to urinate on public ways.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to urinate on private property when such conduct
could be seen from a public way or from private property open to the public.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass, cans, paper
objects, bottles, tacks, nails or other refuse material on the streets of the
city, public ways or on the property abutting said streets or public ways.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to engage in fighting, quarreling or wrangling in
a public place or on property owned by a government entity.
(1993 Code, § 27-1-22) (Ord. 598, passed 7-7-1977; Am. Ord. 1574, passed 2-28-
2011; Am. Ord. 1626, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 27-1-23 NOISE.
   (A)   Excessive noises prohibited. Excluding those exemptions set forth in
division (C) of this section, it is unlawful for any person to make, cause to
be made, or continue, within the corporate limits of the city, any sound or
noise that is determined to be excessive pursuant to the standards set forth in
this section.
   (B)   Definition and measurement of excessive noise.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, "noise" or "sound
level" means the weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of: a) a
sound level meter that meets the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
standards for type 1 or type 2 sound level meters, or an instrument and
associated recording and analyzing equipment that will provide equivalent data,
and b) frequency weighting network "A" as specified in the most recent ANSI
specifications for sound level meters.
      (2)   Only members of the police department or other city employees
authorized by the Chief of Police or Code Administrator may obtain sound levels
to determine whether sound levels comply with this section.
      (3)   The maximum permissible sound levels of any continuous source of
sound within the city shall be 70 dB(A).
      (4)   Sound levels shall be measured from the location where the
complaint has been made at a height of approximately 48 inches above the
immediate surrounding surface, on a sound level meter of standard design and
operated on the "A" weighing network.
   (C)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to sound or noise emitted or caused by:
         (a)    City sponsored or city sanctioned special events and noise
created for the preparation and cleanup of such events (street cleaning, leaf
removal, etc.);
         (b)   Approved special event permits and noise created for the
preparation and cleanup of such events (street cleaning, leaf removal, etc.);
         (c)   Motor vehicles operating on public rights-of-way;
         (d)   All vehicles and equipment operated by the city, any other unit
of government, and any utility, or any of their contractors or subcontractors,
in the course of performing services or work, including, without limitation,
public safety and emergency response services, for the general welfare of the
public or to restore property to a safe condition following a public calamity;
         (e)   All work, activities, vehicles, and equipment related to the
removal of snow and ice from public or private property;
         (f)   Chimes from any church, clock or school;
         (g)   Licensed waste haulers;
         (h)   Generators used to provide electricity to buildings in the event
of a power outage. Noises emanating from regular generator testing and
maintenance cycles is also exempt during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on
Mondays through Saturdays;
         (i)   Any activity conducted or otherwise authorized by any state or
local governmental body;
         (j)   Any reasonable activity undertaken between sunrise and sunset to
maintain private property including, but not limited to, lawn mowing, leaf
blowing, power washing, and trimming/removal of vegetation.
      (2)   The city council has the power, but not an obligation, to grant a
variance to the requirements of this section for noise to be emitted on a
specific date and for a specific duration of time after:
         (a)   Receiving an application for a variance describing the date,
times, and activity for which the variance is requested, and any other
information the city may require;
         (b)   Conducting a public review of the application; and
         (c)   Passing a resolution authorizing the variance.
(Ord. 935, passed 10-24-1994; Am. Ord. 1856, passed 7-18-2022)  
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-1-24 PROHIBITION OF OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause, suffer, allow or permit open burning.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to controlled burning by
the city.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, OPEN BURNING means the burning in open
space outside a building of any combustible discarded material, including, but
not limited to garbage, rubbish, yard trimmings, leaves, bushes, street
cleaning, dead animals, abandoned automobiles or parts thereof.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section shall not apply to the burning of leaves
and yard refuse on Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays between the
hours of 12:00 noon and 4:00 p.m. when such burning is upon privately-owned
property and is not upon city streets, alleys, sidewalks and rights-of-way.
(Ord. 1100, passed 6-21-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE II: CLEAN INDOOR AIR
Section
   
27-2-1   Definitions
   
27-2-2   (Reserved)
   
27-2-3   (Reserved)
   
27-2-4   Prohibited smoking
   
27-2-5   No smoking signs
   
27-2-6   Barriers to smoke movement
§ 27-2-1 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms have the meanings ascribed to them in this article:
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed indoor area used by the public or serving as a
place of work, including but not limited to offices, shops, plants, garages,
libraries, educational facilities, auditoriums, arenas and meetings rooms.
   SMOKING. The act of inhaling the smoke from or possessing a lighted
cigarette, cigar, pipe or any other form of tobacco or similar substance used
for smoking.
(1993 Code, § 27-2-1) (Ord. 826, passed 8-6-1990)
§ 27-2-2 (RESERVED) 
§ 27-2-3 (RESERVED)
§ 27-2-4 PROHIBITED SMOKING.
   There shall be no smoking in all public places under the control of the
city, other than those areas designated for smoking.
(1993 Code, § 27-2-4) (Ord. 826, passed 8-6-1990)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-2-5 NO SMOKING SIGNS. 
   “No smoking” signs shall be posted in all public places under the control of
the city.
(1993 Code, § 27-2-5) (Ord. 826, passed 8-6-1990)
§ 27-2-6 BARRIERS TO SMOKE MOVEMENT.
   In those areas where smoking is permitted, existing physical barriers,
ventilation systems and other physical elements of the premises shall be
utilized to minimize the intrusion of smoke into areas where smoking is not
permitted.
(1993 Code, § 27-2-6) (Ord. 826, passed 8-6-1990)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE III: BODILY HARM
Section
   
27-3-1   Assault
   
27-3-2   Battery
   
27-3-3   Criminal housing management
   
27-3-4   Tattooing body of minor
§ 27-3-1 ASSAULT. 
   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he or she
engages in conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving
a battery. It shall be unlawful to commit an assault.
(1993 Code, § 27-3-1)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-1
§ 27-3-2 BATTERY.
   (A)   A person commits battery if he or she intentionally or knowingly,
without legal justification and by any means:
      (1)   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      (2)   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to commit a battery.
(1993 Code, § 27-3-2)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-3
§ 27-3-3 CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT. 
   A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as a legal
or equitable owner of residential real estate or as a managing agent or
otherwise, he or she knowingly permits by his or her gross carelessness or
neglect, the physical condition or facilities of the residential real estate to
become or remain so deteriorated that the health or safety of any inhabitant is
endangered. Each day shall constitute a separate offense.
(1993 Code, § 27-3-3)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-3-4 TATTOOING BODY OF MINOR.
   (A)   Any person, other than a person licensed to practice medicine in all
its branches, who tattoos or offers to tattoo a person under the age of 18, is
guilty of an offense.
   (B)   As used in this section, TO TATTOO means to insert pigment under the
surface of the skin of a human being by pricking with a needle or otherwise so
as to produce an indelible mark or figure visible through the skin.
(1993 Code, § 27-3-4)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE IV: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
27-4-1   Petty theft
   
27-4-2   Criminal damage to property
   
27-4-3   (Reserved)
   
27-4-4   Criminal trespass to land
   
27-4-5   Trespass
§ 27-4-1 PETTY THEFT. 
   A person commits a petty theft when the value of the property is under $300
and he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner;
   (B)   Obtains by deception, control over property of the owner;
   (C)   Obtains by threat, control over property of the owner; or
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property, knowing the property to have
been stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce
him or her to believe that the property was stolen;
   (E)   Obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of any law
enforcement agency which is explicitly represented to him or her by any law
enforcement officer or any individual acting in behalf of a law enforcement
agency as being stolen; and
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such a manner
as to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property, knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to commit a petty theft. (ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, §
16-1) (1993 Code, § 27-4-1)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-4-2 CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   A person commits criminal damage to property when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly damages any property of another;
      (2)   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damages property of
another;
      (3)   Knowingly starts a fire on the land of another;
      (4)   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his or her
consent;
      (5)   Knowingly deposits on the land or in the building of another any
stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound, and thereby intends to interfere
with the use by another of the land or building;
      (6)   Knowingly damages any property, other than that described in
division (A)(2) of this section, with the intent to defraud an insurer;
      (7)   Knowingly shoots a firearm at any portion of a railroad train;
      (8)   Knowingly, without proper authorization, cuts, injures, damages,
defaces, destroys, or tampers with any fire hydrant or any public or private
fire fighting equipment, or any apparatus appertaining to fire fighting
equipment; or
      (9)   Intentionally, with proper authorization, opens any fire hydrant.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of divisions (A)(1), (3),
or (5) of this section that the owner of the property or land damaged consented
to the damage.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1) (1993 Code, § 27-4-2)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-4-3 (RESERVED)
§ 27-4-4 CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND.
   (A)   Whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof of another after
receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant
that such entry is forbidden or remains upon the land of another after
receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart commits a misdemeanor.
   (B)   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of division (A) if he or she has been notified personally, either
orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry
has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or
the forbidden part thereon.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person, whether a migrant worker or
otherwise, living on the land with permission of the owner or of his or her
agent having apparent authority to hire workers on the land and assign them
living quarters or a place of accommodations for living thereon, nor to anyone
living on the land at the request of or by occupancy, leasing or other
agreement or arrangement with the owner or his or her agent, nor to anyone
invited by such migrant worker or other person living on such land to visit him
or her at the place he or she is so living upon the land.
(1993 Code, § 27-4-4)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3
§ 27-4-5 TRESPASS.
   (A)   Trespasses prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within this municipality upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically enumerated trespasses; suppression. Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of division(A) hereof, any of the following
acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included among those
that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of division (A), and
appropriate action may be taken hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to
prevent or suppress any violation or violations of this article, the aforesaid
enumerated acts so included, being as follows, to-wit:
      (1)   An entry upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or entry, or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
      (2)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to the premises or at any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protect given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
      (3)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case
of being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
      (4)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
      (5)   (a)   Regardless of whether there is a physical trespass pursuant
to §
27-4-5(B) of this code, a person is liable for trespass of property when that
person knowingly attempts to capture or knowingly captures any type of visual
image, visual recording, sound recording, or other physical impression of
another engaging in private, personal, or familial activity, in a place in
which the person observed has a reasonable expectation of privacy and that
impression could not have been achieved without a physical trespass unless the
device was used.
         (b)   For the purpose of clarification, this section shall not be
construed to impair or limit the following:
            1.   Otherwise lawful activities of law enforcement personnel
operating in the course and scope of their employment; or
            2.   Otherwise lawful activities of personnel of governmental
agencies, operating in the course and scope of their employment; or
            3.   Otherwise lawful activities of private commercial entities
operating in the course and scope of their employment.
(1993 Code, § 27-4-5) (Am. Ord. 1737, passed 10-16-2017) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
Cross-reference:
   See Solicitors,
Ch. 7, Art. II
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-2
ARTICLE V: PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND DECENCY
Section
   
27-5-1   Mob action
   
27-5-2   Disorderly conduct; elements of the offense
   
27-5-3   Resisting or obstructing a peace officer, firefighter, or correctional
institution employee
   
27-5-4   Refusing to aid an officer
   
27-5-5   Water wells; notification of city; penalty
§ 27-5-1 MOB ACTION.
   (A)   A person commits mob action when he or she engages in any of the
following:
      (1)   The knowing or reckless use of force or violence disturbing the
public peace by two or more persons acting together and without authority of
law;
      (2)   The knowing assembly of two or more persons with the intent to
commit or facilitate the commission of a felony or misdemeanor; or
      (3)   The knowing assembly of two or more persons without authority of
law, for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone
supposed to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of
exercising correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by
violence.
   (B)   A participant in a mob action who does not withdraw when commanded to
do so by a peace officer commits a misdemeanor.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1) (1993 Code, § 27-5-1)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 27-5-2 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; ELEMENTS OF THE OFFENSE.
   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
   (B)   With intent to annoy another, makes a telephone call, whether or not
conversation thereby ensues;
   (C)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists;
   (D)   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive device of any nature is concealed in such a place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive device is concealed in such a place;
   (E)   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   (F)   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it.
(ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-3) (1993 Code, § 27-5-2)
§ 27-5-3 RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER, FIREFIGHTER, OR CORRECTIONAL
INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   (1)   A person who knowingly:
         (a)   Resists arrest, or
         (b)   Obstructs the performance by one known to the person to be a
peace officer, firefighter, or correctional institution employee of any
authorized act within his or her official capacity commits a Class A
misdemeanor.
      (2)   In addition to any other sentence that may be imposed, a court
shall order any person convicted of resisting or obstructing a peace officer,
firefighter, or correctional institution employee to be sentenced to a minimum
of 48 consecutive hours of imprisonment or ordered to perform community service
for not less than 100 hours as may be determined by the court. The person shall
not be eligible for probation in order to reduce the sentence of imprisonment
or community service.
      (3)   A person convicted for a violation of this section whose violation
was the proximate cause of an injury to a peace officer, firefighter, or
correctional institution employee is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEE means
any person employed to supervise and control inmates incarcerated in a
penitentiary, state farm, reformatory, prison, jail, house of correction,
police detention area, half-way house, or other institution or place for the
incarceration or custody of persons under sentence for offenses or awaiting
trial or sentence for offenses, under arrest for an offense, a violation of
probation, a violation of parole, a violation of aftercare release, a violation
of mandatory supervised release, or awaiting a hearing or preliminary hearing
on setting the conditions for pretrial release, or who are sexually dangerous
persons or who are sexually violent persons; and FIREFIGHTER means any
individual, either as an employee or volunteer, of a regularly constituted fire
department of a municipality or fire protection district who performs fire
fighting duties, including, but not limited to, the fire chief, assistant fire
chief, captain, engineer, driver, ladder person, hose person, pipe person, and
any other member of a regularly constituted fire department. FIREFIGHTER also
means a person employed by the Office of the State Fire Marshal to conduct
arson investigations.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this section if a
person resists or obstructs the performance of one known by the person to be a
firefighter by returning to or remaining in a dwelling, residence, building, or
other structure to rescue or to attempt to rescue any person.
   (D)   A person shall not be subject to arrest for resisting arrest under
this section unless there is an underlying offense for which the person was
initially subject to arrest.
(ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1) (1993 Code, § 27- 5-3)
§ 27-5-4 REFUSING TO AID AN OFFICER.
   Whoever, upon command, refuses or knowingly fails reasonably to aid a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer in:
   (A)   Apprehending a person whom the officer is authorized to apprehend; or
   (B)   Preventing the commission by another of any offense commits a
misdemeanor.
(1993 Code, § 27-5-4)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, see ILCS Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8
§ 27-5-5 WATER WELLS; NOTIFICATION OF CITY; PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of any real estate located within the city, which has an
existing water well, cistern or other artificial water source located on the
real estate, shall notify the city of such fact. The notice shall contain the
location of the existing water well, cistern or other artificial water source.
   (B)   The owner of any real estate located within the city shall, ten days
before installing a water well, cistern or other artificial source of water,
notify the city of such planned installation, and furnish to the city a written
plan for same, containing the location of such proposed water well, cistern or
other artificial water source.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
this code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(1993 Code, § 27-5-5) (Ord. 783, passed 11-21-1988; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-
26-2009)
ARTICLE VI: TRUANCY
Section
   
27-6-1   Definitions
   
27-6-2   Truancy restrictions
   
27-6-3   Enforcement
   
27-6-4   Penalty
§ 27-6-1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, unless the context requires otherwise, the
following words or phrases shall mean:
   COMMUNITY SERVICE. A penalty requiring that an offender convicted of a
relatively minor crime do unpaid work that is beneficial to the community.
   CUSTODIAN.
      (1)   A person who under court order is the custodian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor;
or
      (3)   A person acting in the role of a parent by reason of a private
agreement, arrangement, custom or habit.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to,
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A parent; or
      (2)   A person who under court order is the GUARDIAN of the person of a
minor; or
      (3)   A public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor.
   MINOR. A person who is under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. The parent, guardian or custodian having the care and
custody of a minor.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   TRUANT.  A child who is subject to compulsory school attendance and who is
absent without valid cause, as defined in ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, § 26-2a, from
such attendance for more than 1% but less than 5% of the past 180 school days
(ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, § 26-2a).
   TRUANT OFFICER. Any officer, appointee, employee or other agent of any
school district, or any federal, state or local governmental entity, or any
agency thereof, performing the duties of a TRUANT OFFICER under the Illinois
Compulsory Attendance Statute (ILCS Ch. 105, Act 5, §§ 26-1 et seq.).
   TRUANCY REVIEW BOARD. An agency or entity established by any school district
or any federal, state or local governmental entity recognized by the city and/
or the court as an agency that provides service to improve educational
performance and/or attendance.
(Ord. 1510, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 1554, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 27-6-2 TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education or
to compulsory continuation education by statute or court order to be absent
without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit or, by insufficient control, to allow the minor to be absent
without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
   (C)   It is a defense to a violation under this Article VI that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child's parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child's parent, guardian
or custodian;
      (3)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A school-sanctioned activity;
         (c)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         (d)   A religious event;
         (e)   An activity involving the exercise of the child's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, the
Constitution of the State of Illinois, or both, such as freedom of speech and
the right of assembly; or
         (f)   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training or other care under the supervision of
one or more adults;
      (4)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location
outside Illinois to another location outside Illinois.
(Ord. 1510, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 1554, passed 7-6-2010)
Penalty, see § 27-6-4
§ 27-6-3 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every member of the Police Department while on duty is hereby
authorized to temporarily detain any minor alleged to be in violation of the
provisions of this article (regardless of whether a citation is immediately
issued) until the parent, guardian or custodian of the minor shall take him or
her into custody.
      (1)   Such officer shall immediately upon taking custody of the minor
reasonably attempt to communicate with the parent, guardian or custodian of the
minor, unless division (A)(3) hereinafter is applicable.
      (2)   A parent, guardian, or custodian must take custody of the minor
within one hour of the time of notice or be subject to a charge of $25 per hour
as hereinafter provided.
      (3)   As an alternative to contacting the parent, guardian or custodian,
every member of the Police Department while on duty, and at his or her complete
discretion, is hereby authorized to temporarily detain any minor violating the
provisions of this article, regardless of whether a citation is issued, and to
deliver and surrender the minor to the lawful authorities of the school that
the minor would normally attend.
   (B)   Before taking any enforcement action, a police officer shall ask the
apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The officer
shall not issue a citation or make an arrest unless the officer reasonably
believes an offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other
circumstances, no defense contained in §
27-6-2(C) is present.
   (C)   A citation issued hereunder shall be in writing and shall:
      (1)   State the name of the person being cited and the person's address,
if known;
      (2)   Set forth the specific section of this article that was violated,
the date, time and location of the violation, and a brief description of the
violation;
      (3)   Be signed by the issuing police officer, truant officer or
complaining party.
   (D)   In each instance where a citation is issued to a minor for violation
of this article, a minor's parent, guardian or custodian shall be provided a
copy of the citation, notifying the parent, guardian or custodian of the charge
made against the minor.
   (E)   A minor cited for a violation under this article must attend a court
hearing on the citation, and must be accompanied at the hearing by his or her
parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the legal care and
custody of the minor.
      (1)   If any such person fails to attend any court hearing with the
minor, and unless the interest of justice would otherwise be served, the court
may continue the hearing and shall issue a notice or a rule to show cause to
the person, directing that person to appear at the continued hearing with the
minor.
      (2)   Failure of the person to thereafter appear shall subject that
person to sanctions for contempt of court as determined by the court.
(Ord. 1510, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 1554, passed 7-6-2010)
Penalty, see § 27-6-4
§ 27-6-4 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who so absents himself or herself without permission shall
be guilty of the offense of truancy and, if of the age of 13 years or older,
such violator shall be subject to the penalty set forth below.
      (1)   Upon the first conviction, the payment of a fine in an amount not
to exceed $75, in addition to court costs;
      (2)   Upon the second conviction within a one-year period, the payment of
a fine of not less than $100, in addition to court costs;
      (3)   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to division (1) or (2)
above, the violator may be ordered to pay all costs associated with this
article;
      (4)   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to division (1) or (2)
above, the violator may be ordered to fulfill community service hours as
directed by the court; and
      (5)   In addition, the failure to pay the costs previously described
shall constitute a violation of this article, and subject the violator to the
penalties described herein above.
   (B)   If the person who is guilt of truancy is under the age of 13 years,
the parent or custodian of the violator is subject to the foregoing fines or
community service.
(Ord. 1510, passed 5-4-2009; Am. Ord. 1554, passed 7-6-2010)
ARTICLE VII: ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS
Section
   
27-7-1   Prohibition
   
27-7-2   Definitions
   
27-7-3   Sale
   
27-7-4   Identification
   
27-7-5   Possession by minor
   
27-7-6   Penalty
§ 27-7-1 PROHIBITION.
   Distribution of alternative nicotine products to persons under 21 years of
age is prohibited. Possession of nicotine products by persons under 21 years of
age is prohibited.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018; Am. Ord. 1787, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 27-7-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this Section, ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT means a
product or device not consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the
ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing,
dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by any other means. ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCT excludes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other tobacco
products as these terms are defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 675-1.5, § 1, and any
product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as a non-
tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco
dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and
sold solely for that approval purpose.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 27-7-3 SALE.
   A person, either directly or indirectly by an agent or employee, or by a
vending machine owned by the person or located in the person's establishment,
may not sell, offer for sale, give, or furnish any alternative nicotine
product, or any cartridge or component of an alternative nicotine product, to a
person under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018 ; Am. Ord. 1787, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 27-7-4 IDENTIFICATION.
   Before selling, offering for sale, giving, furnishing an alternative
nicotine product, or any cartridge or component of an alternative nicotine
product, to another person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving, or
furnishing the alternative nicotine product shall verify that the person is at
least 21 years of age by:
   (A)   Examining from any person that appears to be under 27 years of age a
government-issued photographic identification that establishes the person is at
least 21 years of age or
   (B)   For sales made through the Internet or other remote sales methods,
performing an age verification through an independent, third-party age
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the person during the ordering process that
establishes the person is 21 years of age or older.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018; Am. Ord. 1787, passed 8-5-2019)
§ 27-7-5 POSSESSION BY MINOR.
   A person under 18 years of age shall not possess an alternative nicotine
product.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018)
§ 27-7-6 PENALTY.
   Violators shall be subject to the penalties set forth below:
   (A)   Upon the first conviction, the payment of a fine not to exceed $50, in
addition to court costs.
   (B)   Upon the second conviction the payment of a fine not to exceed $75, in
addition to court costs.
   (C)   Upon the third or subsequent conviction a payment of a fine not to
exceed $100, in addition to court costs.
(Ord. 1767, passed 11-19-2018)
CHAPTER 28: PARKS
ARTICLE I: REGULATIONS
Section
   
28-1-1   Preamble
   
28-1-2   Prohibited acts on the lakes, shorelines and roadways at Lakeview Park
   
28-1-3   Prohibited acts as enacted by the park district governing all parts of
parks of the park district, with the exception of the lakes, shorelines and
roadways of Lakeview Park
   
28-1-4   Penalties for acts prohibited by either the city or the park district
   
28-1-5   Prosecution of violations
   
28-1-6   No impediment to prosecution of other city ordinances or state
statutes
   
28-1-7   Organizational use of Lakeview Park
   
28-1-8   Applicability and enforcement of rules
§ 28-1-1 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The following parks in the city are wholly owned by the Waterloo Park
District (hereinafter “park district”), a municipal body, separate and apart
from the city: Konarcik Park, Koenigsmark Park, Zimmer Park and Lion’s Club
Park. These parks are governed by the ordinances of the park district, whose
ordinances are made part of the code of ordinances only for the purpose of
enforcing prohibitive rules by the Police Department, pursuant to an
intergovernmental agreement entered into by and between the city and the park
district.
   (B)   Lakeview Park is owned by the city and leased to the park district,
except for the lakes and adjacent seashore lines. Also, maintenance of the
roadways is the responsibility of the city. Accordingly, the ordinances of the
park district govern Lakeview Park, with the exception of ordinances relating
to the lake, adjacent shoreline and roadways, which areas are governed by the
city.
   (C)   The prohibitive rules of the park district are made part of the code
of ordinances for the purpose of enforcing these rules by the Police
Department, pursuant to an intergovernmental agreement by and between the city
and the park district. The prohibited acts as set out in § 28-1-2 are
applicable to Lakeview Park.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-2 PROHIBITED ACTS ON THE LAKES, SHORELINES AND ROADWAYS OF LAKEVIEW
PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation using the lakes or
shorelines of Lakeview Park to either perform or permit to be performed, abet,
cause or induce the performance of any of the following acts:
   (A)   Knowingly mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any building, bridges, tables, benches, fireplaces, railings, paving or
paving material, vegetation, water line or other public utilities, or parts of
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
   (B)   Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be placed in the
waters of any lake, or on the shoreline of any lake, any substance, matter or
thing, liquid or solid, which will or may result in the pollution and
obstruction of the lake or shoreline;
   (C)   Bring in or dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes,
paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, dog excrement or refuse or
other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any waters in or
contiguous to the park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be
placed in the proper receptacle where those are provided; and where receptacles
are not provided, such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the park by
the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed of elsewhere;
   (D)   Prevent, impede or intimidate any person from using the park or
interfere with such use if it is in compliance with this code and the rules
applicable thereto;
   (E)   Swim, bathe or wade in any waters within the territory described as
Lakeview Park;
   (F)   Launch any boat directly from a trailer, except in those areas where
such launching of boats from trailers is expressly permitted;
   (G)   Place, launch or float any boat or raft or other buoyant device on the
waters of any of the lakes, where the boat, raft or other buoyant device is
driven or otherwise propelled by a motor or engine, except where the boat, raft
or other buoyant device is driven by a trolling motor operated by direct
electrical current;
   (H)   Drive or otherwise operate a vehicle on the lands or on the property
of Lakeview Park, except on established and maintained roads, except that any
such vehicle may be parked not further than 12 feet from the side of the
established and maintained roads or in any designated parking area;
   (I)   Ride, drive or otherwise operate a motor bike or motorcycle within the
territorial limits of Lakeview Park, except as they may be operated for the
purpose of ingress and egress to and from specifically designated motorcycle
and motorbike parking areas;
   (J)   Operate a vehicle upon the roadways having a gross weight in excess of
6,500 pounds except as permitted by the city;
   (K)   Operate a vehicle upon the roadways in excess of ten miles per hour;
   (L)   Trap, catch, wound, kill, or treat cruelly, or attempt to trap, catch,
wound, kill, or treat cruelly, any bird or animal, or disturb any nest of a
bird or animal, on the Lakeview Park premises, except that the city may
exercise reasonable animal control for the protection of persons or property.
Fishing, in season, is permitted, subject to city ordinances; however, the use
of minnows as bait is prohibited. One bass at least 17 inches in length, and
five bass less than 14 inches in length, may be taken per day. The minimum size
crappie that can be taken is ten inches, with a maximum of ten crappies per
day. Seining and dip netting of fish is prohibited;
   (M)   Be present in the park between the hours of dusk and dawn;
   (N)   Camp between the hours of dusk and dawn, except with permission of the
park district;
   (O)   Bring any dangerous animal into the park or permit any dog to be in
the park, unless the dog is on a leash not more than six feet long;
   (P)   Vend, sell, pedal or otherwise offer for sale any commodity or article
within Lakeview Park unless permission is granted by the park district;
   (Q)   Ice skate.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-3 PROHIBITED ACTS AS ENACTED BY THE PARK DISTRICT GOVERNING ALL PARTS OF
PARKS OF THE PARK DISTRICT, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE LAKES, SHORELINES AND
ROADWAYS OF LAKEVIEW PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation using any of the
parks, with the exception of Lakeview Park (lake, shoreline and roadways), to
either perform or permit to be performed, abet, cause or induce the performance
of any of the following acts:
   (A)   Animals. No person shall lead or allow to be loose upon the park
premises any animal, except that horses may be ridden by the persons in charge
thereof, or driven before a vehicle attached thereto, on such portions of the
park premises as may be designated for riding and driving. Dogs may be taken
onto park premises, provided they are held by a suitable leash, line, chain, or
strap. Patrons are required to clean up their animals’ feces.
   (B)   Games and sports.  No water slides or inflatable playground equipment
or similar equipment shall be used on park premises.
   (C)   Firearms and fireworks.  No person shall carry or discharge a firearm,
bow and arrow, B-B gun, pellet gun, or air gun, or discharge or set off any
rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib, or other firework or thing containing any
substance of an explosive nature on the park premises, except with permission
from the Park Board and the Mayor.
   (D)   Throwing objects.  No person shall throw or cast any stones, rocks,
projectiles, or missiles within the park premises, except with permission from
the Board. Informal lawn games, such as ladder jacks, washers, boomerangs, and
the like, are permitted if not intrusive to other park patrons.
   (E)   Wheeled vehicles. No person shall bring, park, or use any wheeled
vehicle of any type upon any grass, wooded area, walking trail, walkway,
trails, court, pavilion, or water portion of the park premises, except as
otherwise posted or with permission from the Board. Vehicles used by disabled
persons are permitted. WHEELED VEHICLES include, but are not limited to: cars,
trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, scooters, golf carts, bicycles, skateboards,
roller blades, roller skates, and similar devices. Vehicles (other than those
used to provide services within park premises) shall not exceed 6,500 pounds.
   (F)   Roadways.  No vehicle may be driven upon any street of the park
premises at a speed of greater than ten miles per hour. Parking is prohibited
on all roadways.
   (G)   Hindering employees. No person shall interfere with or in any manner
hinder any employee or contractor of the park district while that employee or
contractor is engaged in constructing, repairing, or caring for any park
property.
   (H)   Soliciting or offering articles for sale and begging prohibited.  No
person shall offer for sale or exchange any article or thing, or do any
hawking, peddling, begging, or soliciting, or buy or offer to buy any article
or thing, or take up any collection or solicit or receive money or anything of
value on park premises, except with permission from the Board.
   (I)   Public meetings. No person shall call or hold any public meeting or
give any concert or public entertainment of any kind on the park premises,
except upon written request with written permission from the Board obtained
prior to the event. The Board shall be furnished with an acceptable certificate
of insurance prior to the event.
   (J)   Restricted parts of the park.  No person shall enter upon any portion
of the park premises where persons are prohibited from going by direction of
the Superintendent, as indicated by sign or notice.
   (K)   Improper speech and conduct. No person shall use any abusive,
threatening, insulting, indecent, profane, or obscene language, or language
calculated to cause a breach of the peace, nor be guilty of any indecent act or
behavior on park premises.
   (L)   Water body usage.  No person or animal shall swim in, ski on, wade in,
or skate on any lake, creek, or body of water of the park premises. Boats may
be launched from permitted launch areas. The only boat motors that may be used
are trolling motors powered by electric current.
   (M)   Opening and closing hours. Except as provided in division (N), the
park premises shall be open from dawn to dusk. No person shall be on the park
premises outside those hours except with permission from the Board. Any person
found to be on park premises outside of the open hours without permission shall
be deemed a trespasser and shall be fined (see §
28-1-4).
   (N)   Skate park usage. The skate park facility is open from 9:00 a.m. to 9:
00 p.m. The hours of operation are subject to change with Board approval. The
rules are displayed on site and at the website www.waterlooparkdistrict.org.
   (O)   Use of playground equipment by adults prohibited. No adult person
shall in any manner use playground apparatus or devices meant exclusively for
the use of children,
   (P)   Obstructing travel.  No person shall place or cause to be set or
placed, any goods, merchandise, or property of any and so as to obstruct travel
within the park premises. There shall be no parking on grass.
   (Q)   Fires, portable barbecue pits.  No person shall light or make use of
any fire in the park premises, except such portions thereof as may be
designated by the Superintendent, and then only under such rules as prescribed
by the Superintendent. The bringing or use of a portable barbecue grill in the
pavilions of the park premises is absolutely prohibited.
   (R)   Intoxication, controlled substances. No intoxicated person and/or
person under the influence of a controlled substance, whether by alcohol,
drugs, or other substance, shall enter, be, or remain on the park premises.
   (S)   Dumping articles.  No person shall deposit, dump, throw, or place any
ashes, manure, feces, or rubbish in or upon any part of the park premises.
Paper, garbage, or refuse matter generated by park users shall be deposited in
receptacles provided for that purpose. The dumpsters on the park premises are
for disposal of refuse generated on the park premises, and should be filled
only by employees of the park.
   (T)   Advertisements.  No person shall distribute or post any placard,
pamphlet, or advertisement of any kind on the park premises.
   (U)   Fortune telling, gambling.  No person shall tell fortunes or gamble,
as defined by Illinois statutes, on park premises.
   (V)   Protecting of birds and animals, fishing regulations. No person shall
trap, catch, wound, kill, or treat cruelly, or attempt to trap, catch, wound,
kill, or treat cruelly, any bird or animal, or disturb any nest of any bird or
animal, on the park premises, except that the Board or Superintendent may
exercise reasonable animal control for the protection of persons or property.
Fishing (with valid license), in season, is permitted, subject to city
ordinances and park regulations; however, the use of minnows as bait is
prohibited. Seining or using nets to capture fish and aquatic animals is
prohibited. One bass at least 17 inches in length, and five bass less than 14
inches in length, may be taken per day. The minimum size crappie to be taken is
ten inches, with a maximum number of ten crappies per day.
   (W)   Bringing plants, shrubs, or trees prohibited.  No person shall bring
into or upon the park premises any tree, shrub, or plant, or any portion
thereof.
   (X)   Damage to park property. No person shall cut, break, climb on, or in
any way injure or deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, building, fence, bridge,
lamp, post, sign, or other structure or property within the park premises.
   (Y)   Breach of peace, disorderly conduct.  No person shall make,
countenance, or assist in making any improper noise, disturbance, breach of the
peace, or diversion tending to a breach of the peace, on the park premises, or
be guilty of any disorderly conduct therein or gather with other persons for
unlawful purposes, or act with the purpose of annoyance or obstruction or
disturbance of other persons on park premises.
   (Z)   Resisting or interference.  No person shall resist any Board member or
Superintendent or police officer in the discharge of his or her duty, or fail
or refuse to obey any lawful command of any such person or in any way interfere
with or hinder or prevent any such person from the discharge of his or her
duty, or in any manner assist any person in custody to escape or attempt to
escape from custody.
   (AA)   Impersonation of officers, Superintendent, and Board members. No
person shall pretend to be a police officer, Board member, or the
Superintendent.
   (BB)   Definition of resident, proof of residency. A RESIDENT is defined as
any person who resides within the boundaries of the park district as
established by ordinance, A NON-RESIDENT is any person not residing within the
boundaries of the park district. Residency may be verified by a valid Illinois
driver’s license, city utility bill, or real estate tax bill.
   (CC)   Statement of park district residency required for fee determination.
A statement of resident status is required on applications for use of park
facilities. The classification of fees shall be based on resident status.
Pavilion use is awarded based on the first applicant to pay the fee.
   (DD)   Pavilion reservation time limitations and liability for damage. For
the purpose of reserving pavilions, reservations will not be accepted more than
364 days prior to the intended use date. The person reserving the pavilion is
responsible for the damages caused by and the conduct of that person’s group.
Reservation forms are available at www.waterlooparkdistrict.org.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-4 PENALTIES FOR ACTS PROHIBITED BY EITHER THE CITY OR THE PARK DISTRICT.
   All violations of regulating ordinances of the city and the park district,
as encompassed herein, shall be subject to penalties as imposed by §
1-1-19. Fine proceeds will be the property of the city.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-5 PROSECUTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The city will be responsible for the prosecution of violations and will have
complete discretion in decisions relating to prosecution. Arrests and
prosecutions may be made without the necessity of either an oral or written
complaint by a representative of the park district.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-6 NO IMPEDIMENT TO ENFORCEMENT OF OTHER CITY ORDINANCES OR STATE
STATUTES.
   This chapter and the prohibited acts contained therein are not an impediment
to the enforcement by the city of other city ordinances or state statutes; and
the park district, by approval of this chapter by intergovernmental agreement,
acknowledges the authority of the city to such enforcement within the parks
under its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-7 ORGANIZATIONAL USE OF LAKEVIEW PARK.
   Whenever any group, association or organization desires to use the Lakeview
Park facilities for any particular purpose, such as picnics, parties,
theatrical and entertainment performances, a representative of that group,
organization or association shall first obtain a permit from the park district
reservation secretary for that purpose.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
§ 28-1-8 APPLICABILITY AND ENFORCEMENT OF RULES.
   By virtue of an intergovernmental agreement between the city and the park
district, the city agrees to enforce the rules and regulations of the park
district, and the park district agrees to not interfere with the enforcement of
its rules and regulations or the enforcement of the prohibited acts of the
city, as set out herein.
(Ord. 1624, passed 1-21-2013)
CHAPTER 29: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
29-1-1   Title; purpose
   
29-1-2   Scope
   
29-1-3   Effect on existing ordinances; remedies
   
29-1-4   Code enforcement guidelines
   
29-1-5   Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy required
   
29-1-6   Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy application
   
29-1-7   Action on an application
   
29-1-8   Issuance of permit
   
29-1-9   Conditional permit
   
29-1-10   Rejection of application
   
29-1-11   Invalidity of permit
   
29-1-12   Revocation of permit
   
29-1-13   Existing residential and commercial/industrial occupancies
   
29-1-14   Unscheduled inspections
§ 29-1-1 TITLE; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City of Waterloo, IL hereby adopts the 2021 International Property
Maintenance Code (IPMC). The regulations of the IPMC and this chapter shall be
known together as the "Property Maintenance Code", hereinafter referred to as
the "Property Maintenance Code" or "this code."
   (B)   This code is to establish minimum acceptable standards in the city
which must be maintained in buildings, structures, premises and facilities to
protect health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-2 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all residential and
nonresidential structures and all premises and constitute minimum requirements
and standards for premises, structures, equipment and facilities for light,
ventilation, space, heating, sanitation, protection from the elements, life
safety, safety from fire and other hazards, and for safe and sanitary
maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators and occupants; the
occupancy of existing structures and premises, and for administration,
enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-3 EFFECT ON EXISTING ORDINANCES; REMEDIES.
   (A)   This code establishes minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of all structures and premises, and does not
replace or modify requirements otherwise established by ordinance which may be
additional or more stringent for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
structures, equipment or facilities.
   (B)   The provisions in this code shall not be construed to prevent the
enforcement of other ordinances or regulations which prescribe standards
stricter than are provided herein.
   (C)   The provisions in this code shall not be deemed to abolish or impair
existing remedies of the city or its officers or agencies relating to the
removal or demolition of any buildings which are deemed to be dangerous, unsafe
and unsanitary.
   (D)   This code shall not affect violations of any other ordinances, codes
or regulations existing prior to the effective date hereof, and any such
violation shall be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the full
extent of the law under the provisions of those ordinances, codes or
regulations in effect at the time the violation was committed.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-4 CODE ENFORCEMENT GUIDELINES.
   (A)   Building and construction codes.
      (1)   Any repairs or alterations to a structure or changes of use
therein, which may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this
code, shall be done in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the
Building Code adopted in Chapter 6 of the city's Municipal Code.
      (2)   Any repair, alteration or replacement of structural elements of a
building, which may be required by the provisions of these guidelines, shall be
done in accordance with the applicable sections of the Building Code,
Electrical Code, Plumbing Code or other applicable code or ordinance of this
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Zoning Code. The provisions of these guidelines shall not permit the
abridgement or violation of the Zoning Code of this municipality.
   (C)   Conflicts. Specific provisions of these guidelines indicate their
precedence over the requirements of other related codes and ordinances. Where
specific precedence is not indicated, the requirements of the most restrictive
code or ordinance prevail.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-5  CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to occupy, or
permit to be occupied, any rental dwelling unit or rental or non-rental
commercial/industrial unit, without obtaining a Certificate of Building
Maintenance and Occupancy ("occupancy permit") described in §
29-1-8, or a conditional permit described in §
29-1-9.
   (B)   For purposes of this code, an on-premises inspection shall be required
and an occupancy permit required for each of the following events or
occurrences:
      (1)   Change in rental dwelling unit or rental or non-rental commercial/
industrial unit occupancy. Whenever there is a change in occupancy of any
structure containing a rental dwelling unit or a rental or non-rental
commercial/industrial unit, an application for an occupancy permit shall be
made by the owner thereof, or by his or her duly authorized agent or
representative, and filed with the Building Inspector/Code Administrator. If an
occupancy permit was previously issued for such structure within a 12-month
period prior to the change in occupancy, a new occupancy permit for the change
in occupancy shall be required; however, a re-inspection shall not be required.
         (a)   Exception 1. Assisted living facilities and the crisis apartment
(s) owned or operated by Human Support Services, which shall apply for an
occupancy permit and be inspected on an annual basis.
         (b)   Exception 2. Skilled nursing and supportive living facilities
that are inspected on an annual or more frequent basis by the Illinois
Department of Health and/or the Illinois Department of Healthcare and Family
Services, which are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Complaint received. Upon receipt of a complaint filed by a tenant
occupying a rental dwelling or a rental or non-rental commercial/industrial
unit.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section to the contrary,
a Certificate of Use and Occupancy issued by the Building Official under the
authority given and requirements stated in the city's Building Code (
Chapter 6 of the city's Municipal Code) will be considered and is to be
expressly distinguished from a Certificate of Building Maintenance and
Occupancy under this code.
   (C)   Exempt property. Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding
divisions (A) and (B) of this section, neither an on-premises inspection nor a
Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy shall be required for newly
constructed structures for which a Certificate of Use and Occupancy has been
issued by the Building Official under the authority given and requirements
stated in the city's Building Code until after the lapse of five years
following the date of the issuance of said Certificate of Use and Occupancy;
nor shall an on- premises inspection or a Certificate of Building Maintenance
and Occupancy be required of a single-family dwelling unit upon change of
occupancy, unless same has been rented during the preceding 12 months.
   (D)   A fee for each inspection, Certificate of Building Maintenance and
Occupancy issued, and re-inspection, if required, shall be paid as required in
accordance with the schedule as established by
Chapter 12 of the city's Municipal Code, as amended from time to time, or other
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord 1548, passed 4-26-2010; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024) Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 29-1-6 CERTIFICATE OF BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND OCCUPANCY APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy
required by this code shall be made by the owner of the structure containing
the dwelling/commercial/industrial unit or by his or her duly authorized
representative. If the application is made by a person other than the owner in
fee, it shall be accompanied by a signed statement of the owner to the effect
that the applicant is authorized by the owner in fee to make such application.
The full names and addresses of the owner, or the name and address of the
responsible party if the owner is a corporation, trust or other type of legal
entity that is not a natural person, and the name and address of the applicant
shall be stated in the application.
   (B)   The application for such certificate shall be submitted in such form
as the Building Inspector/Code Administrator prescribes and shall be filed with
the Building Inspector/Code Administrator whenever one of the events described
in §
29-1-5(B)(1) require an inspection and issuance of an occupancy permit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement on an application for an occupancy permit for a dwelling unit as to
the names, relationships or number of occupants who will occupy the dwelling
unit.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 29-1-7 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall examine or cause to be
examined all applications for permits and shall schedule the inspection, if
required, to be completed within seven working days after filing. If the
premises are not in compliance with this code and all laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, the Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall provide the
applicant with a list of defects that are not in compliance. Said defects shall
be listed with as much specificity as possible. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling unit and its premises will give the Building Inspector/Code
Administrator free access thereto, within and at a reasonable time, for the
purpose of such inspection.
   (B)   In the event practical difficulties prevent the inspection from being
made within five working days after filing, occupancy shall be permitted on a
conditional basis as described in §
29-1-9, until the examination and inspection can be made as in division (A)
above.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1553, passed 6-28-2010; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-8 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When all fees are paid and a dwelling unit or a rental or non-rental
commercial/industrial unit is entitled thereto, the Building Inspector/Code
Administrator shall issue a Certificate of Building Maintenance and Occupancy.
The certificate shall certify compliance with the provisions of this code,
shall state the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy the dwelling
unit in accordance with the provisions of city ordinances, street address or
other means of identification, date of issue, and such other information as the
Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall deem appropriate for the
implementation of this code.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord 1548, passed 4-26-2010; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-9 CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   Occupancy shall be permitted on a conditional basis when, in the judgment of
the Building Inspector/Code Administrator, practical difficulties interfere
with the completion of all repairs required to bring the premises into full
compliance with this code prior to permitting occupancy. However, no
conditional permit shall be issued when there is a condition on the premises
which can threaten the health or safety of an occupant.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-10 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the application does not comply with the requirements of all pertinent
laws, the Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall reject such application
in writing, stating the reasons therefore.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-11 INVALIDITY OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not commenced
within six months after issuance of a permit or if the occupancy is terminated
except that the Building Inspector/Code Administrator is authorized to grant an
extension of time for an additional period not exceeding six months after a
follow-up inspection. The extension shall be requested in writing and
justifiable cause demonstrated.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-12 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Inspector/Code Administrator may revoke a permit in case of any
false statement or misrepresentation of facts in the application on which a
permit was based or in the event a structure or part thereof is condemned
pursuant to this code.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-13 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL OCCUPANCIES.
   The provisions of § 29-1-5 shall not apply to any residential, or rental or
non-rental commercial/industrial occupancy in existence at the time this
chapter takes effect, unless there is a change in the occupancy of any person
after said date, or complaint filed.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord 1548, passed 4-26-2010; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-1-14 UNSCHEDULED INSPECTIONS.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to prevent the Building Inspector/
Code Administrator from performing inspections at unscheduled, random intervals
or spontaneous frequency in furtherance of the implementation of this code,
particularly in the instance of complaints brought to his or her attention, or
in the course of a block or multi-block survey, or in the event of obvious
cause.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
ARTICLE II: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
29-2-1   General
   
29-2-2   Applied meanings of words and terms
§ 29-2-1 GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the terms in §
29-2-2 shall, for the purpose of this code, have the meanings indicated in this
article.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter; the
singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are noted in this code and
are defined in the International Property Maintenance, Building, Plumbing and/
or Mechanical Codes, they shall have the same meanings ascribed to them as in
those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined under the provisions of
this code or under the provisions of the International Property Maintenance,
Building, Plumbing and/or Mechanical Codes, they shall have ascribed to them
their ordinarily accepted meanings or such as the context herein may imply.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-2-2 APPLIED MEANINGS OF WORDS AND TERMS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A building intended for furnishing services for
the elderly or disabled, but not providing the same degree of care as a nursing
home.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three or more persons but not more than ten, who
are not members of the keeper's family.
   BUILDING CODE. The Building Code officially adopted by the legislative body
of this jurisdiction, or such other code as may be officially designed by the
legislative body of the jurisdiction for the regulation of construction,
alteration, addition, repair, removal, demolition, use, location, occupancy and
maintenance of buildings and structures.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR/CODE ADMINISTRATOR. The official who is charged with the
administration and enforcement of this code, or any duly appointed
representative.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the jurisdiction to enforce
building, or similar laws, or a duly authorized representative.
   CENTRAL HEATING. The heating system permanently installed and adjusted so as
to provide the distribution of heat to all habitable rooms, bathrooms and water
closet compartments from a source outside of these rooms.
   CODE OFFICIAL. As used in this code, the Building Inspector/Code
Administrator, or any duly appointed representative.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for use or occupancy.
   CONDEMNATION. The act of judicially condemning.
   DORMITORY. Any building containing 11 or more rooming or dormitory units. A
DORMITORY also provides a public restroom, a laundry room, foyer, storage space
for out-of-season articles of the residents, public lounge and recreational
space for the use of residents.
   DORMITORY ROOM. A habitable room used or intended to be used by two or more
individuals for sleeping or study purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms,
laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets, storage space
and stairwells.
   DUMPSTER. A large roll-off or hoisting-type trash container.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rats or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food, by poison spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other approved pest elimination.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption,
excluding servants, or a group of not more than three, including servants and
roomers, who need not be related by blood, marriage or adoption, living
together and maintaining a common household, but not including sororities,
fraternities or other similar organizations.
   HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations designed for use
by transients, travelers or temporary guests, with no provisions in such
accommodations for cooking in any individual room or suite. Facilities provided
may include maid service, laundering of linen used on the premises,
communications and secretarial or desk service.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit possession or occupancy of a dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit, building or structure by one person who is or
purports to be the owner or agent of same to another person pursuant to a
written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to a recorded or
unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces where
lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not
on a daily, overnight or per-meal basis to transient guests.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE UNIT. A habitable room used or intended to be used
by up to three individuals for sleeping purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet
rooms, laundries, pantries, foyers, communicating corridors, closets, storage
space and stairwells.
   MAINTENANCE. Work that is done regularly to keep a building and its
facilities in good condition and working order.
   MOTEL. A group of attached or detached buildings containing individual
sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by automobile
tourists or transients with garage attached or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including auto courts, motels, motor lodges or other
similar type uses.
   MULTI-FAMILY APARTMENT BUILDING. A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by three or more families living independently of each
other.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. As used in this code, a Certificate of Building
Maintenance and Occupancy.
   ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling unit designed for occupancy by one family,
i.e., a single-family dwelling.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances within the scope of the Plumbing Code.
   PLUMBING FIXTURE. A receptacle or device which is either permanently or
temporarily connected to the water distribution system of the premises, and
demands a supply of water therefrom; or discharges used water, liquid-borne
waste materials or sewage either directly or indirectly to the drainage system
of the premises; or which requires both a water supply connection and a
discharge to the drainage system of the premises.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Includes the following:
      (1)   The physical condition or use of any premises regarded as a public
nuisance at common law;
      (2)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any premises or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including but not
limited to abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe fences or
structures;
      (3)   Any premises which have unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities;
      (4)   Any premises designated as unsafe for human habitation or use;
      (5)   Any premises which are manifestly capable of being a fire hazard or
are manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property;
      (6)   Any premises from which the plumbing, heating and/or facilities
required by this code have been removed, or from which utilities have been
disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective or the required
precautions against trespassers have not been provided;
      (7)   Any premises which are unsanitary or which are littered with
rubbish or garbage, or which have an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
      (8)   Any structure or building that is in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; faulty construction; over-crowded; open, vacant or
abandoned; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, in danger
of collapse or failure, and is dangerous to anyone on or near the premises.
      (9)   The existence of a structure or building that has been used for the
storage or manufacture of methamphetamine, until the abatement and cleaning
practices required in §
25-1-5 have been complied with.
   RENOVATION. A building and its facilities made to conform to present-day
minimum standards of sanitation, fire prevention and safety.
   RESIDENCE BUILDING. A building in which sleeping accommodations or sleeping
accommodations and cooking facilities as a unit are provided, except when
classified as an institution under the Building Code.
   SANITARY. Rules and conditions of health, especially of absence of dirt and
agents of infection or tending to promote health and healthful conditions.
   SUPPLIED. Installed, furnished or provided by the owner or operator.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing two separate dwelling units.
   WORKING DAYS. Those days during which the City Hall is open for business.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1685,
passed 6-22-2015; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
ARTICLE III: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
29-3-1   Duties and powers of Building Inspector/Code Administrator
   
29-3-2   Right of entry
§ 29-3-1 DUTIES AND POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR/CODE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Enforcement. The Building Inspector/Code Administrator, or other
designee, shall enforce all provisions of this code relative to the maintenance
of structures and premises, except as may otherwise be specifically provided
for by other regulations.
   (B)   Appointment. The Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The
Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor
and City Council. The position of Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall
be a salaried position exempt from the requirements of wages and hours laws. In
addition, it shall not be covered by any collective bargaining agreement.
   (C)   Notices and orders. The Building Inspector/Code Administrator shall
issue all necessary written notices and orders to abate illegal or unsafe
conditions to ensure compliance with the code requirements for the safety,
health and general welfare of the public.
   (D)   Coordination of enforcement. Inspection of premises, the issuance of
written notices and orders and enforcement thereof shall be the responsibility
of the Building Inspector/Code Administrator so charged by the city. Whenever,
in the opinion of a Building Inspector/Code Administrator initiating an
inspection under this code, it is deemed necessary or desirable to have
inspections by any other department, the Building Inspector/Code Administrator
shall make reasonable effort to arrange for the coordination of such
inspections so as to minimize the number of visits by inspectors and to confer
with the other departments for the purpose of eliminating conflicting orders
before any are issued. A department shall not, however, delay the issuance of
any emergency order which it determines must be ordered.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 29-3-2 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Authorization. The Building Inspector/Code Administrator is authorized
to enter the structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to
constitutional restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. Where no
consent to enter or inspect any property has been given by the owner, occupant,
or other person in charge of a structure subject to the provisions of this
code, no entry or inspection shall be made without procurement of a warrant
from the Circuit Court of Monroe County. The Court may consider any of the
following factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its
decision as to whether a warrant shall issue:
      (1)   Eye witness account of violation.
      (2)   Citizen's complaint.
      (3)   Tenant complaint.
   (B)   Credentials. The Building Inspector/Code Administrator or the Building
Inspector/Code Administrator's authorized representative shall disclose proper
credentials of their respective office for the purpose of inspecting any and
all buildings and premises in the performance of duties under this code.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024)
ARTICLE IV: PREMISES CONDITIONS
Section
   
29-4-1   Personalty
§ 29-4-1 PERSONALTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain, keep or store any unsheltered, old, or unused objects or equipment,
including but not limited to, stripped or junked automobiles, vehicles,
machinery, lawn mowers, air conditioners, refrigerators, furniture, stoves,
freezers, cans, water heaters or other containers, old lumber and/or personal
property of any kind that is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which
it was manufactured, for a period of 14 days, except in a licensed junk yard
within the corporate limits of this city, and such is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and dangerous to the public safety.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1524, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
ARTICLE V: FIRE SAFETY REGULATIONS
Section
   
29-5-1   Lock box entry systems
§ 29-5-1 LOCK BOX ENTRY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a building or structure required to have the
key lock box entry system shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that
will allow for access to the building or structure.
   (B)   The Fire Chief of the Waterloo Community Fire Protection District
shall be notified of every change of locks on a building or structure required
to have a key lock box entry system. The Fire Chief and Building Inspector/Code
Administrator shall jointly inspect the lock box to ensure that the lock box
key fits the new lock on the building or structure.
(Ord. 1492, passed 9-15-2008; Am. Ord. 1889, passed 4-1-2024) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
ARTICLE VI: TEMPORARY DUMPSTERS
Section
   
29-6-1   Temporary dumpsters
§ 29-6-1 TEMPORARY DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Dumpsters may be placed on private property only by permit. The
permits shall be issued by the Building Inspector/Code Administrator and shall
not require a fee.
   (B)   The dumpster shall be placed in a location approved by the Building
Inspector/Code Administrator. The dumpster may not be placed on an easement.
   (C)   The duration of the permit shall be as follows, unless renewed by the
Building Inspector/ Code Administrator:
      (1)   Fourteen days for general cleanup, new roofs and similar activities
on private property.
      (2)   Fourteen days for general cleanup, new roofs and similar activities
on a public street or alley.
      (3)   Thirty days for new construction on a public street or alley.
      (4)   Forty-five days for remodeling, additions and similar activities on
private property.
      (5)   Eight months for new construction on private property.
      (6)   As determined by the Building Inspector/Code Administrator for
projects other than the above.
   (D)   The fee for the dumpster permit shall be as stated in
Chapter 12 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 1524, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1759, passed 7-16-2018; Am. Ord. 1889,
passed 4-1-2024)
CHAPTER 30: PUBLIC SAFETY
ARTICLE I: CIVIL EMERGENCY
Section
   
30-1-1   Definitions
   
30-1-2   Declaration of emergency
   
30-1-3   Curfew
   
30-1-4   Authority of Mayor to issue orders
   
30-1-5   Effectiveness
   
30-1-6   Notification
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-6
§ 30-1-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL EMERGENCY. Is hereby defined to be:
      (1)   A “riot or unlawful assembly” characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any power to execute by three or more persons acting
together without authority of law; or
      (2)   Any “natural disaster” or “man-made calamity” including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   CURFEW. A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city, excepting officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
the civil emergency.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-1)
§ 30-1-2 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY. 
   Whenever an emergency as defined in §
30-1-1 exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of a written
declaration, setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-2)
§ 30-1-3 CURFEW.
   After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city or to the city as a
whole as he deems advisable and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-3)
§ 30-1-4 AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO ISSUE ORDERS.
   After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other flammable liquid or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-4)
§ 30-1-5 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of 48
hours, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the Mayor indicating that
the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor shall have the power to re-
proclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each 48-hour period
during the time the civil emergency exists.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-5)
§ 30-1-6 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Mayor shall notify the
news media situated within the city and shall cause three copies of the
proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the
following places within the city:
   (A)   The City Hall;
   (B)   The Post Office; and
   (C)   The County Courthouse.
(1993 Code, § 30-1-6)
ARTICLE II: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
30-2-1   Department established
   
30-2-2   Duties of Chief of Police
   
30-2-3   Deputy Chief of Police
   
30-2-4   Duties of Deputy Chief of Police
   
30-2-5   Compensation
   
30-2-6   Duties
   
30-2-7   Assistance to other municipalities
   
30-2-8   Auxiliary police officers
   
30-2-9   Part-time police officers
   
30-2-10   Aiding Fire Department
   
30-2-11   Failure to perform
   
30-2-12   Aiding in escape
   
30-2-13   Use of intoxicating liquor
   
30-2-14   Witness fees
   
30-2-15   Rules and regulations
   
30-2-16   Stolen property, custody of
   
30-2-17   Compensation for auxiliary and part-time police officers
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-2
§ 30-2-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department shall
consist of a Chief of Police, Deputy Chief of Police, and such number of
policemen and/or policewomen, hereinafter collectively referred to as “police
officers”, as may be provided from time to time by the City Council. A rank
structure shall be established for the Police Department by the City Council,
and the various members of the Police Department shall hold such rank as may be
designated by the appropriate appointing authority; however, the Chief of
Police shall hold the highest rank, and the Deputy Chief of Police shall hold
the second highest rank held by any member of the Police Department from time
to time.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-1) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-2 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall keep records and make reports concerning the
activities of the Police Department as may be required. The Chief of Police
shall be responsible for the performance of the Police Department and all of
the police officers. All persons who are members of the Police Department shall
serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-2) (Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-3 DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   There is hereby created the office of Deputy Chief of Police. The Deputy
Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Chief of Police. The Deputy Chief of
Police position shall be an exempt rank immediately below that of Chief of
Police. The Deputy Chief of Police may be appointed from any rank of sworn,
full-time officers of the city's Police Department, but must have at least five
years of full-time service as police officer in the Police Department. A Deputy
Chief of Police shall serve at the discretion of the Chief of Police and, if
removed from the position of Deputy Chief of Police, shall revert to the rank
held immediately prior to appointment to the Deputy Chief of Police position
even in the event that there is not an open position in that rank per §
30-5-1 of the city's Municipal Code.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-3) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999; Am. Ord. 1434, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 30-2-4 DUTIES OF DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Deputy Chief of Police shall assist the Chief of Police in the discharge
of his or her duties as the Chief of Police may direct and shall perform such
other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Chief of
Police of the city. In the absence of the Chief of Police, or in the event of
his or her inability or refusal to act, the Deputy Chief of Police shall
perform the duties of the Chief of Police, and when so acting, he or she shall
have the powers of and be charged with all the responsibilities of the Chief of
Police.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-4) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-5 COMPENSATION.
   Police officers shall receive such compensation as may be provided by the
annual budget of the city or by other action of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-5) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-6 DUTIES.
   (A)   The duties and powers of a police officer shall include the following:
      (1)   He or she shall devote his or her entire time to the performance of
the duties of his or her office;
      (2)   He or she shall be a conservator of the peace;
      (3)   He or she shall have the power:
         (a)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
         (b)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
         (c)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or
on Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
court;
         (d)   To exercise all other powers as a conservator of the peace
prescribed by the city authorities;
         (e)   To direct traffic, remove abandoned vehicles from highways and
enforce statutory provisions as to weight restrictions on vehicles.
   (B)   Each police officer may serve and execute within the limits of the
city all warrants for the violation of city ordinances or the state criminal
law, directed to any person, and for this purpose each police officer shall
have all the common law and statutory powers of sheriffs.
   (C)   A police officer shall attend, when requested by the Mayor, all
meetings of the City Council, execute all its orders and close the Council
Chamber upon the adjournment of that body.
   (D)   Each police officer shall perform such other duties as may be
authorized by city ordinance or state statute.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-6) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-7 ASSISTANCE TO OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   The Police Department shall furnish police assistance on request to other
municipalities with which the City Council has entered into agreements for such
purpose.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-7) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-8 AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, may
appoint auxiliary police officers.
   (B)   Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of the regular Police
Department of the city. Auxiliary police officers shall not supplement members
of the regular Police Department of the city in the performance of their
assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided in this article.
Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the city: (1) to aid or direct traffic within the city; (2) to aid in
control of natural or man made disasters; and (3) to aid in case of civil
disorder as directed by the Chief of Police. When it is impractical for members
of the regular Police Department to perform those normal and regular police
duties, however, the Chief of Police of the regular Police Department may
assign auxiliary police officers to perform those normal and regular police
duties. Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by members of the regular Police
Department. Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the performance
of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police
of the city. Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with
the permission of the Chief of Police and while in uniform and in the
performance of their duties. Auxiliary police officers, when on duty, shall
also be conservators of the peace and shall have the powers specified in §
30-2-6.
   (C)   Auxiliary police officers, before entering upon any of their duties,
shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons and other police
procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers conferred upon them under
this article. The training and course of study shall be determined and provided
by the City Council. The same residency requirements for regular police
officers shall apply to auxiliary police officers. Before appointment of an
auxiliary policeman, the person's fingerprints shall be taken, and no person
shall be appointed as an auxiliary policeman if that person has been convicted
of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-8) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-9 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The city may appoint, discipline and discharge part-time police
officers who shall be regular members of the Police Department, except for
pension purposes. Part-time police officers shall not be assigned under any
circumstances to supervise or direct full-time police officers of the Police
Department. Part- time police officers shall not be used as permanent
replacement for permanent full-time police officers. The aforementioned
appointment, discipline and discharge shall be in accordance with ILCS Ch. 65,
Act 5, § 3.1-30-21.
   (B)   Hiring standards. All part-time police officers shall meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Be currently certified as an Illinois Police Officer.
      (2)   Have completed the Illinois Police Academy.
      (3)   Have five years full-time experience as a police officer, but this
requirement can be waived by the Chief of Police with the approval of the
Mayor.
      (4)   Submit to the same comprehensive background investigation as a
full-time officer.
      (5)   Submit to the same psychological and physical examination as a
full-time officer.
      (6)   Pass the same drug screen as submitted to by a full-time officer.
(Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999; Am. Ord. 1730,
passed 7-3-2017)
§ 30-2-10 AIDING FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   Every police officer shall aid the Fire Department by giving the alarm in
case of fire and in clearing the streets or grounds in the immediate vicinity
of any fire so that fire fighters shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-11) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-11 FAILURE TO PERFORM.
   Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform
any duty required of him or her by the rules and regulations of the Police
Department, ordinances of the city or statutes of the State of Illinois, or who
shall be, in the discharge of his or her official duties, guilty of any fraud,
favoritism, extortion, oppression or willful wrong or injustice, shall be
subject to removal from office.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-12) (Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-12 AIDING IN ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in this city to resist or obstruct any
member of the Police Department in the discharge of his or her duty or to
endeavor to assist any person in the custody of any member of the Police
Department to escape or to attempt to escape from such custody or to attempt to
rescue any such person in such custody.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-13) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-13 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR.
   No member of the Police Department, while on duty or while in uniform of the
Police Department, shall indulge in the use of any intoxicating beverages or be
intoxicated. Any violation of this section shall be sufficient cause for
removal from office.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-14) (Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-14 WITNESS FEES.
   All members of the Police Department shall appear as witnesses whenever
requested by appropriate authority with respect to the prosecution of a
violation of an ordinance or of any state or federal law. No such member shall
retain any witness fee for service as witness in any action or suit with
respect to which the city has an interest, and any fees paid for such service
shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit the same with
the Treasurer of the city.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-15) (Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-15 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
conduct and guidance of the members of the Police Department as he or she shall
deem advisable, and such rules, when approved by the Mayor, shall be binding on
such members.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-16) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-16 STOLEN PROPERTY, CUSTODY OF.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or
stolen property in the city.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-17) (Am. Ord. 979, passed 11-20-1995; Am. Ord. 1116, passed
10-18-1999)
§ 30-2-17 COMPENSATION FOR AUXILIARY AND PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   Auxiliary police officers and part-time police officers shall receive such
compensation for their services as may be fixed by the City Council from time
to time.
(1993 Code, § 30-2-19) (Am. Ord. 1116, passed 10-18-1999)
ARTICLE III: (RESERVED)
ARTICLE IV: EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
Section
   
30-4-1   Establishment
   
30-4-2   Coordinator
   
30-4-3   Functions
   
30-4-4   Service as mobile support team
   
30-4-5   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
30-4-6   Emergency action
   
30-4-7   Compensation
   
30-4-8   Reimbursement by state
   
30-4-9   Purchases and expenditures
   
30-4-10   Oath
   
30-4-11   Office
   
30-4-12   Appropriation; levy of taxes
   
30-4-13   Adoption of county plan
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.
§ 30-4-1 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the City Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
(ESDA), to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action or from
natural or man-made disaster, in accordance with “The Emergency Management Act,
being 20 ILCS 3305” and any amendments thereto. This ESDA shall consist of the
Coordinator and such additional members as may be selected by the Coordinator.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-1) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-2 COORDINATOR. 
   The Coordinator of the City ESDA shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council and shall serve until removed by same.
The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to the direction
and control of the Mayor, as provided by statute. In the event of the absence,
resignation, death or inability to serve as the Coordinator, the Mayor or any
person designated by him, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this code.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-2) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-3 FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the city as shall be
prescribed in and by the State ESDA Plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor,
and in addition shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be required pursuant to any Mutual Aid Agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as provided in the
Emergency Management Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 and any amendments thereto.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-3) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-4 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM. 
   All or any members of the ESDA organization may be designated as members of
a Mobile Support Team created by the Director of the State ESDA, as provided by
law. The leader of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the
Coordinator of the ESDA organization. Any member of a Mobile Support Team who
is a city employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or
the State Director shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties,
rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member
who is not a paid officer or employee of the city, while so serving, shall
receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-4) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-5 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. 
   The Coordinator of the ESDA may negotiate Mutual Aid Agreements with other
cities or political subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be
effective until it has been approved by the Mayor.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-5) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-6 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of Illinois of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile
action or from man-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the ESDA
to cooperate fully with the State ESDA and with the Governor in the exercise of
emergency powers as provided by law.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-6) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-7 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the ESDA who are paid city employees or officers, if called for
training by the State Director of ESDA, shall receive for the time spent in
such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the position held. Members
who are not such city employees or officers shall receive for such training
such compensation as may be established by the Mayor.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-7) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-8 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The City Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the city for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA as prescribed by the State Director of ESDA, compensation
for services and expenses of members of a Mobile Support Team while serving
outside the city in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of
ESDA, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state
incident to ESDA activities as provided by law.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-8) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-9 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Mayor may, upon recommendation of the City Coordinator of ESDA,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the city in a position
to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear
or other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such
disaster or from man-made or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disaster, the City Coordinator
of ESDA is authorized on behalf of the city to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or materials as may be necessary for such purposes in view of the
exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to city contracts or obligations, as authorized by
the Emergency Management Act, being 20 ILCS 3305 and amendments thereto,
provided that if the Mayor meets at such time, he or she shall act subject to
the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-9) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-10 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the City ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
“I,                                                      ,
do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true
faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States of America, and
the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the territory, institutions and
facilities thereof, both public and private, against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or
purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties
upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do
not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of any political party or
organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this State by force or violence; and that during such time as I am
affiliated with the ESDA organization, I will not advocate, nor become a member
of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this State by force or violence.”
(1993 Code, § 30-4-10) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-11 OFFICE. 
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a city building or elsewhere
as may be provided for by the Mayor for the City ESDA as its office.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-11) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-12 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Mayor may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in the manner provided
by law and may levy in addition, for ESDA purposes only, a tax not to exceed
$0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property, in addition to
all other taxes, as provided by the Emergency Management Act, being 20 ILCS
3305 and amendments thereto; however, that amount collectible under such levy
shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita.
(1993 Code, § 30-4-12) (Ord. 562, passed 7-19-1976)
§ 30-4-13 ADOPTION OF COUNTY PLAN.
   The city hereby adopts the Monroe County, Illinois, "Emergency Management
Operations Plan 2021", and as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1828, passed 7-6-2021)
ARTICLE V: POLICE DEPARTMENT RANK STRUCTURE
Section
   
30-5-1   Police Department rank structure
§ 30-5-1 POLICE DEPARTMENT RANK STRUCTURE.
   The rank structure of the Police Department shall be as follows:
Position Rank
Position                     Rank
(A)   Chief of Police     Colonel
(B)   Deputy Chief of PoliCaptain
(C)   Supervisor          Lieutenant
(D)   Supervisor          Sergeant
(E)   Supervisor          Sergeant
(F)   Supervisor          Sergeant
(G)   Supervisor          Sergeant
(H)   Remaining positions Patrol officer
 
(Ord. 1120, passed 12-6-1999; Am. Ord. 1170, passed 1-22-2001; Am. Ord. 1221,
passed 3-25-2002; Am. Ord. 1852, passed 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 33: STREET REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED
Section
   
33-1-1   Department established
   
33-1-2   Committee established
§ 33-1-1 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a department of the municipal government which
shall be known as the Street Department. It shall embrace the Street Committee,
the Public Works Director and the employees.
(1993 Code, § 33-1-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
§ 33-1-2 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Streets shall monitor the
implementation of Council policy by the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall ascertain the needs and conditions thereof and shall,
from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(1993 Code, § 33-1-2) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
ARTICLE II: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
33-2-1   Undermining
   
33-2-2   Open doors
   
33-2-3   Vaults
   
33-2-4   Stairway; railing
   
33-2-5   Closing street
   
33-2-6   Signs across street
   
33-2-7   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
33-2-8   Deposits on sidewalks
   
33-2-9   Obstructing street
   
33-2-10   Water from eaves or sump pumps
   
33-2-11   Building materials in street
   
33-2-12   Merchandise on public street
   
33-2-13   Encroachments
   
33-2-14   Posting bills
   
33-2-15   Signs on poles
   
33-2-16   Injury to new pavements
   
33-2-17   Fences
   
33-2-18   Temporary dumpsters on streets
§ 33-2-1 UNDERMINING. 
   No person shall undermine in any manner any street or any other ground or
real estate situated in the city or to any private person.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-2 OPEN DOORS.
   No person shall open or allow to remain open any door or the grating of any
vault belonging to the premises occupied by him or her on any street, alley or
sidewalk in the city for any purpose, except the taking in and removing of
goods, and any person allowing such grating to remain open shall warn passers-
by of the danger.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-2) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-3 VAULTS.
   No person shall dig or cause to be dug, in any street or sidewalk, any
vault, without covering the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent
persons, animals and vehicles from falling into the excavation. Such vault
shall be in conformance with other code provisions.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-3) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-4 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   Steps or stairways leading into any building shall not extend from the wall
of such building onto any pavement or sidewalk, and in such case the person
making or causing to be made such passage shall erect a railing on the side of
the stairs toward the street to prevent persons from falling into the street.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-4) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-5 CLOSING STREET.
   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street, alley or
public place requires it, the Mayor and/or the Director of Public Works, may
order any street, alley or public place temporarily closed to traffic, the
placing of signs indicating that the street, alley or public place is closed;
and the notification of the Monroe County Dispatcher. Whenever such signs are
so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon or cross such street, alley or
public place, or in any manner, destroy, deface or remove any such sign.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-5) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-6 SIGNS ACROSS STREET.
   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner over any or across
any street or alley in the city unless he or she has written approval of the
City Council.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-6) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-1-7
§ 33-2-7 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS. 
   No person shall operate any bicycle or vehicle over any sidewalk, except in
crossing the same to go into a yard or parking lot.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-7) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-8 DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, glass or
other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or property.
   (B)   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery, provided that the usable width is not thereby reduced
to less than four feet, and provided that no such article shall remain on such
walk for more than 30 minutes.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-8) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-9 OBSTRUCTING STREET.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the city any debris,
materials or obstructions without the written consent of the Zoning
Administrator, except as permitted by this code, and providing further that
permanent walkways from the street to the adjacent property shall not be
considered obstructions for purposes of this section.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police to exercise a vigilant supervision
over such places and to notify any person found making such deposit or
responsible for same to remove the offending matter at once.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-9) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988; Am. Ord. 1599, passed 2-27-2012; Am. Ord. 1600, passed 3-26-2012)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-10 WATER FROM EAVES OR SUMP PUMPS.
   No person owning or occupying any building in the city shall cause pipes
conducting the water from the eaves of a building to be so constructed as to
spread the water over the sidewalk or allow water from a pump of any kind to
spread over the sidewalk, by any means.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-10) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 714, passed 6-8-
1985; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1588, passed 10-24-2011)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-11 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   The Public Works Director may move any obstruction on any street or sidewalk
of the city. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or improving
any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous to such
length of time as may be necessary for the work. The obstruction shall not
extend to more than one-half of the width of the sidewalk, street or alley
adjacent to such improvement, and the gutter shall always be left free and
unobstructed. At night, such person shall keep an illuminated warning light on
such material.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-11) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-12 MERCHANDISE ON PUBLIC STREET.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to use any street,
sidewalk or other public place as space for the display of goods or merchandise
for sale, food or alcoholic liquor, or to write or make any signs or
advertisements on any such pavements, unless permission is granted by the
Zoning Administrator.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-12) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988; Am. Ord. 1599, passed 2-27-2012; Am. Ord. 1600, passed 3-26-2012)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-13 ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-13) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-14 POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to paste, paint, print or nail any
handbill, sign, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on any curbstone,
flagstone or any other portion or part of any sidewalk, or upon any tree,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, or upon any private wall, door or gate without
the consent, in writing, of the owner of such curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk,
tree, lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, private wall, door or gate.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-14) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-15 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, painted or fastened any sign or any other foreign substance or material
onto any telephone, telegraph, electric light, police and/or fire alarm pole or
post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk, street, alley or
public grounds, or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-15) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-16 INJURY TO NEW PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon or
destroy any newly-laid sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded by a warning
sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft, newly-laid pavement.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-16) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-2-17 FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or
in part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury
to a person, or any wire charged with electric current anywhere within 50 feet
of any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place,
unless such barbs or charged wire are at least six feet above the level of such
public place.
(1993 Code, § 33-2-17) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
Cross-reference:
   See Fences, walls and hedges, §
40-4-3
§ 33-2-18 TEMPORARY DUMPSTERS ON STREETS.
   (A)   Dumpsters may be placed on a public street or alley only with the
permission of the Director of Public Works and a permit issued by the Building
Inspector/Code Administrator.
   (B)   Barricades must be placed at both ends of the dumpster.
   (C)   No street, alley or fire hydrant may be blocked to vehicular traffic
by the dumpster.
   (D)   The duration of the permit shall be as follows, unless renewed by the
Building Inspector/ Code Administrator:
      (1)   Fourteen days for general clean-up, new roofs and similar
activities.
      (2)   Ninety days for remodeling, additions and similar activities.
      (3)   Eight months for new construction.
      (4)   As determined by the Building Inspector/Code Administrator for
projects other than the above.
   (E)   The fee for the dumpster permit shall be as stated in
Chapter 12, Fees.
(Ord. 1525, passed 9-8-2009)
ARTICLE III: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
33-3-1   Planting
   
33-3-2   Unlawful to plant trees and shrubbery
   
33-3-3   Removal
   
33-3-4   Injury
   
33-3-5   Advertisements or notices
   
33-3-6   Dangerous trees
   
33-3-7   Wires
   
33-3-8   Gas pipes
§ 33-3-1 PLANTING.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public street or
parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be
referred by him or her to the City Council. All trees and shrubs so planted
shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of the City Council.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-2 UNLAWFUL TO PLANT TREES AND SHRUBBERY. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm or corporation to plant
or cause to be planted in any parkway within the city any tree or shrub less
than three feet from the outer line of the sidewalk. No tree shall be planted
in parkways or streets at a distance less than 25 feet from any cross or
intersecting street or alley.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-2) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-3 REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub or portion
thereof in any street, parkway or other public place without having first
secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the
City Clerk and shall be referred by him or her to the City Council before
permission shall be granted.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-3) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-4 INJURY. 
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in such public
place as set forth in §
33-3-3.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-4) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-5 ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree
or shrub in any street, parkway or other public place.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-5) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-6 DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other public
place in the municipality at a height less than eight feet, or in such a way as
to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such public place shall be
trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the premises on which such
tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
   (B)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
   (C)   The Public Works Director may, at the owner's expense, trim or remove
any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or passage shall
be done away with.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-6) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-7 WIRES. 
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or shrub
in any public street, parkway or other public place without the permission of
the City Council.
   (B)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and wires
in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall, in the
absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires
and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so far as
may be possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly trimmed,
subject to the supervision of the Public Works Director, so that no injury
shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by their
conduct.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-7) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-3-8 GAS PIPES. 
   Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the municipality shall, in
the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or shrubs.
(1993 Code, § 33-3-8) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE IV: EXCAVATIONS AND UNDERGROUND DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
33-4-1   Definition
   
33-4-2   Permit required
   
33-4-3   Applications
   
33-4-4   Fees
   
33-4-5   Performance guarantee
   
33-4-6   Liability insurance
   
33-4-7   Precedent requirements
   
33-4-8   Inspections
   
33-4-9   Relocation and protection of utilities
   
33-4-10   Protection of adjoining property
   
33-4-11   Preservation of monuments
   
33-4-12   Clearance for vital structures
   
33-4-13   Protective measures
   
33-4-14   Sidewalks
   
33-4-15   Protection and routing of traffic
   
33-4-16   Manner of excavating
   
33-4-17   Breaking through pavement
   
33-4-18   Placement of excavation material
   
33-4-19   Noise, dust and debris
   
33-4-20   Backfilling
   
33-4-21   Clean-up
   
33-4-22   Surface restoration
   
33-4-23   Abandonment of substructures
   
33-4-24   Conditions and restrictions
   
33-4-25   Urgent work
   
33-4-26   Emergency action
   
33-4-27   Location records
§ 33-4-1 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this article, EXCAVATION shall be defined as work,
excavations, drilling, boring, construction, demolition or surface removal or
penetration in any manner of city-owned property, streets, alleys, easements,
or public lands within the corporate limits.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-2 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to do any work,
excavation, drilling, boring, construction or demolition in any street, alley
or public place in the city without having obtained a permit as is herein
required, or without complying with the provisions of this article, or in
violation of or variance from the terms of any such permit.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-3 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits as set forth in §
33-4-2 shall be initiated with the Zoning Administrator, and shall describe the
location of the intended work, construction, demolition, excavation, type of
work, equipment to be used, the size thereof, the purpose therefore, and the
person, firm or corporation for whom or which the work is being done, and shall
contain an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances and
laws relating to the work to be done. The permit may be issued only with the
approval of the Director of Public Works.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-2) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-4 FEES.
   The fee for permits as set forth in §
33-4-2 shall be imposed as listed in Chapter 12. Only the City Council may
waive the fees in this section.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-3) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999; Am. Ord.
1477, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 33-4-5 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   No permit for any work, construction, demolition or excavation on
city-owned property shall be issued by the city unless the person applying
therefor or the contractor shall have filed with the Zoning Administrator a
performance guarantee. Said guarantee shall be a minimum of $1,000. When, in
the opinion of the Public Works Director, the excavation is sufficiently
hazardous to require a higher guarantee, a maximum of $10,000 is therefore
required. Said guarantee shall be in the form of cash, letter of credit from a
bank doing business in the State of Illinois, or certificate of deposit. If, in
the opinion of the Public Works Director, an excavation requires a performance
guarantee more than $10,000, it first must be approved by the City Council
before a permit can be issued.
   (B)   Said performance guarantee shall be received by the Zoning
Administrator, conditioned upon the applicant or contractors completing the
excavation, drilling, boring, construction or excavation in a proper and
workmanlike manner and indemnifying and saving the city harmless for any and
all damage to any property of the applicant or to the property of the city or
the property of any third party from failure to restore any road, ditch,
easement, pavement or portion thereof damaged during the construction,
demolition or excavation so as to ensure that such property of the city or such
property of the applicant, together with such road, ditch, easement, pavement
or portion thereof damaged are left in as good condition as the applicant or
contractor found them. Only the City Council may waive the performance
guarantee.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-4) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-6 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   No permit for excavation, drilling, boring, construction or demolition shall
be issued by the city or its authorized representatives unless the person
applying therefor or the contractor shall have first procured insurance which
meets the minimum insurance requirements outlined below. When in the opinion of
the Mayor, Director of Public Works or the Budget Director, the service being
provided is sufficiently hazardous to require higher requirements, they may
require higher limits and/or requirements than those indicated as follows:
Applicants shall furnish the city with certificates of insurance that verify
the contractor has insurance that meets the following minimum requirements and
names the city as an additional insured:
   (A)   Workers' Compensation   Statutory
   (B)   Employers Liability   $1,000,000
   (C)   General Liability:
      (1)   Per occurrence   $1,000,000
      (2)   General aggregate   $3,000,000
   (D)   Auto Liability   $1,000,000
(1993 Code, § 33-4-5) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999; Am. Ord.
1477, passed 6-2-2008)
§ 33-4-7 PRECEDENT REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the filing of the application and the furnishing of a
performance guarantee and insurance, the applicant shall have followed all
rules of the JULIE System and Illinois law and shall have accomplished all of
the following to the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his or her
authorized representative before the permit is approved by the Director and
before proceeding with the actual work:
   (A)   Submit a dimensional drawing to be attached to the permit, showing the
location and details of the proposed work horizontally and vertically.
   (B)   Manually excavate and expose every buried facility to be crossed or
within ten feet horizontally of the proposed route of the work. Notify the
Director of Public Works after the exposures and 24 hours (weekday) before the
permit may be approved before the work may begin.
   (C)   Where Horizontal Directional Drilling (HDD) is used, a tracking device
must be used to continually identify the horizontal and vertical location of
the drilling head.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-8 INSPECTIONS.
   The Public Works Director shall, from time to time, inspect or cause to be
inspected, all excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public
street, alley or other place in the city to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this code. The Public Works Director shall have the authority to
promulgate and cause to be enforced such rules and regulations as may be
reasonably necessary to enforce and carry out the intent of this article.
Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten business day hours before the
work of refilling any such tunnel or excavation commences.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-29) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-9 RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   The applicant will be responsible for determining the location of and
protecting all buried facilities, and will be responsible for the cost of
repair or replacement of any such facilities damaged as a result of the work
covered herein.
    (B)   The permittee shall not interfere with any existing facility without
the written consent of the Public Works Director and the owner of the facility.
If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing facility, this shall be done by
its owner. The facility owned by the city shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee if such work is borne by the permittee. The cost of moving privately-
owned facilities shall be similarly borne by the permittee unless other
arrangements are made with the person owning the facility. The permittee shall
support and protect, by timbers or otherwise, all pipes, conduits, poles, wires
or other apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and
the permittee shall do everything necessary to support, sustain and protect
them under, over, along or across said work. The permittee shall secure
approval of method of support and protection from the owner of the facility.
   (C)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables or conduits in the making
of such excavations or tunnels, and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables or conduits or to the city department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables or conduits shall be disturbed. In case any of said pipes, conduits,
poles, wires or apparatus should be damaged, and for this purpose, pipe coating
or other encasement or devices are to be considered as part of a substructure,
the permittee shall promptly notify the owner thereof. All damaged facilities
shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them and the expense of such
repairs shall be charged to the permittee. It is the intent of this section
that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to facilities, and any
resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such facility damage, and such
assumption of liability is a contractual obligation of the permittee. The only
exception will be such instances where damage is exclusively due to the
negligence of the owning utility. The city shall not be made a party to any
action because of this section. The permittee shall inform itself as to the
existence and location of all underground facilities and protect the same
against damage. No installation may be made nearer than 24 inches to a natural
gas main, service, valve or other component.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-14) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-10 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permittee shall, at all times, and at his or its own expense,
preserve and protect from injury any adjoining property by providing proper
foundations and taking other measures suitable for the purpose. Where, in the
protection of such property it is necessary to enter upon private property for
the purpose of taking appropriate protective measures, the permittee shall
obtain consent from the owner of such private property for such purpose, and if
he cannot obtain such consent, the Public Works Director may authorize him to
enter the private premises solely for the purpose of making the property safe.
   (B)   At the permittee's own expense, all buildings, walls, fences, or other
property likely to be damaged during the progress of the excavation work shall
be shored up and protected, and the permittee shall be responsible for all
damages to public or private property or highways resulting from failure to
property protect and carry out the work. The applicant shall not trim, cut or
in any way disturb any trees, shrubbery, or the roots thereof along the city
street, roadway or within easements without the approval of the Director of
Public Works or his or her duly authorized agent.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-16) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-11 PRESERVATION OF MONUMENTS.
   Any monument set for the purpose of locating or preserving the lines of any
street or property subdivision, or a precise survey reference point, or a
permanent survey bench mark within the city shall not be removed or disturbed
or caused to be removed or disturbed without first obtaining permission in
writing from the City Council to do so. Permission to remove or disturb such
monuments, reference points or bench marks shall only be granted upon condition
that the person applying for such permission shall pay all expenses incident to
the proper replacement of the monument by the city.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-28) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-12 CLEARANCE FOR VITAL STRUCTURES.
   The excavation work shall be performed and conducted so as not to interfere
with access to fire hydrants, fire stations, fire escapes, water gates,
underground vaults, valve housing structures, and all other vital equipment as
designated by the Public Works Director.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-12) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-13 PROTECTIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person cutting or making an excavation
in or upon any public place to place and maintain barriers and warning devices
necessary for the safety of the general public, and to at all times conduct the
work in such a manner as to minimize hazards to the public, to adjacent
buildings, to all buried facilities as well as vehicular and pedestrian
traffic. All signs, barricades, flaggers, and the like required for traffic
control and public safety shall be furnished by the applicant.
   (B)   Barriers, warning signs and lights shall conform to the requirements
of all applicable provisions of this code. Warning lights shall be electrical
markers or flashers used to indicate a hazard to traffic from sunset of each
day to sunrise of the next day.
   (C)   Electrical markers or flashers shall emit light at sufficient
intensity and frequency to be visible at a reasonable distance for safety.
Reflectors or reflecting material may be used to supplement, but not to replace
light sources.
   (D)   Warning signs shall be placed far enough in advance of the
construction operation to alert traffic within a public street, and cones or
other approved devices shall be placed to channel traffic in accordance with
the instructions of the Public Works Director.
   (E)   If any excavation is made across any public street, alley or sidewalk,
adequate crossings shall be maintained for vehicles and for pedestrians.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-11) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-14 SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided, which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users. If the street is not wide enough to hold the excavated material without
using part of the adjacent sidewalk, a passageway of at least one-half of the
sidewalk width shall be maintained along such sidewalk line. The temporary
sidewalk is subject to inspection by the Public Works Director and shall not be
open for use until approved by him or his duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-15 PROTECTION AND ROUTING OF TRAFFIC.
   (A)   The permittee shall maintain safe crossings for two lanes of vehicle
traffic at all street intersections where possible, and safe crossings for
pedestrians at intervals of not more than 300 feet. The contractor is also
restricted to open-cutting half the roadway surface at any one time.
   (B)   The permittee shall take appropriate measures to assure that during
the performance of the excavation work, traffic conditions as nearly normal as
possible shall be maintained at all times so as to minimize inconvenience to
the occupants of the adjoining property and to the general public. When traffic
conditions permit, the Mayor and/or the Public Works Director may, by written
approval, permit the closing of streets and alleys to all traffic for a period
of time prescribed by him if, in his opinion, it is necessary. Such written
approval may require that the permittee give notification to various public
agencies and to the general public. In such cases, such written approval shall
not be valid until such notice is given.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-11)
§ 33-4-16 MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation or tunnel in any way
contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor. Proper
bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of adjoining ground; and in
excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere below the surface any
portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in any portion of a street
or sidewalk in the city which is paved with a concrete or asphalt paving. Where
necessary, and where a proper permit has been secured, tunnels may be driven or
excavated under any such pavement, provided that upon completion of the work
involved, the tunnel shall be backfilled with compacted sand.
   (C)   The maximum length of open trench permissible at any time shall be in
accordance with existing codes and regulations; however, at night no more than
50 feet may be open with proper barriers.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-17 BREAKING THROUGH PAVEMENT.
   (A)   Heavy-duty pavement breakers may be prohibited by the Public Works
Director when the use endangers existing substructures or other property.
   (B)   Saw cutting of Portland cement concrete may be required when the
nature of the work or the condition of the street warrants. When required, the
depth of the cut shall not be less than one inch; however, depths greater than
one inch may be required by the Public Works Director when circumstances
warrant. Saw cutting may be required by the Public Works Director outside the
limits of the excavation over cave-outs, overbreaks and small floating
sections.
   (C)   Approved cutting of bituminous pavement surface ahead of excavations
may be required by the Public Works Director to confine pavement damage to the
limits of the trench.
   (D)   Sections of sidewalks shall be removed to the nearest score line or
joint.
   (E)   Unstable pavement shall be removed over cave-outs and overbreaks and
the subgrade shall be treated as the main trench.
   (F)   Pavement edges shall be trimmed to a vertical face and neatly aligned
with the centerline of the trench.
   (G)   Cutouts outside of the trench lines must be normal or parallel to the
trench line.
   (H)   Boring or methods to prevent cutting of new pavement may be required
by the Public Works Director.
   (I)   The permittee shall not be required to repair pavement damage existing
prior to excavation unless his cut results in small floating sections that may
be unstable, in which case, the permittee shall remove and pave the area.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-20) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-18 PLACEMENT OF EXCAVATED MATERIAL.
   (A)   All material excavated from trenches and piled adjacent to the trench
or in any street shall be piled and maintained in such a manner as to eliminate
danger to those working in the trench, pedestrians or users of the streets, and
so that as little inconvenience as possible is caused to those using streets
and adjoining property. Where the confines of the area being excavated are too
narrow to permit the piling of excavated material beside the trench, such as
might be the case in a narrow alley, the Public Works Director shall have the
authority to require that the permittee haul the excavated material to a
storage site and then re-haul it to the trench site at the time of backfilling.
It shall be the permittee's responsibility to secure the necessary permission
and make all necessary arrangements for all required storage and disposal
sites.
   (B)   All material excavated shall be laid compactly along the side of the
trench and kept trimmed so as to cause as little inconvenience as reasonably
possible to vehicular and pedestrian traffic, or as specified by the Public
Works Director. Whenever necessary, in order to expedite the flow of traffic or
to abate the dirt or dust nuisance, toe boards or bins may be required by the
Public Works Director to prevent the spreading of dirt into traffic lanes.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-17) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-19 NOISE, DUST AND DEBRIS.
   Each permittee shall conduct and carry out excavation work in such a manner
as to avoid unnecessary inconvenience and annoyance to the general public and
occupants of neighboring property. The permittee shall take appropriate
measures to reduce to the fullest extent practicable in the performance of
excavation work, noise, dust and unsightly debris, and between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., shall not use any tool, appliance or equipment producing
noise of sufficient volume to disturb the sleep or repose of occupants of the
neighboring property.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-27) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-20 BACKFILLING.
   (A)   Fine material, free from lumps and stone, selected from the soil,
shall be thoroughly compacted around and under the substructure to the upper
level of such substructure. Above the upper level of the substructure, backfill
material shall be placed to the subgrade of the pavement in lifts consistent
with the type of soil involved and the degree of consolidation specified by the
City Council. Broken pavement, large stones, roots and other debris shall not
be used in the backfill.
   (B)   The number and size of each lift shall be dependent upon the type of
soil involved. Such backfill shall be done in a manner that will permit the
restoration of the surface to a density condition not less than that existing
prior to excavation, unless otherwise specified. The Public Works Director may
require soil tests to be furnished by a recognized soil testing laboratory or
registered professional engineer specializing in soil mechanics when, in his
opinion, backfill for any excavation is not being adequately compacted. In
order for the resurfacing to be permitted, such tests must show that the
backfill material meets the minimum requirements as prescribed by the City
Council. All expense of such tests shall be borne by the permittee.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-22) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-21 CLEAN-UP.
   Clean-up of the city's street, easements or roadways shall immediately
follow construction operations as the job progresses, and shall not be left
until all construction is completed. Maintenance of trenches, filling of
settlement, cleaning out eroded dirt from ditches and drainage structures shall
be a continuous operation. The permittee shall, before the close of the work
day, restore the damaged portions of the street, alley, easement or roadway to
a satisfactory condition similar or equal to that existing before the
commencement of the described work, including any seeding or sodding necessary.
All clean-up operations at the location of such excavation shall be
accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the Public Works Director. From time to time as may be ordered
by the Public Works Director, and in any event, immediately after completion of
the work, the permittee shall, at his or its own expense, clean up and remove
all refuse and unused materials of any kind resulting from the work, and upon
failure to do so within 24 hours after having been notified to do so by the
Public Works Director, said work may be done by the Public Works Director and
the cost thereof charged to the permittee, and the permittee shall also be
liable for the cost thereof under the performance guarantee provided hereunder.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-18) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-22 SURFACE RESTORATION.
   (A)   Upon completion of the work covered by this permit, final grading, re-
seeding, re-sodding, or any other requirements to restore the right-of-way,
easement or street to a condition equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of work shall be completed. Refills shall be properly tamped down,
and any bracing in such tunnel or excavation shall be left in the ground. Any
opening in a paved or improved portion of a street shall be repaired and the
surface relaid by the applicant in compliance with the regulations of the city
and under the supervision of the Public Works Director. Whenever it may be
necessary for the permittee to trench through any lawn area, said area shall be
re-seeded or the sod shall be carefully cut and rolled and replaced after
ditches have been backfilled as required in this article. All construction and
maintenance work shall be done in a manner calculated to leave the lawn area
clean of earth and debris and in a condition as nearly as possible to that
which existed before such work began.
   (B)   Shall repairs be deemed necessary, the permittee will receive
notification from the Director of Public Works by certified mail. If said
repairs are not satisfactorily completed within ten days of the date of
mailing, the city will take corrective measures, including but not limited to
obtaining funds from the performance guarantee.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-23 ABANDONMENT OF SUBSTRUCTURES.
   Whenever the use of a substructure is abandoned, except the abandonment of
service lines designed to serve single properties, the person owning, using,
controlling, or having an interest therein shall, within 30 days after such
abandonment, file with the Public Works Director a statement in writing, giving
in detail the location of the substructure so abandoned. If such abandoned
substructure is in the way or subsequently becomes in the way of an
installation of the city or any other public body, which installation is
pursuant to a governmental function, the owner shall remove such abandoned
substructure or pay the cost of its removal during the course of excavation for
construction of the facility by the city or any other public body.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-15) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-4-24 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The applicant represents all parties in interest and shall furnish
material, do all work and pay all costs.
   (B)   After an excavation is commenced, the permittee shall prosecute with
diligence and expedition all excavation work covered by the excavation permit,
and shall promptly complete such work and restore the street to its original
condition, or as near as may be so as not to obstruct the public place or
travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary.
   (C)   The proposed work shall be located and constructed to the satisfaction
of the Director of Public Works or his duly authorized representative. No
revisions or additions shall be made to the proposed work without the written
permission of the Director of Public Works or his duly authorized
representative.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to make such changes, additions, repairs
and relocations to the facilities constructed under this permit, or their
appurtenances on the city street, easement or roadway as may be considered
necessary to permit the relocation, reconstruction, widening or maintaining of
the city street, easement or roadway. The applicant, upon written request by
the Director of Public Works, shall perform such alterations or change of
location of the facilities, without expense to the city. Should the applicant
fail to make satisfactory arrangements to comply with this request within a
reasonable time, the city reserves the right to make such alterations and the
applicant agrees to pay for the cost incurred.
(Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-25 URGENT WORK.
   When traffic conditions, the safety or convenience of the traveling public
or the public interest require that the excavation work be performed as
emergency work, the Public Works Director shall have full power to order, at
the time the permit is granted, that a crew of men and adequate facilities be
employed by the permittee 24 hours a day to the end that such excavation work
may be completed as soon as possible.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-25) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-26 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the making of such
excavations as may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for
the location of trouble in conduit or pipe, or for making repairs, provided
that the person making such excavation shall apply to the Public Works Director
for such a permit on the first working day after such work is commenced.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-26) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 33-4-27 LOCATION RECORDS.
   Every public utility, after the enactment of this article, shall maintain
records showing the location of all of its underground facilities, except
relatively minor facilities, which connect a particular premises or building to
a facility serving more than one premises or building, and except oil or gas-
gathering or field lines. Every public utility shall maintain equipment which
can locate such facilities in the field.
(1993 Code, § 33-4-30) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 582, passed 3-21-
1977; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-1988; Am. Ord. 1088, passed 2-16-1999)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE V: IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
33-5-1   Public sidewalks
   
33-5-2   (Reserved)
   
33-5-3   Drainage requirements for properties other than subdivisions
§ 33-5-1 PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Grade. No public sidewalk shall be built except in conformance with
the Subdivision Code.
   (B)   Street Committee. All such structures or improvements made in the city
shall be made under and through the cooperation and direction of the Street
Committee of the city, duly authorized and empowered by the Mayor and Council
thereof.
(1993 Code, § 33-5-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-5-2 (RESERVED).
§ 33-5-3 DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPERTIES OTHER THAN SUBDIVISIONS.
   Individuals, companies, public agencies, or other entities proposing to
develop properties within the jurisdiction of the city for properties other
than subdivisions, as prescribed by the Zoning Code and subdivision ordinances,
shall comply with the requirements of §
34-4-15 of the Subdivision Code.
(Ord. 1021, passed 9-16-1996; Am. Ord. 1596, passed 3-5-2012)
ARTICLE VI: CULVERTS
Section
   
33-6-1   Obstruction of drain or storm sewer
   
33-6-2   (Reserved)
   
33-6-3   (Reserved)
   
33-6-4   (Reserved)
   
33-6-5   Type of culvert
   
33-6-6   Cost of installation
   
33-6-7   Backfill cost
§ 33-6-1 OBSTRUCTION OF DRAIN OR STORM SEWER.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain or storm sewer in any public
street or property.
(1993 Code, § 33-6-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-6-2 (RESERVED)
§ 33-6-3 (RESERVED)
§ 33-6-4 (RESERVED)
§ 33-6-5 TYPE OF CULVERT.
   Culverts shall be installed where driveways or walkways cross open ditches.
The material used for the construction of the culverts shall be reinforced
concrete, corrugated steel culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of 16
gauge, corrugated aluminum alloy culvert pipe with a minimum wall thickness of
16 gauge, Class IV, or of such other material as determined by the Department
of Public Works, depending upon the conditions existing. The culverts shall be
of such size, installed at the grade and constructed with couplings as
determined by the Public Works Director. The person desiring the culvert shall
purchase and install a culvert as provided herein and shall have it delivered
on the site.
(1993 Code, § 33-6-5) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-6-6 COST OF INSTALLATION.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, construct and install drainage inlet boxes in such form and manner as
the Public Works Director determines necessary depending on the conditions
existing.
(1993 Code, § 33-6-6) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-6-7 BACKFILL COST.
   Any person installing or replacing a culvert shall, at his or her own
expense, provide and place such backfill material as the Public Works Director
determines necessary to complete the project.
(1993 Code, § 33-6-7) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE VII: DRIVEWAYS
Section
   
33-7-1   Definitions
   
33-7-2   (Reserved)
   
33-7-3   (Reserved)
   
33-7-4   Grade surface
   
33-7-5   Materials
   
33-7-6   Repair
§ 33-7-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY. A road in any zoned district that provides a pathway from a street
or other thoroughfare to land used for any non-farm purposes.
   FIELD ROAD. A road in an agricultural zoned district that provides a pathway
from a street or other thoroughfare to a field, barn, shed or garage utilized
for farm purposes. Any improvements to the field, barn shed or garage, changing
its use to residential or recreational purposes would make the pathway a
driveway as defined herein.
(Ord. 1726, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 33-7-2 (RESERVED)
§ 33-7-3 (RESERVED)
§ 33-7-4 GRADE SURFACE.
   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, sharp
depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk. The grade shall be as nearly
as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to
have the surface finish of any driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk
constructed of such materials as to render it slippery and hazardous to
pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary from the grade of the
sidewalk or be other than level.
(1993 Code, § 33-7-4) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-7-5 MATERIALS.
   (A)   Driveways in all zone districts shall be constructed of concrete or
asphalt unless otherwise approved by the City Council. Driveways across
sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete or of such other material as may be
approved by the city. All concrete driveways must include a two-inch expansion
joint between back of curb and driveway.
   (B)   Field roads are not required to be constructed of concrete or asphalt.
(1993 Code, § 33-7-5) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988; Am. Ord. 1383, passed 8-21-2006; Am. Ord. 1615, passed 7-23-2012; Am.
Ord. 1726, passed 5-1-2017) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 33-7-6 REPAIR. 
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining a driveway or field road to
keep the same in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from
obstruction and openings.
(1993 Code, § 33-7-6) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988; Am. Ord. 1726, passed 5-1-2017) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
ARTICLE VIII: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING OFFENSIVE SUBSTANCES
Section
   
33-8-1   Construction
   
33-8-2   Vehicles to be kept sanitary
   
33-8-3   Vehicles stopping or parking in city limits; to stay covered while in
city
   
33-8-4   Right to detain for inspection
§ 33-8-1 CONSTRUCTION. 
   The bodies of all vehicles transporting or hauling offensive substances in
or through the city shall be completely covered with a solid material or with
canvass or a tarpaulin, and the covering shall be constructed, secured and
maintained in a manner that will not allow flies to enter or to leave the
bodies thereof, and the bottom or bed of all such vehicles shall be water-
tight.
(1993 Code, § 33-8-1) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-8-2 VEHICLES TO BE KEPT SANITARY. 
   All vehicles used as set out in §
33-8-1 shall be kept and maintained by the driver thereof in a reasonably clean
and sanitary condition. Both the interior and exterior of such vehicles shall
be kept free from accumulations of offensive substances.
(1993 Code, § 33-8-2) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-8-3 VEHICLES STOPPING OR PARKING IN CITY LIMITS; TO STAY COVERED WHILE IN
CITY. 
   No vehicles shall stop or park within the city limits while transporting
offensive substances, except in cases of emergency or in order to abide by
traffic laws and regulations, and while in the city limits, the bodies of such
vehicles shall be kept covered completely at all times.
(1993 Code, § 33-8-3) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 33-8-4 RIGHT TO DETAIN FOR INSPECTION.
   The police officers of the city and any representative of the County Health
Department are hereby authorized to stop and detain any vehicle transporting
offensive substances in the city for the purpose of inspecting the same and to
ascertain if the provisions of this article are being complied with.
(1993 Code, § 33-8-4) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
ARTICLE IX: ACCESS ROADS FOR UTILITIES
Section
   
33-9-1   Access roads for utilities
§ 33-9-1 ACCESS ROADS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   An access road contained in an easement approved by the city shall be
provided by the developer for any sewer lift station, natural gas regulating
station, or electrical substation installed after March 5, 2012.
   (B)   The access road shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and shall be
constructed of a minimum of six inches of compacted rock.
(Ord. 1596, passed 3-5-2012)
ARTICLE X: HOUSE NUMBERING
Section
   
33-10-1   Numbers on house
§ 33-10-1 NUMBERS ON HOUSE.
   It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of every house in the city
to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures at least
two and one-half inches high, showing the number of the house; any person, firm
or corporation failing to so number any house, building or other structure
occupied by him, or if after receiving notice to do so from the Clerk, shall
continue in his or her failure to so number such house, building or structure,
shall be fined pursuant to §
1-1-19.
(1993 Code, § 33-10-3) (Ord. 529, passed 5-6-1974; Am. Ord. 762, passed 4-4-
1988)
CHAPTER 34: SUBDIVISIONS
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
34-1-1   Title
   
34-1-2   Scope
   
34-1-3   Purpose
   
34-1-4   Interpretation
   
34-1-5   Application of code
   
34-1-6   Suitability of land for subdivision development
   
34-1-7   Rules and definitions
   
34-1-8   Adoption by reference
   
34-1-9   Subdivision plats not required
   
34-1-10   General regulations
   
34-1-11   Removal of improvements to land required by this code
   
34-1-12   General penalties
   
34-1-13   Land disposition penalty
   
34-1-14   Subdivision Administrator
   
34-1-15   Other offices
   
34-1-16   Authorization to act
   
34-1-17   Survey requirements for subdivisions
§ 34-1-1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, referred to, and cited as “The Subdivision
Code.”
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-2 SCOPE.
   (A)   For the purpose of the present and future development of the city and
for the promotion of public health, safety, convenience and general welfare of
persons living within the territory governed, the provisions and regulations
hereafter contained shall govern the subdividing and platting of lands lying
within the corporate limits of the city and within all unincorporated territory
located within one and one-half miles of the city, as now and hereafter
existing, except as otherwise noted in this code. Within the area of
jurisdiction of the city, the provisions of the statutes of the State of
Illinois are hereby adopted as part of the Official Plan of the city.
   (B)   This code prescribes procedures for the subdivision, resubdivision,
and development of land and construction of improvements upon land within the
area of jurisdiction of the city and comprises the procedures, requirements,
standards, and specifications with respect thereto.
   (C)   The provisions of this code shall apply to all developments of land
and construction of improvements upon land, whether a subdivision plat is
required or a traditional subdivision exists, it being the intent of this code
to apply to all types of development of land and improvements upon land within
the city and within areas lying within one and one-half miles of the corporate
limits of the city, as now or hereafter existing, except as otherwise provided
in this code or by state statute.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-3 PURPOSE.
   In accordance with State law, this chapter regulates the subdivision,
resubdivision, development of land and construction of improvements upon land
in order to assist in achieving the following specific objectives:
   (A)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety and
welfare;
   (B)   To implement the City Comprehensive Plan;
   (C)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and development of land;
   (D)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land be
properly monumented and recorded;
   (E)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and
buildings throughout the city;
   (F)   To protect against injury or damage caused by pollution, storm water
runoff, or erosion and sedimentation;
   (G)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to avoid
traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the proper
location, design, and construction of streets and sidewalks;
   (H)   To ensure the proper installation and maintenance of adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers, and other utilities and services;
and
   (I)   To ensure that in conservation areas, adequate parks and similar
facilities can be made available to serve the residents of new developments.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-4 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This subdivision code is intended as minimum requirements to provide
for coordinated, efficient, and economic development of the city, to ensure the
adequacy of street and utility facilities, and to promote the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   Thus, in accordance with state law, whenever this chapter imposes
higher standards than other governing bodies, said higher standards shall
supersede the county regulations in the unincorporated territory located within
the subdivision jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-5 APPLICATION OF CODE.
   (A)   No lot, tract, or parcel of land in a subdivision as defined herein
may be conveyed unless a final plat of the property has been approved according
to the requirements and provisions of this code and recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds, except in those instances listed in §
34-1-9, when subdivision plats will not be required.
   (B)   All requirements of this code, which pertain to preliminary plats,
improvement plans and final plats are, to the extent applicable, in the
discretion of the city, continuing requirements upon the ultimate owner of the
property.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-6 SUITABILITY OF LAND FOR SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT.
   Land unsuitable for subdivision development due to drainage, flood hazard
area, hillside area, rock formation or any other condition(s) constituting a
danger to health, life or property shall not be approved for subdivision
development unless the subdivider presents evidence or data satisfactory to the
City Council, establishing that the methods proposed to meet any such condition
(s) are adequate to avoid any danger to health, life, or property.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-7 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction and with the standard
specifications in the Illinois Department of Transportation Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction Manual, latest edition,
hereinafter referred to as “Standard Specifications”. Whenever a word or term
defined hereinafter appears in the text of this chapter, its meaning shall be
construed as set forth in the definition thereof; and any word appearing in
parentheses directly after a word herein defined shall be construed in the same
sense as that word:
   ADTs. Average daily traffic counts.
   BLOCK. A unit of property entirely surrounded by public highways, streets,
railroad right-of-way, waterways or other barriers, or combination thereof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE or BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front or side
of and across a lot establishing the minimum yard to be provided between the
principal building or structure and the lot line.
   CITY.  The City of Waterloo, Illinois.
   CITY CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Waterloo.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected City Council of the City of Waterloo.
   CITY ENGINEER. The duly appointed City Engineer of Waterloo.
   CODE. The Subdivision Code.
   COMMISSION. The duly appointed Planning Commission of the City.
   CONDUITS. For the purpose of this Code, these shall be buried drainage
structures such as pipes, culverts, storm sewers, drains, and the like, and
bridges. Differentiated from DRAINAGEWAYS.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITY. The City Council of Waterloo.
   COUNTY. Monroe County, Illinois.
   COUNTY CLERK. The County Clerk of Monroe County, Illinois.
   CROSSWALK. A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved for
pedestrian access.
   CUL-DE-SAC, COURT or DEAD-END STREET. A short street having one end open to
traffic and other end having a vehicle turnaround.
   CULVERTS. Typically, drainage systems with spans less than those prescribed
for bridges by IDOT, generally open to ditches or other drainageways on both
the upstream and downstream ends with no inlet structure around the upstream
end such that inflow falls into the system at said point at a height greater
than one ( foot measured at the conduit face.
      (1)   SMALL CULVERTS. Typically, those that intercept less than the
municipal-jurisdictional area of 15 acres or more. These may be designed for
capacity only.
      (2)   LARGE CULVERTS. Include all culverts other than small culverts.
   DESIGN. The arrangement of uses on the land and use of land for easements,
lots and rights-of-way, including material, alignment, grade and width of these
elements.
   DETENTION. Impeding surface runoff with no percolation into the soil
(retention), generally equates to a volume or space that only periodically has
runoff within it. For definition, existing or proposed lakes, that will have a
quantity of storm rainfall contained in it for periods longer than typical
storm events, will be considered retention areas (assuming some unquantifiable
percolation) with said detention volume above a normal pool elevation.
   DEVELOPMENT. The use of one or more lots for business purposes, industrial
purposes, or residential occupancy purposes.
   DISTRIBUTION LINE. A pipeline other than a gathering or transmission line.
   DRAINAGEWAY. An existing or proposed feature such as a depression, swale,
ditch, creek, river, floodway, lake, or detention/retention outlet that conveys
surface runoff. Generally, not considered a conduit such as storm sewer piping
or culvert.
   DRAINAGE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The lands required for the installation of storm
water sewers or drainage ditches, as required along a natural stream or
watercourse for preserving the channel and providing for the flow of water
therein.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public or a person for a specified purpose.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map of all or a portion of the subdivision which is
presented for final approval and when approved to be filed with the proper
county recording officer.
   FIRST FLOOR. Shall mean the floor that can be accessed first with or without
steps, up from the yard elevation nearest the street adjoining the home or
business.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. All land subject to periodic inundation from overflow or
natural waterways when subjected to the maximum possible runoff as designated
by the city or other governing body.
   IDOT. The Illinois Department of Transportation.
   IDOT STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   IEPA. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   IMPROVEMENT. Refers to site grading, street work and utilities (including
water, sewer, electric, gas and storm water), to be installed or agreed to be
installed by the subdivider on land to be used for public or private streets,
and easements or other purposes as are necessary for the general use of lot
owners in the subdivision.
   IMPROVEMENT PLAN. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the physical structures and facilities to be installed
either in or in conjunction with the subdivision.
   INLET. A structure that accepts surface runoff, connected to some conduit
system. Generally, interception of runoff occurs near the top of said structure
and runoff falls into said structure rather than via any conduit extending from
said structure or within said structure.
   JURISDICTIONAL. Proposed or existing feature regulated by a State, Federal,
or other local agency.
   KARST RECHARGE AREA.  The land which supplies water to a sinkhole and is
delineated by groundwater tracing investigations.
   LAP MANUAL. Bureau of Local Roads Local Administrative Policies Manual,
adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A collector or arterial street subject to legally
imposed restrictions on access pursuant to the authority having jurisdiction of
same.
   LOT. A unit of a block or a separate parcel of land created for construction
of improvements thereon.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basements, as
defined by the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be accepted that guarantees
certain improvements constructed under conditions set forth by the Commission
shall, at the time they are accepted for public maintenance, be in such
condition as to require no additional work beyond normal upkeep.
   MUNICIPAL JURISDICTION. A jurisdictional feature regulated by the City via
this Code and other ordinances. For drainage systems, drainageways, and conduit
systems draining 15 acres or more within or beyond the tract being developed,
but less than the drainage area acreage under the state or Federal
jurisdiction. This definition is for a specific purpose as relating to various
governmental jurisdictions and is not to be construed as indicating that the
City of Waterloo does not have authority over drainage areas of less than 15
acres.
   NATURAL WATER SURFACE. That occurring in an existing drainageway with
existing drainage structures excluded.
   NORMAL POOL. Water surface within a retention facility corresponding to the
elevation of the spillway or other outlet structure. Said water surface can not
equate to that produced by any storm event being planned for.
   OWNER. Every individual, firm, association, or other legal entity having a
proprietary interest in the subdivision.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. A security which may be accepted in lieu of a
requirement that certain improvements be made before approving final plat;
including performance bonds, escrow agreements, and other similar collateral or
surety agreements.
   PIPELINE. Any conduit through which natural gas, liquefied petroleum, oxygen
or other flammable or combustible products, or any of their products, is
conveyed or intended to be conveyed. The definition of PIPELINE shall include
compressor stations and other facilities integrated with pipeline operations.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. The drawings and documents indicating the proposed layout
of the subdivision which is submitted for consideration and tentative approval.
   SERVICE LINE. A line that transports natural gas from a common source of
supply to: (1) a customer meter or the connection to a customer’s piping,
whichever is farther downstream; or (2) the connection to a customer’s piping
if there is no customer meter. The customer meter is the meter that measures
the transfer of gas from the city distribution system to a customer.
   STORM SEWERS. Typically, conduit systems with an inlet at the upstream
termini with branching conduit systems. Any system other than culverts and
bridges.
   STREET. A right-of-way other than an alley affording principal means of
access to abutting property. For purpose of this code, STREET shall be primary
street, secondary street, or land access street.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street designed or utilized primarily for high vehicular
speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with intersections
at grade, and which may have direct access to abutting properties, and on which
geometric design and traffic control measures are used to expedite the safe
movement of through traffic, typically state or county highways meeting state
or county design standards and having estimated average daily traffic volumes
in excess of 3,000 vehicles. State or county determines right-of-way width.
   STREET, BUSINESS. A street, the primary function of which is to facilitate
through traffic, usually connecting collector streets and arterial streets,
having an estimated average daily traffic volume of between 300 and 1,000
vehicles. Fifty foot (50') right-of-way required.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street designed to facilitate traffic between other
collector streets or arterial streets, having estimated average daily traffic
volume of between 1,000 and 3,000 vehicles. Sixty foot (60') right-of-way
required.
   STREET, LAND ACCESS. A street used primarily to collect limited amounts of
residential traffic and for access to abutting properties, providing for
minimum speeds and traffic volumes, and typically terminating in a cul-de-sac
or dead-end, and having an average daily traffic volume of 100 vehicles or
less. Fifty foot (50') right-of-way required.
   STREET, PRIMARY. A street, used primarily to move intercity traffic as a
through street, which connects to at least another primary street or as a
continuation of other streets, and having a daily traffic volume of between 300
and 1,000 vehicles. Fifty foot (50') right-of-way required.
   STREET, SECONDARY. A street, the primary function of which is to provide
access to land access streets and not typically being a through street or
continuation of other streets, and having expected average daily traffic volume
of between 100 and 300 vehicles. Fifty foot (50') right-of-way required.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person or firm engaged in developing or improving a tract of
land which complies with the definition of a subdivision, as defined in this
code.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of land not an exception to the Illinois Plat Act.
   SWALE. A shallow trench like depression that carries water mainly during
rainstorms or snow melts.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. A pipeline subject to pressure of 125 or more PSIG and
operates at a hoop stress of 20% or more of SMYS (specified minimum yield
strength).
   UTILITY ACCESS ROAD. An access road used to service a sewer lift station,
natural gas regulating station, or electrical substation.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a building, which is open, unoccupied, or
unobstructed by structures, except as provided in the zoning code.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1250,
passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1597, passed 3-5-
2012; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-8 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   All definitions not otherwise noted or contained herein are hereby adopted
by reference.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-9 SUBDIVISION PLATS NOT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No subdivision plat is required in any of the following instances,
provided, however, all of the resulting divisions shall conform to this code. A
plat of survey thereof shall be provided by a registered surveyor and submitted
to the city.
      (1)   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (2)   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any
recorded subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
      (3)   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining
and contiguous land;
      (4)   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right-of-way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (5)   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
      (6)   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or
grants or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or
instruments relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
      (7)   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
      (8)   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two parts of a particular parcel or tract of land
existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements of
access.
      (9)   The sale of a single lot of less than five acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by an Illinois-registered land surveyor; provided,
that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the
same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of
the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that this exemption does
not invalidate any other City requirement(s) applicable to the subdivision of
land.
   (B)   All provisions of this code with respect to the development of land
and construction of improvements upon land within the city shall nevertheless
be applicable to any such development or improvements of land within the city
and within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits of the city, as now
or hereinafter existing, except as otherwise provided in this code or by state
statute.
   (C)   Under the circumstances when subdivision plats are not required as
described above, the city reserves the right to request a plat or survey or
other documentation if there is a need for said plat, survey or documentation
in order to verify conformance with this code and/or to ensure that the
division of property is in accordance with the purpose and objectives of the
code as listed herein.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1616,
passed 11-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-10 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No plat of any subdivision shall be valid nor entitled to record
unless and until the same has been approved by the City Council, in accordance
with the procedure herein provided.
   (B)   No improvements will be made within any subdivision until the plats
for the subdivision and plans for improvement have been approved by the City
Council, and no improvement shall be made upon any land subject to the
provisions of this code until there has been compliance with the provisions of
this code.
   (C)   No improvements will be made on any non- residential development site
until the site plan and plans for improvement have been approved by the City
Council, and no improvement shall be made upon any land subject to the
provisions of this code until there has been compliance with the provisions of
this code.
   (D)   Where a tract of land is to be subdivided in several stages and the
subdivider requests approval in parts, the entire tract to be developed must be
submitted with appropriate sectioning to demonstrate the total design as
proposed for the entire subdivision.
   (E)   The provisions of this code will be held to be the minimum
requirements necessary in the subdivision of land.
   (F)   A certificate of approval as provided by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-
12, shall not be issued unless the map or plat of any proposed subdivision
provides for streets, alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities,
storm and flood water runoff channels and basins, and public grounds, in
conformity with the applicable requirements of this code and the official map
of the city.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Chapter 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12
§ 34-1-11 REMOVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS TO LAND REQUIRED BY THIS CODE.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who removes or alters any
improvements to land in any subdivision or development which have been made in
compliance with the requirements of this code and have been approved by the
City Council pursuant to the provisions of this code without the advance
written permission of the City Council or its designee shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to punishment as provided in this code. Whenever any
such removal or alteration has occurred, the city shall have the right to enter
upon the land where such removal or alteration has taken place and correct such
removal or alteration and recover the cost of such correction and the city’s
expense with respect thereto, including its attorney’s fees, from such person,
firm, corporation or other entity responsible for the removal or alteration.
(Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-1-12 GENERAL PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who constructs any public
improvement, or portion thereof, in violation of the provision of this code, or
otherwise violates any provision of this code, other than §
34-1-13 of this code, shall be subject to the general penalty described in
Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1535,
passed 10-26-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-13 LAND DISPOSITION PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who shall sell or lease, while
this code is in effect, any lot or lots or block or blocks within the area of
jurisdiction of the city, or any re-subdivision of any block or lot therein,
before all of the requirements of this code have been complied with, shall be
fined not less than $500, nor more than $750 for each lot, block or part
thereof so sold or leased. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day that such act continues.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1535,
passed 10-26-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-14 SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR.
   There is hereby created the position of Subdivision Administrator. The
Subdivision Administrator shall have the primary responsibility for overseeing
the observance and implementation of the provisions and regulations contained
in this subdivision code as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-15 OTHER OFFICES.
   When duly appointed, the Subdivision Administrator may also hold the office
of Zoning Administrator created by Chapter 40 of the city code, and may hold
that office of Building Official created by Article I of
Chapter 6 of the city code.
(Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-16 AUTHORIZATION TO ACT.
   Whenever the exercise of any power or action is required upon behalf of the
city under this code and there is no designation of the person who is
authorized to exercise the power or take the action, then the exercise of the
power or the taking of the action shall be by the City Council, or its
designee.
(Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-1-17 SURVEY REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivisions within the jurisdictional limits of the city shall be
tied to a minimum of two survey control points established by traverse to the
city’s Monument Densification Project on file with the City of Waterloo. Re-
subdivisions that have previously been tied to two survey control points need
only show on the Final Plat the previously plotted bearing(s) and dimension(s)
by the original subdivision plat.
   (B)   Subdivision boundary descriptions shall be based on an accurate
traverse and referenced in accordance with the Illinois Coordinate System Act,
ILCS Ch. 765, Act 225, § 1 et seq., and the Federal Geodetic Control Committee.
The allowable error of closure and positional accuracy of the boundary
traverse, or any portion of the Final Plat, shall be one tenth of a foot (0.10)
or 1:20,000 for distances greater than 2,000 feet for urban property (Second
Order, Class 1) and one tenth of a foot or 1:10,000 for distances greater than
1,000 feet for suburban property (Second Order, Class 2).
   (C)   The subdivider shall provide a minimum of one permanent monument/
benchmark in each subdivision within dedicated right-of-way with adequate
access from the street. Additional phases of a subdivision will not be required
to provide the permanent monument/benchmark if the boundary of the phase being
developed is less than 1,000 feet from a permanent monument/benchmark placed in
a previous phase of that same subdivision. Variances may be granted, by the
City Council, for subdivisions if the boundary of the proposed subdivision is
less than 1,000 feet from one or more previously placed permanent monuments/
benchmarks. If a variance is granted, the city shall determine which permanent
monument(s)/benchmark(s) will be used.
   (D)   The permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) shall be marked as horizontal
control and vertical control. When elevations are established by spirit
leveling, loop closure to existing control shall not exceed 0.035 feet M, where
M represents the length of level circuit in miles. Second Order, Class 2
control shall be required for all permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s). All
permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) shall be Type II marker with bronze tablet
as described on the City of Waterloo’s Typical Plat Control Details as shown in
the City of Waterloo Construction Details, and by this reference made a part
hereof. The permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) shall be set level with the
finished grade. The proposed benchmark shall be in the City of Waterloo datum,
North American Vertical Datum, ‘88 (NAVD88). The datum elevation and monument
coordinates shall be checked against at least two approved reference marks on
file with the City of Waterloo. The result of the closure survey shall be
reported in writing on the City of Waterloo Typical Plat Control Details
Monument and Benchmark Record as shown in the City of Waterloo Construction
Details, and by this reference made a part hereof, and provided to the City of
Waterloo Zoning Office. An Illinois Professional Land Surveyor shall sign and
seal said form. Upon receipt of this information, the city shall review said
information. The city reserves the right to request additional checks of
submitted information on the part of the Surveyor working for the developer,
with any and all additional costs to be borne by the subdivider and his
Surveyor. Upon approval, the city shall provide the subdivider with a bronze
tablet and a benchmark number. The subdivider shall stamp the bronze tablet
with the elevation and benchmark number. The city shall inspect the
installation of the disc. The Final Plat will not be signed and recorded until
the permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) is/are installed and inspected.
(Ord. 1278, passed 3-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
ARTICLE II: APPLICATION AND SKETCH PLAT
Section
   
34-2-1   General regulations
   
34-2-2   Intent and purpose
   
34-2-3   Preparation
   
34-2-4   Application procedure and plat requirements
   
34-2-5   Review procedures and considerations
§ 34-2-1 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Before any land is subdivided in the city and before a subdivision plat and/
or improvement plans are approved by the City Council, those seeking to
subdivide or seeking to obtain said approvals may submit an application and
sketch plat complying with the rules and regulations set forth in this article.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-2-2 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The objective of this procedure is to provide an opportunity for the
applicant (subdivider) and appropriate city committees to confer regarding the
concept and basic elements of the proposed development. This procedure is
intended to provide the foundation for a clear understanding and line of
communication between the applicant and the city concerning the applicant’s
development proposals and the city’s subdivision development regulations, and
further serve to conserve time, effort, and expense. By allowing the applicant
an early opportunity to gain the city’s input into the proposed development,
this procedure should facilitate and expedite the formal subdivision review and
approval process.
   (B)   Action, recommendations, comments and discussion of a sketch plat
submitted for review under this Article II shall in no case be considered as
precedential or otherwise binding upon the Planning Commission, the City
Council or the city with respect to subsequent consideration and action on
preliminary plats, improvement plans or final plats of proposed subdivisions.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-2-3 PREPARATION.
   Prior to preparing and submitting the application and sketch plat for a
subdivision, the applicant shall review the city’s applicable codes and
ordinances to determine the specific procedures and steps to prepare and submit
a subdivision plat and plans for approval. The Comprehensive Plan of the city
shall be reviewed by the subdivider to determine how his or her proposed plat
will compliment the plan and development guidelines and policies. Requirements
as to the general layout of streets and for reservations of land, street
improvements, storm water drainage, water and sanitary sewer, community
facilities, and relationship to other developments in the immediate area shall
be discussed and determined during review.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-2-4 APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   If the applicant elects to proceed under this Article II prior to submission
of a preliminary plat, the applicant shall file an application and sketch plat
with the Planning Commission. The required application information shall be
included on a form entitled “Application for Planning Approval of Proposed
Development”, as furnished by the city. Attached shall be a neat sketch plat of
sufficient scale, preferably on 11-inch x 17-inch reproducible paper, with at
least the following information:
   (A)   Site boundaries, size and general description, and location;
   (B)   Approximate subdivision lot boundaries and dimensions;
   (C)   Proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to
existing conditions;
   (D)   Existing land use of adjacent property;
   (E)   Any existing or proposed common open space (not common ground or
outlots) and community facilities.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-2-5 REVIEW PROCEDURES AND CONSIDERATIONS.
   Upon submission of an application for sketch plat approval, the Planning
Commission, in conjunction with appropriate city staff and department heads,
shall meet to review and consider approval of the sketch plat before further
work on the preliminary plat and engineering plans are initiated. There is no
fee for the review and consideration of a sketch plat. The following steps and
procedures shall apply:
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for sketch plat approval, the Chairman
of the Planning Commission shall schedule the applicant on the agenda of the
next Planning Commission meeting to review and consider the proposed
subdivision development. The plat and application must be received by the city
no later than the fifteenth day of the month preceding the Planning Commission
meeting in which sketch plat acceptance is being sought;
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consider the sketch plat to determine if
the plat and proposed development conforms with the subdivision code and
development guidelines and standards set forth. Particular attention will be
given to classification of streets, width of streets, their relation to the
topography of the land, water and fire protection, sewage disposal, drainage,
lot sizes and arrangement, the further development of adjoining lands as yet
unsubdivided, and the requirements of the city’s Comprehensive Plan and
amendments as adopted;
   (C)   Comments and recommendations generated as a result of the Planning
Commission’s review shall be kept intact and filed along with the preliminary
plat and subsequent submissions. Furthermore, the applicant shall be provided
with a list of all comments and suggestions regarding the sketch plat and
actions necessary to proceed with preparation of the preliminary plat;
   (D)   Action on the sketch plat by the Planning Commission is not required
before submission of a preliminary plat pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
ARTICLE III: PRELIMINARY PLATS
Section
Division I: Procedure
   
34-3-1   Submittal of preliminary plats
   
34-3-2   (Reserved)
   
34-3-3   Variations
   
34-3-4   Approval; preliminary plats
Division II: General Requirements
   
34-3-5   Requirements for preliminary plats
Division III: Minimum Standards of Design
   
34-3-6   General statements
   
34-3-7   Street planning
   
34-3-8   General street design requirements
   
34-3-9   Limited street access requirements
   
34-3-10   Right-of-way, street, sidewalk, curb and gutter requirements
   
34-3-11   Additional right-of-way requirements
   
34-3-12   County highways
   
34-3-13   Collector locations
   
34-3-14   Noise abatement
   
34-3-15   Easements and outlots
   
34-3-16   Blocks
   
34-3-17   Lots
   
34-3-18   Public reservations
   
34-3-19   Sewage disposal
   
34-3-20   (Reserved)
   
34-3-21   Drainage
   
Appendix:   Illustrations
DIVISION I: PROCEDURE
§ 34-3-1 SUBMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   The person or persons proposing a subdivision must first submit to the
city the required number of copies of a preliminary subdivision plan prepared
in accordance with the applicable requirements for plats set forth herein.
However, dimensions and locations of the various required features which cannot
be shown exactly shall be approximated so that the preliminary plan will be
sufficiently complete to be judged by the city.
   (B)   A fee, prescribed in
Chapter 12 of this Code of Ordinances, shall be paid to the City with each
Preliminary Plat submittal.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-2 (RESERVED)
§ 34-3-3 VARIATIONS.
   The City Council may grant a variance or special exception from all
provisions of this code, in each case that three of the following provisions,
including (A), and (B) of this section are met:
   (A)   The subdivider shall apply in writing for such a variance or exception
upon filing of the preliminary plat with the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Any variance or exception granted shall comply with the intent and
purpose declared in this code.
   (C)   The subdivider shows that because of topographical or other physical
conditions peculiar to the site, the provisions of this code would cause an
unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to.
   (D)   In the opinion of the Planning Commission, the variation or exception
will afford better site design and land utilization.
   (E)   Any variation proposed or contained within a Planned Unit Development
shall be governed by the applicable requirements of the zoning code, rather
than by this Article III.
   (F)   Any variation granted shall be in writing and clearly state all
conditions requiring the variance or special exception, and shall set forth the
exact terms of the variance, a copy of which shall be attached to the
preliminary plats or final plats, as the case may be.
   (G)   A copy of any variation shall be part of the public record and shall
be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-4 APPROVAL; PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat within 90
days from date of application, or the filing of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever is later, and shall forward the plat to the City
Council with a recommendation that the plat be approved, approved with
modifications, or disapproved, and giving the reasons for the recommendations
made as required by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8.
   (B)   The City Council shall review the preliminary plat and shall either
approve or disapprove said plat. Preliminary approval shall not qualify a plat
for recording.
   (C)   The term of the preliminary plat approval is limited as follows:
      (1)   Single-phase developments:
         (a)   If improvement plans for the development are not approved within
one year of the date of approval of the preliminary plat, then the approval of
the preliminary plat shall expire and be of no further force or effect, except
as provided herein below. All fees paid by the subdivider shall be forfeited
upon expiration of the plat.
         (b)   If improvement work does not commence within six months after
date of improvement plan approval and the improvement plan approval expires,
the preliminary plat approval shall also expire and be of no further force or
effect except as provided herein below. All fees paid by the subdivider shall
be forfeited upon expiration of the plat.
         (c)   The City Council may, at its discretion, extend the time a
preliminary plat is valid for a period up to six months from the date the
preliminary plat would otherwise expire, if:
            1.   The subdivider submits to the City Council a written request
for the extension; and
            2.    The written request sets forth specific reasons for the
extension that are of a compelling nature and are not attributable to the
subdivider’s neglect; and
            3.   The subdivider has not obtained approval to develop the
development in phases.
      (2)   Multi-phased developments:
         (a)   A subdivider may request permission to develop the development
in phases. The city may, at its discretion, give the subdivider permission to
develop the development in phases. The phases must be numbered and developed
consecutively.
         (b)   If the improvement plans for the first phase, or phases, of a
phased development are not approved within one year of the approval of the
preliminary plat, then the approval of the preliminary plat shall expire and be
of no further force or effect. All fees paid by the subdivider shall be
forfeited upon expiration of the plat.
         (c)   If improvement work does not commence within six months after
date of improvement plan approval for a designated phase and the improvement
plan approval expires, the preliminary plat approval shall also expire for all
uncompleted phases and be of no further force or effect. All fees paid by the
subdivider shall be forfeited upon expiration of the plat.
         (d)   Improvement plans for all phases of a phased development must be
approved within five years of the approval of the preliminary plat, or the
preliminary plat approval for uncompleted phases shall expire and be of no
further force or effect. All fees paid by the subdivider shall be forfeited
upon expiration of the plat.
   (D)   The approval of a preliminary plat shall not imply that a consistent
improvement plan or final plat shall be approved.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1250,
passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-
2016)
DIVISION II: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 34-3-5 REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   A fee as prescribed in
Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances shall be paid to the city with each
preliminary plat submittal.
   (B)   The planning arrangement and design of any proposed subdivision shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   A simple, complete, and explicit title which does not duplicate the
name of a previously recorded plat, except in the case of additions. In the
case of a resubdivision, the title shall contain the full name of the
subdivision being replatted.
      (2)   Date, north point, and scale.
      (3)   Dimensions of all lines shown.
      (4)   The exact angle made by, or the direction of all intersecting
boundary lines, intersecting street lines, and the location of said lines in
reference to section, quarter section or land grant lines and corners.
      (5)   The exact position and character of all boundary markers set and/or
found.
      (6)   Contour lines on one-foot intervals of existing elevations of the
subdivision.
      (7)   Name and signature of owner and the legal description of the
boundaries of said subdivisions, certified to and including the seal of a
licensed Illinois Land Surveyor.
      (8)   Restrictive covenants may be more restrictive than the ordinances
of the city, but not less restrictive. Restrictions shall be recorded with the
final plat.
      (9)   Zone district classification.
      (10)   Name of each adjoining subdivision, intersecting street name
thereof, and adjoining unsubdivided land labeled as such.
      (11)   Existing and proposed street, alley, easement, lot, property and
building lines, with each street width dimension and right-of-way measurements
for at least 300 feet beyond the limits of the proposed subdivision.
      (12)   Lakes, ponds, streams, courses of storm water runoff, direction of
flow of each, and approximate boundaries of high-water, low-water and shoulders
of banks, if any.
      (13)   Where the street line is curved on a regular curve, the radius of
the intersecting angle of the tangents shall be shown. Where a street line is
curved on an irregular curve, the base line method of referencing shall be
used. Off-set distances from the base line shall be shown at a sufficient
number of measured intervals to definitely re-establish the curved street
lines. The lengths of all base lines and the angles between them or their
directions shall be shown. Where practical, the beginning and the ending of a
base line shall be at the street corner of a lot, and such corners shall be
marked with concrete or stone monuments or iron stakes.
      (14)   When an angle occurs in any lot line between lot corners, the
measurement of the angles or the direction of the lines shall be shown.
      (15)   Names or numbers of all streets within the proposed subdivision.
Those in line with streets in nearby subdivisions shall have the same name or
number, all others different. Certification of approval of street names shall
be secured from the County 911 Coordinator.
      (16)   Progressive numbering, without letter prefixes or suffixes, of all
lots and/or blocks.
      (17)   Acreages in and tracts to be dedicated for public use, other than
the streets, alleyways and easements.
      (18)   Preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale of not more than 100
feet to one inch, and shall not result in a drawing over thirty-six inches in
longest dimension on any one sheet.
      (19)   Any applicable soil reports.
      (20)   Utility rights-of-way, indicating:
         (a)   Location;
         (b)   Widths;
         (c)   Type.
            1.   Sewer;
            2.   Water;
            3.   Electric;
            4.   Other.
      (21)   Utility access roads required after March 5, 2012, indicating:
         (a)   Location; and
         (b)   Width (minimum ten feet).
      (22)    Lot layout, indicating:
         (a)   Lot dimensions;
         (b)   Lot areas, not less than those stipulated in the appropriate
district regulations of the Zoning Code. Areas may be listed by schedule;
         (c)   Building setback lines shown and properly dimensioned;
         (d)   Proposed land use;
         (e)   Lot numbers;
         (f)   All lots abut a publicly dedicated street for a distance of not
less than the minimum width of the lot;
         (g)   Lots are as nearly rectangular in shape as practicable;
         (h)   Lots are not less than the provision of the zoning code;
         (i)   Lot lines are substantially at right angles to the street lines
and radial to curved street lines;
         (j)   Access to any state, county or road district highway or road as
may be required by the city when a lot does not abut a city street;
         (k)   Common ground is prohibited except in the discretion of the City
Council and only for the following uses:
            1.    Swimming pools.
            2.   Club houses.
            3.   Lakes, dams, and other water features.
            4.    Subdivision monument signs and flagpoles.
            5.    Landscaping and hardscaping.
            6.   Walking paths.
            7.   Parking areas.
            8.    Communal mail boxes.
            9.   Pavilions.
            10.    Playgrounds.
      (23)   A certificate by the owner in fee of all the property embraced
within the preliminary plat, stating that the preliminary plat is the free and
voluntary act of the owner, and stating the owner’s intention to dedicate to
public use forever the streets and drainage easements shown thereon, and the
intention of the owner to dedicate the easements shown thereon for the
construction and maintenance of municipal and public utility services, and
stating that the building lines shown thereon will be referenced to in all
future conveyances of lots in the subdivision, and further stating the owner’s
intention to dedicate and reserve to the public any right-of-way lying along
any public road adjacent to the boundaries of the plat.
      (24)   A title commitment indicating the ownership of the property shown
on the preliminary plat.
      (25)   The location(s) of all permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) to be
placed and/or being used as required and described by §
34-1-17(C).
      (26)   Preliminary Plats shall denote existing utility lines and
appurtenances.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1278,
passed 3-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1597, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-
2016; Am. Ord. 1746, passed 1-15-2018) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
DIVISION III: MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 34-3-6 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   The subdivider shall conform to the following principles and standards of
land subdivision in the design of each subdivision or portion thereof. No
preliminary plat shall be approved unless it conforms to the following minimum
standards of design. The Planning Commission, in its review of the preliminary
plat, will take into consideration the requirements of the community and the
best use of the land being subdivided.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-7 STREET PLANNING.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of
storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their appropriate
relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such streets.
Wherever possible and necessary, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall provide for the continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas.
Where adjoining unsubdivided areas may be subdivided, the arrangements of
streets in a new subdivision shall make provision for the proper projection of
streets into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of
the new subdivision at appropriate locations. No building shall be allowed in
areas within a projected street continuation. In no case shall land be
subdivided in such a manner that adjoining property will be denied access.
   (B)   Where subdivision streets or rights-of-way are continuations or
extensions of existing streets or rights-of-way, the width thereof shall be of
the same or greater width as the existing street or right-of-way, except that
in no case shall the street or right-of-way in the subdivision be of less width
than the minimum as provided herein. Dedication of half or portions of a street
shall be discouraged, but may be permitted whenever there is no other logical
method of platting. Reserve or spite strips of any type shall not be allowed.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-8 GENERAL STREET DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall also be met when planning the street
network:
   (A)   Streets shall intersect, as nearly as possible, at right angles.
   (B)   Land access street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at
least 25 feet, as measured to the edge of the pavement; intersections involving
collector streets shall have radii of not less than 40 feet.
   (C)   When two primary or collector streets intersect such that there are
four approaches, approaches opposite each other cannot have centerline offsets
of less than 125 feet of highest street classification. See Figure 34-3-8(C) in
the
Appendix at the end of this article.
   (D)   Abrupt breaks in the centerline of streets such that the diverging
centerline is at an angle with the projected centerline are prohibited. Large
gradual curves shall be used. See Figure 34-3-8(D) in the
Appendix at the end of this article.
   (E)   Streets that will be extended in the future by the developer or
designated by the city shall be terminated at the property line without a cul-
de-sac.
   (F)   When extension of streets terminating in cul-de-sacs are proposed, the
cul-de-sac shall be removed.
   (G)   The minimum radius for any curve in the street centerline shall be 150
feet to ensure proper stopping sight distance. The minimum radii for the
corresponding street classification as prescribed in this section shall be
used.
   (H)   When streets are connected to collectors or arterials, the PC or PT of
any radius of said street shall begin at least 75 feet back from the
intersection with the collector or arterial centerline, or at greater lengths
as required by the state or county. See Figure 34-3-8(H) in the
Appendix at the end of this article.
   (I)   When proposed streets access state or county routes, all approved
permits required by said agencies shall be presented to the city.
   (J)   Unless topography indicates a need for a greater length, dead-end
streets, designed to be so permanently, shall be no longer than 500 feet, and
shall terminate in a circular open space having a radius at the outside of the
pavement of a least 45 feet and a diameter at the outside of the right-of-way
of at least 110 feet. This length may be increased where topography or existing
conditions prohibit a reasonable connection.
   (K)   Secondary streets shall be designed so as to discourage through
traffic but facilitate movement of local traffic.
   (L)   No street shall be in excess of 10% grade and no collector street
grade shall be in excess of 8% grade, except as otherwise approved by the City
Council due to adverse topographic conditions. For adequate drainage, the
minimum grade of any new street shall not be less than 0.3%.
   (M)   The City Council shall not approve streets which will be subject to
frequent inundation or flooding as identified by local, state or federal
agencies and/or the city. All requirements of said agencies shall be followed
when designing roadways.
   (N)   Alleys shall be avoided in single-family and two-family districts;
however, alleys may be required in multiple-family districts and commercial or
industrial districts, unless other definite and assured provision is made for
service access, such as off-street loading, unloading and parking, consistent
and adequate for the use proposed.
   (O)   Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted, except where provided with
adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-end, or where such dead-end alleys
provide the only access to off-street parking or loading spaces.
   (P)   Alleys, where provided, shall have a right- of-way of not less than 20
feet.
   (Q)   Intersection of more than two streets at one point shall be
prohibited.
   (R)   Where the subdivision abuts on or contains an existing or proposed
area service highway, the City Council may require that street layout is such
that no lots front an existing or proposed area service highway.
   (S)   Wherever the Illinois Department of Transportation or the county has
gone on record as desiring the relocation and/or the construction of a new
highway, or whenever a municipality has duly recorded with the county a
comprehensive plan and/or adopted an official map defining the location of
streets, the subdivider shall reserve rights-of-way for the construction of
such streets or highways with rights-of-way alignments and widths as prescribed
by the appropriate jurisdictional agency.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-9 LIMITED STREET ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever a development abuts an existing or proposed arterial highway,
access to the development or property from the arterial highway shall be
provided by one of the following means:
   (A)   A public frontage road separated from the arterial highway by a
planting strip, defined as landscape 20 feet wide, consisting of shrubbery and
trees at least five feet in height when planted, and shall be maintained at not
less than 18 feet in height when full-grown. The frontage road shall have
access to the arterial highway at a right angle.
   (B)   A public street entered onto the arterial highway at a right angle.
   (C)   Public street intersections off of the limited access highway shall be
located at not less than 1,000 foot intervals on the same side of the street.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-10 RIGHT-OF-WAY, STREET, SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER REQUIREMENTS.
   The following shall be the minimum requirements provided under the terms of
this code, however, the City Council reserves the right to waive or modify the
following requirements due to limitations imposed by topography and/or other
factors. The City Council, with recommendations from the Planning Commission,
shall make final determinations regarding street classifications. (See Figure
34-3-10 in the
Appendix at the end of this article.) Through lane dimensions are measured from
centerline to edge of pavement or interior edge of parking lane. Parking lane
dimensions are measured from outer edge of driving lane to face or flowline of
curb and gutter. All intersection right-of-way requirements shall be determined
by required radii and lane widths. Projected 20-year ADT (average daily
traffic) and DHV (daily hourly volume) are required for street classifications,
pavement design and determination of turning lane requirements at proposed
intersections. When there are more than 100 vph that will be turning onto
existing streets or proposed streets, regardless of the existing volumes, a
100-foot, 12-foot minimum width turn lane shall be provided for the movement.
Approach and taper rates shown in Figure 34-4-10(A) of the
Appendix shall be used for appropriate design speed. Radii at the intersection
shall be designed to accommodate anticipated vehicle types, including WB-60
trucks. Signalization will be required if warrants of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices are met. These requirements are also applicable in
situations where state highways are accessed. Prior to approval of final plat,
the developer shall submit to the city letters of approval for intersection
geometry, possible required signalization, and for ditch flow calculations
obtained from the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (A)   Primary street.  Two 14-foot through lanes with no adjacent parking or
two 12-foot through lanes with adjacent parking. Radii shall be a minimum of
350 feet.
   (B)   Secondary street. Two 14-foot through lanes with no adjacent parking.
Two ten-foot lanes with adjacent parking. Radii shall be a minimum 200 feet.
   (C)   Land access street. Two 14-foot through lanes, with no adjacent
parking. Two ten-foot lanes, with adjacent parking. Radii shall be a minimum
150 feet.
   (D)   Business streets. Three 11-foot through lanes with no adjacent
parking. Approach and taper rates shown in Figure 34-4-10(A) of the
Appendix shall be used for appropriate design. Radii at the intersection shall
be designed to accommodate anticipated vehicle types, including WB-65 trucks.
Business/industrial streets that end in a cul-de-sac can be 32 feet back-to-
back, no parking, two through lanes.
   (E)   Collector street. Typically intended for through street. ADT between
1,000 and 3,000 vehicles. Two 14-foot through lanes and adjacent parking lanes.
Radii shall be a minimum 500 feet.
   (F)   Arterial streets. Typically require implementation of state or county
design requirements.
   (G)   Sidewalk, curb and gutter requirements.
      (1)    Parking. Two six-foot parking lanes, one on each side, will be
required if 80% of the lots in the development are below 16,000 square feet,
except a collector which shall have two eight-foot parking lanes. See Figure
34-3-10 in the
Appendix at the end of this article.
      (2)   Curb and gutter. All curbs and gutters shall have a minimum width
of 24 inches measured from the back of curb to the edge of the pavement for all
streets except for business streets and collectors. These shall have barrier
type curb and gutter, typically B-6.18 curbing.
      (3)   Grass area. A three-foot grass area measured from the back of the
curbing towards the lot shall be provided for on both sides of the street for
all streets except for a collector street, for which no grass area will be
required.
      (4)   Sidewalks.
         (a)   Requirements. Four-foot sidewalks as measured from the back of
the curbing towards the lot, and three-foot grass area between the back of curb
and sidewalk shall be provided on one side of a street for all streets except a
collector, which shall have a minimum of five-foot sidewalk, as measured from
the back of curb and gutter towards the lot on both sides of the street.
         (b)   Location.
            1.   Sidewalks are not required when dwelling unit density is below
1.99 dwelling units per acre.
            2.   Dwelling unit density from two to four units per acre require
sidewalks on one side of the street.
            3.   Sidewalks are required on both sides of a street when dwelling
unit density is 4.1 or more units per acre.
            4.   In business and industrial zones, decorative rock may be
substituted in the required grass areas instead of vegetation.
         (c)   ADA compliance. All sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall meet ADA
requirements.
      (5)   Additional lanes.  Additional lanes will be required if traffic
analysis indicates the need for more lanes.
      (6)   Right-of-way. Fifty feet of right-of-way shall be required as a
minimum for all streets, with 25 feet either side of the roadway centerline.
Right-of-way for collector streets shall be 60 feet, with 30 feet either side
of the roadway centerline. Right-of-way for arterial streets will meet state
and/or county design requirements.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-11 ADDITIONAL RIGHT-OF-WAY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the subdivision adjoins a non- access highway constructed by
the Illinois Department of Transportation or the county, which is the
maintenance responsibility of the Illinois Department of Transportation, the
City Council, upon the recommendation of the Illinois Department of
Transportation, may require the reservation of a service road with a minimum
right-of-way of not less than 60 feet, which road shall parallel the highway
and may have connections thereto at locations that are jointly approved by the
City Council and the Illinois Department of Transportation.
   (B)   Wherever any highway, constructed by the Illinois Department of
Transportation, which is the maintenance responsibility of the Illinois
Department of Transportation, traverses or adjoins the subdivision, the
subdivider shall reserve a right-of-way having a width of not less than 60 feet
from the centerline of such highway.
   (C)   If any tract of land proposed to be subdivided, or any part thereof,
lies adjacent to any highway over which the Illinois Department of
Transportation has jurisdiction with respect to maintenance and upkeep, and an
access is desired from such highway to any lot, street, roadway, alley or
otherwise in such proposed subdivision, then the subdivider shall be required
to obtain and submit to the city a written permit from the Illinois Department
of Transportation granting him permission to construct such accessway.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-12 COUNTY HIGHWAYS.
   Wherever any highway, constructed by the county, which is the maintenance
responsibility of the county, and traverses or adjoins the subdivision, the
subdivider shall reserve a right-of-way having a width of not less than 50 feet
from the centerline of any county highway, and 30 feet from the centerline of
any road district highway in the county.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-13 COLLECTOR LOCATIONS.
   In order to provide adequate circulation and to ensure adequate access to
developed areas, collector streets shall be provided at approximately one-half
mile intervals, with the exact right-of-way location determined by the City
Council. Consideration shall be given by the City Council to the topography,
density of development, and established streets.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-14 NOISE ABATEMENT.
   If the project or subdivision is to be developed within 1,000 feet of the
centerline of an existing or planned highway, with a 15-year projected Average
Daily Volume in excess of 2,000 vehicles, consideration must be given to the
relationship between the highway traffic noise and the proposed development. In
order to alleviate excessive highway noise impacts, the City Council, in
consultation with the Illinois Department of Transportation, may require the
developer to conform with additional setback requirements or provide adequate
buffering.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-15 EASEMENTS AND OUTLOTS.
   (A)   Easements of not less than ten feet in width shall be provided on each
side of all rear lot lines, and alongside lot lines where necessary for storm
and sanitary sewers, gas, water and other mains, and for electric and telephone
lines, or for other public utilities. Easements of greater width may be
required along or across lots when necessary for the extension of sewer mains
or other utilities, or where both water and sewer lines are located in the same
easement. A two-foot easement shall be required on one side of and adjacent to
an alley to accommodate pole lines.
   (B)   Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall be established along
any natural drainage channel and in such other locations as may be necessary to
provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets, alleys and all other
portions of the subdivision. The location and minimum widths of such easements
shall be approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The maintenance of drainage easements shall be the responsibility of
the lot owner or adjacent lot owners. No obstruction shall be placed or erected
in any easement for utility or drainage purposes, and the proper authorities
shall have free access to and use of the easements at any time.
   (D)   The maintenance of retention or detention storage areas shall be the
responsibility of the owner(s) of the property. If the city is required to
maintain the retention or detention storage area, the cost thereof shall be
paid by the owner(s) and shall be a lien against the property.
   (E)   A minimum 15-foot wide utility easement is required on either side of
the roadway as measured from the right-of-way line towards the lot.
   (F)   An easement approved by the city is required for a utility access road
installed after March 5, 2012.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1597, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-16 BLOCKS.
   (A)   No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet or less than 500 feet in
length.
   (B)   All blocks, whenever it is deemed essential by the City Council to
provide access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers and other community
facilities, shall have a crosswalk with a right-of-way of a least ten feet in
width near the center of the block.
   (C)   The length, width and shape of blocks shall be determined with due
regard to building sites, land use, zoning requirements, access, safety and
convenience.
   (D)   Where a subdivision adjoins an area service or higher type roadway,
the greater dimension of the block shall generally front or back upon such
highway to avoid unnecessary multiplicity of points of ingress or egress.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-17 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot area and dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the
applicable district of the city zoning code.
   (B)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory and desirable building sites, properly related to
topography and the character of surrounding development.
   (C)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
right-of-way lines and radial to curved street right-of-way lines, except where
a variation of this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
   (D)   All remnants of lots below minimum lot area size left over after
subdividing a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowing to remain as unusable land.
   (E)   Lots which cannot be served by either a public or private sanitary
sewer or a public water system shall comply with the applicable provisions of
the city zoning code.
   (F)   Lots with double frontage should be avoided where possible. Corner
lots and lots with double frontage shall have extra dimension sufficient to
permit the establishment of front building or setback lines on the adjoining
streets.
   (G)   The subdividing or development of the land shall be such as to provide
each lot or parcel of land with access to a public street approved by the city.
   (H)   Lots shall be graded by the developer so as to provide drainage away
from building locations.
   (I)   In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, wetlands, steep slopes, watercourses,
historic spots, or similar conditions, and plans adjusted to preserve those
which will add attractiveness, safety and stability to the proposed
development.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-18 PUBLIC RESERVATIONS.
   When a school board, park board or the governing body of a city goes on
record as desiring to purchase ground in the subdivision for a school, park or
other public purpose, such area shall be reserved for acquisition within a 12-
month period. If, within this 12-month period, an acquisition price cannot be
agreed upon or condemnation proceedings have not been instituted, the owner or
subdivider may subdivide, sell, or dispose of said ground.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-3-19 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   In areas where on-site sewage disposal systems will be installed, the size
and relative location shall be governed by the Illinois Department of Public
Health and Monroe County Regulations or other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-3-20 (RESERVED)
§ 34-3-21 DRAINAGE.
   This section prescribes general requirements to be followed in layout of the
subdivision or development and subsequent design and construction. More
specific requirements are in subsequent sections of Code.
   (A)   General drainage. Design requirements pertaining to drainage systems
other than detention or retention facilities are in subsequent sections of
Code. The following requirements shall be considered and addressed in initial
planning stages in addition to those of Municipal Code addressing development
in areas prone to flooding:
      (1)   No tract or portion of a tract shall be approved for development if
it is subject to periodic flooding such that lots or pavements and other
infrastructure are periodically inundated. This extends to jurisdictional and
municipal-jurisdictional drainageways and base flood areas.
      (2)   All inhabitable shelters including basements shall be a minimum of
one foot above jurisdictional and municipal-jurisdictional drainageway flood
elevations (the base flood elevation at the 100-year event) in the vicinity of
the subdivision or development regardless of whether said flood elevations
extend into the tract, and a minimum of one foot above water surfaces
associated with a 100-year event occurring in conduits and drainageways. All
driving surfaces including private parking lots, shall also be a minimum of two
feet above jurisdictional flood elevations.
      (3)   Dedicated streets and other public accessways shall remain passable
to vehicles such that no greater than nine inches of depth of flow at the 100-
year storm event shall be allowed to discharge via public accessways as
mentioned and said depth shall not remain for more than two hours.
      (4)   All areas and features requiring state, federal, or other local
review and approval shall be identified prior to the preliminary plat approval
process.
      (5)   Storm runoff from areas upstream and downstream of the subdivision
or development must be accommodated by systems proposed, in accordance with
requirements of this code. In general, runoff from upstream shall be passed
through unimpeded in terms of backwater and storage. Storage utilized by
constrictions downstream shall remain. Future development upstream and
downstream, private or public (by the city), that is pending at the time of the
subdivision or development approval process initiation shall be accommodated in
design.
      (6)   For all drainage design the most conservative interpretations will
be made, including but not limited to: accounting for conduit systems for
pending or existing upstream development such that the most conservative
discharges reach the subdivision or development being considered and accounting
for existing and future backwater effects downstream. The city reserves the
right to require application of the most conservative interpretations in terms
of drainage design for the subdivision or development being considered. The
city also reserves the right to require drainage calculations extending beyond
the subdivision or development being considered and impacting the same.
      (7)   Underground, or buried, conduit systems shall remain generally
perpendicular at street crossings to facilitate future maintenance.
      (8)   All single family residential roof and foundation drains, including
sump pits and pumps, shall be discharged to the front and rear of lots and not
to side lot lines. Roof and foundation drains, including sump pits and pumps,
shall drain to daylight with the opening at least 15 feet from the foundation
and at least 5 feet before the right-of-way or sidewalk.
      (9)   All multi-family, commercial, and industrial roof and foundation
drains not utilizing sump pits and pumps shall be discharged, via buried
conduit, into underground conduit systems including storm sewers and culverts
and not above or across ground surfaces in any fashion.
      (10)   The city has no maintenance responsibility for, nor any
responsibility to, remediate backups in above ground or buried conduits from
their taps to sewer conduits to their connections at the buildings draining
storm runoff via roof drains or sump pit drains that might occur due to high
water surfaces in City owned and maintained conduits and drainageways.
      (11)   All developments’ roof and parking area runoff must pass through
detention systems, on-site within a particular lot or through a common
detention area, before exiting the tract boundaries.
      (12)   All commercial and industrial tracts’ roof and parking area runoff
served by a common detention or retention area for a particular subdivision
shall pass through buried conduit within the tract before entering into the
public storm sewer system at an inlet or manhole.
      (13)   Sinkholes shall not be utilized for receiving new storm sewer
system discharges.
      (14)   Swales and grading. Runoff from lots shall be directed to piping
or drainage swales so that adjoining lots or properties are not impacted by the
runoff. Yard swales or grading will not be maintained, re-graded or re-
established by the city.
   (B)   Treatment of detention or retention facilities. These facilities
require additional planning. Design requirements for these are in subsequent
sections of Code. The following requirements shall be considered and addressed
in initial planning stages:
      (1)   Additional definition of detention facilities is required as even
inlet intakes can serve to detain flows. For the purpose of design and
definition in this Code, inlet and culvert intakes and conduits within public
areas will not be considered as contributing to detention volume unless
included in the designated easement for the detention and/or retention facility
which shall include all surface area inundated at the peak water surface at the
100-year event for the individual system(s).
      (2)   Detention or retention facilities shall not be located in the path
of an existing ditch, stream, jurisdictional and municipal-jurisdictional
drainageways, or base flood areas so as to create higher backwater and reduce
storage for incoming discharges. Side-channel facilities are discouraged, but
when necessary, the same backwater and loss of storage criteria for
jurisdictional and municipal-jurisdictional drainageways shall apply.
      (3)   Existing ponds and lakes can be utilized as detention facilities
with drainage calculations that show there is sufficient storage above normal
pool elevations for those that are not located in the path of an existing
ditch, stream, jurisdictional and municipal-jurisdictional drainageways, or
base flood areas. For those existing ponds and lakes that are located as such,
no additional water surface increase will be allowed above existing normal pool
elevations and additional excavation will be required to limit the described
increase. The developer may be required to reconfigure existing storage and
outlet configurations depending on the needs of the subdivision.
      (4)   All facilities requiring permitting by the IDNR shall be designed
prior to submittal to the IDNR. The developer may obtain classification by the
IDNR prior to design, but this will not be considered final until design plans
are submitted to the IDNR. All submittals to the IDNR and other agencies
involved shall be copied to the city.
      (5)   The city will not undertake the maintenance of detention or
retention facilities.
      (6)   Underground detention systems are allowed for developments.
However, public drainage systems including drainageways with surface
discharges, but primarily conduits within right-of-way and easement, shall only
discharge to or pass discharges through detention or retention facilities that
are of an open basin design, i.e. earthen slopes accessible by vehicles, and
not of an underground type. This is due to the potential high costs for
emergency maintenance or expansion.
      (7)   All detention or retention areas shall be included in easement so
as to allow emergency and general access by the city, to reserve the right of
the city to expand or make improvements to the facility, and to reserve the
right to discharge additional runoff into said facility. Notwithstanding
anything contained herein, the owner of the land involved is first responsible
for maintenance and improvements to the facility.
      (8)   Access shall be provided to the outlet or pumping station area of
the facility via easements and an access road, as prescribed in the city
construction details. This reservation may also be used by the city for
electrical distribution to any pumping station and for all other utilities.
      (9)   Detention or retention facilities shall be designed for the entire
tract being platted. In the event that phased construction and platting will
occur, a separate design just for the tracts being platted shall be required.
The developer may construct and/or plat the full facilities with initial
phases, however, the outlet design shall coincide with the separate design
requirements.
      (10)   Storm water discharges from commercial, industrial, and multi-
family lots or tracts will be treated differently than for those that are
strictly single-family due to their potential magnitude and impact on surface
flows within street and backlot areas. When said discharges enter into a public
conduit system, with or without detention on the lot(s) or tract(s) themselves,
said conduit system shall be designed to accommodate the 100-year event
discharge from said lot(s) or tract(s) with the same freeboard and capacity
requirements as for the same system normally designed to accommodate the 10-
year event discharges. All conduit serving the described land use shall be
designed to accommodate the 100-year event. Drainage calculations, primarily
hydraulic grade lines, shall be provided that show what will occur in conduits
and connected inlets that enter into the described 100-year system(s) serving
single-family land use at coincident 100-year events in both systems.
      (11)   Outlets from detention systems on individual lots or development
tracts that are not for public use and those that serve only a few lots within
an entire development (public) must be connected to appropriately sized public
conduit that extends to each lot being served. Outlets from described systems
must connect to the public system via buried conduit. When outlets from
development tract detention systems are connected to existing public systems
that were not designed to accommodate lower frequency events, release of
discharges from said tract at all storm frequencies shall not exceed those of
pre-development conditions at the 10-year frequency.
      (12)   Parking lot and roof top detention systems will not be allowed
except in business areas where buildings are in close proximity to each other
as deemed such by the City.
      (13)   Pre-development discharges from the subdivision or development
shall remain unchanged or reduced in terms of type and quantity of flow and/or
velocity at every point of discharge along the boundary of the tract including
existing sheet flow conditions at all storm event frequencies. Detention
facilities shall be installed to effect this. Note the exception to this is
that buried conduit connections to existing public systems from detention
system outlets of development tracts shall discharge only pre-development flows
at the ten-year frequency.
      (14)   Discharge from a tract cannot exit the boundary, travel in public
ROW and drainage systems, and then be routed back into onsite detention or
detention serving several lots of the tract unless the described system is part
of a new development meeting other Code requirements.
      (15)   Proposed detention and retention facilities including outlet
structures shall be constructed before any proposed grading begins.
      (16)   In the event that downstream roadways, right-of-way, properties,
conduit systems, or combinations of the aforementioned are at such an elevation
such that pre-development discharges to said areas cause periodic inundation
such that roadway and continuous access are disrupted periodically or there is
inundation of conduit systems adversely affecting downstream properties, the
City will require the developer to secure easements and/or additional measures
to effect minimum downward slope requirements of this Code from the outlet
points of the proposed subdivision or development.
   (C)   Treatment at development boundaries. The following requirements shall
be considered and addressed in initial planning stages.
      (1)    At all locations along development boundaries where areas drain
into the development, an area around the drainage structure, culvert or inlet,
equal to at least 1% of the intercepted drainage area shall be set-aside and
placed in drainage and utility easement.
      (2)    The drainage structure within the set-aside area noted in division
(C)(1) of this section shall be positioned at the downstream end of the set-
aside area.
      (3)    In the event of phased construction and platting where drainage
systems discharge off of development boundaries, tailwater within the
downstream drainageways shall be considered in the design of the immediate
systems. In the event that tailwater is not considered in the design,
subsequent connected drainage systems shall be designed such that their water
surface at discharge points is equal to depths calculated with immediate
development.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
APPENDIX: ILLUSTRATIONS
[To_view_images_34-3-8(C)_-_(D),_click_here.]
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-98)
[To_view_image_34-3-10,_click_here.]
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-98)
ARTICLE IV: IMPROVEMENT PLANS
Section
Division I: Procedure
   
34-4-1   Submittal of improvement plans
   
34-4-2   Permits
   
34-4-3   Approval; improvement plans
   
34-4-4   Applicability of standards; improvement plans
   
34-4-5   (Reserved)
   
34-4-5.1   (Reserved)
Division II: General Requirements
   
34-4-6   Requirements for improvement plans
Division III: Minimum Standards of Improvement
   
34-4-7   General statement
   
34-4-8   Transmission lines on improvement plans
   
34-4-9   Earthwork
   
34-4-10   Public utility engineering requirements
   
34-4-11   Sanitary sewers
   
34-4-12   Water
   
34-4-13   Fire hydrants
   
34-4-14   Electrical power, telephone and cable antenna television (CATV)
   
34-4-15   Drainage requirements
   
34-4-16   Early completion of detention facilities
   
34-4-17   Curb and gutter requirements
   
34-4-18   Concrete and bituminous pavements
   
34-4-19   Reference monuments
   
34-4-20   Sidewalks
   
34-4-21   Intersections; 3-way stops and 4-way stops
   
34-4-22   Driveway pavement
   
34-4-23   Bike paths and trails
   
34-4-24   Street lighting improvements
   
34-4-25   Signs
   
34-4-26   Erosion control
   
34-4-27   (Reserved)
   
34-4-28   Natural gas and other pipelines
DIVISION I: PROCEDURE
§ 34-4-1 SUBMITTAL OF IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   After the preliminary plat for the proposed subdivision has been
approved, the required number of copies of improvement plans and calculations
shall be submitted. Improvement plans shall be prepared in accordance with the
applicable requirements set forth herein.
   (B)   A fee, as prescribed in
Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances, shall be paid to the city with each
improvement plan submittal.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-2 PERMITS.
   Three copies of permits required from state, federal and local agencies
(e.g. IEPA sewer and water permits, NDPES permit, 404 permits, and the like)
not required for the preliminary plat submittal shall be submitted with the
improvement plans for appropriate signatures.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-3 APPROVAL; IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   The Subdivision Administrator, City Engineer and Director of Public
Works shall review the improvement plans, and shall make a recommendation to
the City Council to approve or disapprove the plans.
   (B)   The improvement plan approval shall expire six months after the date
of approval unless the subdivider commences the improvement work on the site
within such period.
   (C)   Performance of work necessary to complete construction and
installation of the required improvements called for by the improvement plans
approved by the city and other facilities to be dedicated to the city, other
public body, or approved private legal entity, shall be completed within two
years of the date of approval of the improvement plans, unless such time is
extended by written agreement between the subdivider and the city. If the
improvements are not completed within two years of approval of the improvement
plans, or the extended time if granted by the City Council, the approval of the
improvement plans shall expire and be of no further force or effect. Upon
expiration, all fees paid by the subdivider shall be forfeited.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1219, passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1527,
passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-4 APPLICABILITY OF STANDARDS; IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   The standards and specifications of the subdivision code shall apply to
improvement plans as follows:
   (A)   The provisions of the subdivision code in effect on the date of
approval of the preliminary plat shall apply to the development for improvement
plans approved within one year of the approval of the preliminary plat. If an
extension is granted for a single phase development in §
34-3-4(C)(1)(c) above, the provisions of this chapter in effect on the date the
preliminary plat was approved shall continue to apply to the development.
   (B)   When a subdivider has been given permission to develop the development
in phases and does not obtain approval of all improvement plans for all phases
of the development within one year of the date of approval of the preliminary
plat, the improvement plans must comply with the requirements set forth in
Division III of Article IV of this chapter that are in effect at the time the
improvement plans are submitted to the city.
   (C)   If improvement plan approval expires per §
34-4-3(C) or (D) above, improvement plans submitted for those improvements not
completed shall comply with the requirements set forth in Division III of
Article IV of this chapter that are in effect at the time those improvement
plans are re-submitted to the city.
(Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-5 (RESERVED).
§ 34-4-5.1 (RESERVED).
DIVISION II: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 34-4-6 REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   The developer shall notify the Director of Public Works or Subdivision
Administrator 24 hours in advance before each improvement is installed at the
development.
   (B)   Improvement plans shall be prepared on an exhibit measuring 24 by 36
inches and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Title page, which shall include a key map showing the relationship
of the area to be subdivided to the project area, and which shall reflect areas
of the project area previously subdivided plus adjacent streets.
      (2)   North arrow and graphic scale.
      (3)   Title block showing name and address of developer and engineering
firm, as well as the engineer’s seal.
      (4)   One or more bench marks, in or near the subdivision, to which the
subdivision is referenced. The elevation shall be based on the sea level datum.
      (5)   List of the standards and specifications followed, citing volume,
section, page or other references.
         (a)   Sanitary sewers, indicating:
            1.   Location;
            2.   Size;
            3.   Manholes (spaced apart not more than 400 feet);
            4.   Invert elevations at manholes.
         (b)   Culverts, indicating:
            1.   Type;
            2.   Location;
            3.   Size;
            4.   Invert elevation.
         (c)   Water main layout, indicating:
            1.   Location;
            2.   Size;
            3.   Looped pattern where practicable;
            4.   Fire hydrants, spaced apart not more than 400 feet from any
lot line and proposed as necessary for fire protection by the Waterloo
Community Fire Protection District;
            5.   Valves, indicating:
               a.    Valve manhole; or
               b.    Valve box.
         (d)    Storm sewer layout, indicating:
            1.   Location;
            2.   Catch basins at intervals not more than 300 feet;
            3.   Storm water is not carried across or around any intersection;
            4.   Surface water drainage pattern for individual lot and block.
      (6)   Paving details, including the location of all Type A expansion
joints.
      (7)   Details of streets, including locations of curb ramps, existing and
proposed sanitary sewers, water lines, drainage channels, swales, and storm
sewers.
      (8)   Plans and profiles of streets, storm and sanitary sewers, water
lines and other improvements. The plans and profiles shall be drawn at a scale
not more than 100 feet to the inch (1 inch = 100 feet) horizontal; and one inch
equals ten feet (1 inch = 10 feet) vertical.
      (9)   Plans of utility access roads required after March 5, 2012.
      (10)   Any structural or non-structural measure proposed to prevent soil
erosion and sediment control must be shown or included in a statement
accompanying the improvement plans.
      (11)   Existing and proposed survey monuments on street plans or on the
proposed final plat.
      (12)   Lowest floor elevations to be shown on plans. One and one-half
feet above curb level is suggested for first floor elevation.
      (13)   Final grading plan shall be incorporated into improvement plans
with proposed and existing contours shown at one-foot contour intervals.
      (14)   All required structural details for bridges, culverts, nonstandard
pump station wet wells, manholes, and the like shall be included in the
improvement plans. The design drawings for precast wet wells, manholes,
culverts, headwalls, and the like shall be referenced IDOT standards included
in the plans or standard shop drawings submitted during construction. All
drawings for bridges and nonstandard opening culverts shall be signed by an
Illinois registered structural engineer.
      (15)   The signature and seal of an Illinois registered professional
engineer.
      (16)   A cost estimate of the proposed improvements prepared by a
professional engineer registered in the State of Illinois.
      (17)   Certification by the owners in fee as follows:
         [Developer] hereby certifies that the drainage facilities for [X, name
of development] shall be constructed according to the design presented in these
plans and in the drainage report. I understand that the City of Waterloo does
not and will not assume liability for the drainage facilities designed and or
certified by my engineer. I understand that the City of Waterloo reviews
drainage plans but cannot, on behalf of [X, name of development], guarantee
that final drainage design review will absolve [developer] and/or their
successors and/or assigns the future liability for improper design.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1378, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 1527,
passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1597, passed 3-5-2012; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-
2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
DIVISION III: MINIMUM STANDARDS OF IMPROVEMENT
§ 34-4-7 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   Utility and street improvements shall be provided by the subdivider in
each new subdivision in accordance with the standards and requirements
described in the following sections. The requirements set forth below shall be
considered as minimum requirements and nothing contained herein shall be
construed to mean that the subdivider cannot construct or provide improvements
of a higher type.
   (B)   All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use within a
subdivision, shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum requirements herein below set forth and in a manner which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all the streets, alleys and public grounds in
the entire subdivision, including any such work which may be necessary in order
to provide adequate and satisfactory drainage along the side of any existing
public street which lies adjacent to the subdivision.
   (C)    In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and all other
improvements to be dedicated to the city shall be designed and constructed
according to the IDOT Standard Specifications, Highway Standards, The LAP
Manual, Drainage Manual and Appendix, Bureau of Design and Environment Manuals,
department memos, and other manuals adopted by IDOT, the Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, IEPA
standards, other referenced codes and this code, including the City of Waterloo
Construction Details and the soils report required by 34-4-9 of this code, as
the same are in effect at the time provided in this code. If the IDOT Standard
Specifications, Highway Standards, LAP Manual, Drainage Manual and Appendix,
Bureau of Design and Environment Manuals, department memos, or other manuals
adopted by IDOT conflict with the City of Waterloo Construction Details, the
latter shall be the standard that must be followed, except as otherwise
provided in this code.
   (D)   Required testing and inspection, as deemed necessary by the city at
the time of construction, shall be performed by the city or its testing
representative, and the costs for such testing shall be paid by the subdivider.
All labor and material costs for initial and remediation testing during
construction as deemed necessary by the city shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider and paid by the subdivider.
   (E)   Testing for work items that can be damaged by weather, traffic or any
other cause, such as soil compaction tests, shall be performed and approved by
the Subdivision Administrator prior to associated construction, otherwise such
improvements will not be accepted. Construction of work items shown on the
improvement plans shall be performed so as no more than 20 working days shall
elapse between associated construction procedures, such as subgrade work and
subsequent surfacing. The subdivider’s guarantee and responsibility for work
for two years after acceptance of roadway, sidewalk, utility, drainage and
other improvements intended for use by, or benefit for, the city, the public,
or a receiving entity, which improvements are hereinafter sometimes referred to
as subdivision improvements, shall not be terminated or otherwise affected by
the city not requiring particular testing at the time of installation of such
subdivision improvements. A subdivider shall be responsible for repair to
subdivision improvements caused by construction traffic into any new
development, and the subdivider shall be responsible for repair of all
subdivision improvements for two years after initial approval of improvements
thereof by the city.
   (F)   Subdivision improvements shall not be accepted by the city if the city
determines that such improvements are not in conformity with improvement plans,
applicable standards and specifications, including the provisions of this code,
and other local, state and federal laws and regulations that may be brought to
the attention of the city. Acceptance of maintenance responsibility of
subdivision improvements shall not relieve a subdivider from the subdivider’s
repair obligation created by this code or otherwise. The subdivider’s
obligation to repair subdivision improvements includes, among other things,
taking such actions as are appropriate to correct defective materials and
workmanship and replace such subdivision improvements that have not withstood
the use for which such improvements were intended. Acceptance of maintenance
responsibility by the city does not relieve the developer from repair
responsibility as provided in this code or otherwise by law. Maintenance
responsibility by the city, after accepting such responsibility, and during the
period for which the subdivider is obligated to make repairs under this code,
contemplate such activities as snow removal from streets, flushing of sewer
lines, cutting grass in areas transferred to the city, and similar activities
that go along with the use of subdivision improvements that are in sound
condition and in a good state of repair. The performance of any maintenance by
the city with respect to subdivision improvements, such as snow plowing of
streets, before the city has accepted maintenance responsibility for
subdivision improvements, shall not relieve the subdivider from the
subdivider’s responsibility to maintain or repair subdivision improvements.
   (G)   When a subdivision contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water
supply system, park area, or subdivision improvements or other physical
facilities that have not been dedicated to and accepted by an existing public
entity, adequate provision shall be made by the subdivider for the continuous
maintenance, supervision, operation, and reconstruction of such facilities by
either the subdivider or the lot owners in the subdivision, subject to
applicable laws and local, state and federal regulations, if any.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1219,
passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-
2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-8 TRANSMISSION LINES ON IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   All development applications and Improvement Plans, in addition to any other
requirement provided for in this code, shall provide the following if the land
to be developed contains a transmission line:
   (A)   Location, size, operating pressure, location class as defined by the
United States Department of Transportation, in the State of Illinois and
operating hoop stress percentage of specified minimum yield strength of all
transmission lines located upon the subject property and as surveyed by a
professional land surveyor licensed in the State of Illinois;
   (B)   The location of all on-site pipeline easements and rights-of-way of
any kind;
   (C)   The approximate location, based upon approximate field measurements
supplied by the respective pipeline owner, and the size, operating pressure,
location class as defined by the United States Department of Transportation, in
the State of Illinois and operating hoop stress in percentage of specified
minimum yield strength of all off-site pipeline within 75 feet of the subject
property;
   (D)   The approximate location of all off-site pipeline easements and
rights-of-way within 75 feet of the subject property as depicted on tax maps or
other documents accepted by the City Council;
   (E)   Cross-sections and profiles of the pipeline in areas of disturbance
within 75 feet of the pipeline, showing existing and proposed conditions and
improvements.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-9 EARTHWORK.
   The developer shall employ a professional engineer registered in Illinois to
prepare a soils report consisting of soil borings, classification of existing
soils along the proposed roadway, recommendations on the adequacy of existing
soils for roadway construction, recommendations on material to be used for
structural fill under roadways from the site or from off-site, and
recommendations on applicability of lime modification, if lime-modified soil is
utilized for the sub-base. All topsoil beneath proposed roadway embankment
shall be removed to a minimum depth of four inches or deeper, as required by
the soils report. All structural fill used for embankments beneath roadways and
sidewalk areas shall be free of topsoil. Required compaction shall conform to
requirements outlined in the IDOT Standard Specifications in effect at the time
the preliminary plat is submitted for approval, except as otherwise provided in
this code. The maximum lift thickness shall be six inches. Roadway construction
shall not proceed until required compaction has been achieved and acceptable
documentation has been received by the city. Embankment and cut areas shall not
have slopes exceeding 33%. Sufficient fill and cut shall be provided behind
curb and gutter in embankment areas to contain the curb and gutter and to
provide for future sidewalks. Slopes and dimensions for these areas shall be in
accordance with the street classification requirements. Erosion and sediment
control and tree removal and conservation of vegetation requirements of this
Article IV shall be adhered to. All earthwork should be substantially completed
prior to installation of utilities. Grading of areas within rights-of-way shall
conform to requirements outlined in this code (e.g. locations of future
sidewalks).
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-10 PUBLIC UTILITY ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed water and sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the
minimum requirements and recommendations of the Environmental Protection Agency
of the State of Illinois, Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction, city codes and any other applicable code or standard. When a
proposed subdivision is reasonably accessible to a public sewer system and/or
water distribution system, the subdivider shall provide the subdivision with a
complete sanitary sewer system and/or water distribution system to be connected
to the proper public system.
   (B)   Whenever the subdivider provides a private system of sanitary sewers
and a treatment plant, such system and plant shall conform to all standards,
specifications and requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
and shall be approved by said agency and the city.
   (C)   Whenever private sewage systems are utilized, the system shall comply
with applicable city regulations, county recommendations or recommendations of
the Illinois Department of Public Health, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Utilities should be installed prior to roadway construction, or ducts
and casing pipes should be installed prior to roadway construction and utility
installation.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-11 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   When sanitary sewers are provided, each single-family or duplex unit
in the subdivision shall be provided at the property line with a connection to
the private or public sanitary sewer system. The construction of the sewer
system shall conform to the approved plans and specifications, and all work
should be properly inspected and approved by the city. Sewage collection lines
shall be approved by the city before installation.
   (B)   Each lateral shall extend a minimum of three feet above the curb line
and shall terminate as shown on the City of Waterloo Construction Details.
   (C)   Lift station details shall be shown in the plans. Lift stations shall
have emergency power hook-up capability. Emergency generators shall be required
if the lift station is located in a delineated Karst Recharge Area.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances shall comply with the
requirements of IEPA and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois and the City of Waterloo Construction Details. All
proposed connections with existing systems shall be properly designed with the
capacities of the existing systems taken into consideration.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-12 WATER.
   When provided, each lot in the subdivision shall be provided at the property
line with a connection to the private or public water system. The construction
of the water system shall conform to the approved plans and specifications, and
all work shall be properly inspected and approved by the city. Gate valves, air
release valves, cap and block details, bedding, and water tracer line details
shall be shown on the plans. The subdivision developer shall pay all costs for
installing the water system shown on the approved plans in accordance with the
requirements of the city. Water mains shall be installed in easements adjoining
roadways unless City Council warrants otherwise. Water lines and appurtenances
shall comply with the requirements of IEPA, Standard Specifications for Water
and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois, and the City of Waterloo Construction
Details. All proposed connections with existing systems shall be properly
designed with the capacities of the existing systems taken into consideration.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-13 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   When a public or private water distribution system is provided, fire
hydrants and accompanying gate valves shall be installed by the subdivider as
part of the water distribution system. Installation of hydrants shall be
accomplished in such manner that each lot is within 400 feet of the fire
hydrant when measured along the centerline of the right-of-way. No fire hydrant
shall be placed on a main smaller than six inches in diameter. Hydrants
installed shall be as described in the City of Waterloo Construction Details.
Hydrant details shall be shown in the plans.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-14 ELECTRICAL POWER, TELEPHONE AND CABLE ANTENNA TELEVISION (CATV).
   Telephone and CATV service lines shall be placed underground throughout the
subdivision. The conduit or cables shall be located within easements or public
rights-of-way in a manner which will not conflict with other underground
services. All transformers and terminal boxes shall be located so as not to be
unsightly or hazardous to the public. The location of such services shall be in
easements adjoining roadways unless otherwise approved by City Council.
Utilities should be installed prior to roadway construction or ducts and casing
pipes should be installed prior to roadway construction and utility
installation.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-15 DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   The design of storm water systems, culverts, curb and gutter, inlets,
ditches, and other drainage facilities and improvements in subdivision and
individual, commercial or industrial developments shall be in compliance with
the requirements of this Code and provisions of the current edition of the
Illinois Department of Transportation Drainage Manual, hereinafter referred to
as “the Drainage Manual” with the following modifications:
   (A)   Design calculations shall be submitted to the City at the time of
Improvement Plan or development submittals, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Cover sheet titled “Drainage Calculations” with the name of the
subdivision or development;
      (2)   Signature and seal of a licensed professional engineer in Illinois;
      (3)   Certification as follows signed and dated by the licensed
professional engineer:
         I hereby certify that this report for the drainage of (X, name of
development) was prepared by me or under by direct supervision in accordance
with all applicable City of Waterloo ordinances, standards, and manuals for the
owners thereof. I understand that the City of Waterloo does not and will not
assume liability for drainage facilities designed by others.
      (4)   Table of contents with each sheet numbered;
      (5)   Description of the project, including existing conditions, proposed
features, methodology, and unique aspects;
      (6)   Map of existing drainage area with north arrow, scale, contours at
vertical intervals no greater than five feet, boundaries, existing inlets,
culverts, and storm sewers, and other topography. Existing, upstream and
downstream areas beyond survey limits may be depicted with other mapping,
however, sufficient topographic detail must be shown on these, as deemed
necessary by the city;
      (7)   Proposed drainage area map with similar information as the existing
map;
      (8)   Runoff characteristics including runoff coefficients or curve
numbers for each existing and proposed drainage area and time of concentration
calculations, or other applicable hydrologic characteristics depending on the
methodology utilized. These should also include time of travel for existing
conduits or other channelized systems affecting the development, upstream and/
or downstream;
      (9)   Gutter capacity calculations;
      (10)   Inlet and bypass calculations;
      (11)   Conduit capacity and hydraulic grade line calculations;
      (12)   HEC-RAS calculations, if applicable, including a map showing
sections and stationing, graphical printouts of existing and proposed sections,
flow and boundary data, and tabular results clearly indicating stationing and
water surfaces;
      (13)    Detention/retention calculations;
      (14)   Calculations of how Base Flood elevations were determined.
   (B)   Improvement plans. All proposed drainage easements, storm sewers,
inlets, manholes, grate and frame details, curb and gutter details, pipe sizes,
invert and lid elevations, detention storage areas, and other drainage
improvements are to be identified on the plans. Drainage arrows denoting
proposed flows and ditches shall be included in the plans, typically on the
overall site layout showing contours and proposed and existing inlets and
culverts. Elevations of proposed ditches shall be shown on the plans as
necessary to ensure constructability of proposed drainage systems. The complete
construction details for all drainage systems shall be shown on the plans.
   (C)    Determination of areas, surface characteristics, and conditions.
Grading plans shall correspond to the drainage areas prepared in the report.
Each drainage area shall have its own hydrologic and hydraulic calculations.
Generally:
      (1)   Residential, single and multi-family.
         (a)   In a residential subdivision or area, either single family or
multi-family (duplexes, condos, or villas), excepting apartment complexes, each
lot’s primary drainage area shall be planned to drain towards the street,
divided such that estimated roof peak defines the innermost edge of a
trapezoidally shaped drainage area. Streetside corners of the trapezoidally
shaped area shall terminate at the lot’s property lines.
         (b)   In any type subdivision or development, side and back lot line
swales and ditches shall be shown on the grading plans in the Improvement Plans
with proposed contours. Grading shall be such that runoff from any individual
lot or tract is directed away from adjoining properties (see also side lot line
easement requirements in other sections of this Code).
         (c)   Side lot line swales and ditches shall generally be directed
away from street curbs and inlets. In the event this is not possible, the
maximum allowable surface runoff discharge into the street shall be no greater
than what can be accommodated by the gutter and curb inlets that serve
streetside areas meeting gutter encroachment criteria.
         (d)   In the event side lot line swales and ditches are directed
towards streets and the maximum allowable discharges noted above are exceeded,
storm sewer piping and inlets of appropriate size and spacing (at that point in
the street) shall be added the entire length of said lot line. Said piping
shall be connected to piping along the street and shall terminate at the back
lot line with either an inlet, end section, or junction (all junctions are
required to be inlets) with contiguous piping system. Inlets at the back of
sidewalk that have openings towards the side lot lines will not be allowed.
         (e)   All surface discharges directed away from streets down side lot
lines shall be in underground conduit the entire length of the side lot line
with an inlet at the upper end (near the street) as a cleanout, if said
discharges exceed three cfs during a ten year event. All discharges from the
drainage areas including street pavement, regardless of magnitude, shall be in
underground conduit down side and back lot lines.
         (f)   For back lot lines and back lot areas, when surface runoff
discharges exceed five cfs of flow or three fps velocity during a ten year
event, storm sewer piping and inlets of appropriate size and spacing shall be
added at the back lot lines from the point of said discharge until said
discharge enters into detention/retention or other piping system.
         (g)   For back lot lines and areas, all incoming discharges in piping
from side lot lines or other areas shall remain in piping down the back lot
line until discharge enters into detention/retention or other piping system.
         (h)   For calculating runoff coefficients or curve numbers, each
single family lot shall have a minimum roof area of 3,000 square feet and a
minimum driveway area of 600 square feet contributing to impervious area. Each
multi-family lot’s runoff characteristics shall be determined on a case-by-case
basis, with impervious area not less than that for each single family lot.
         (i)   Each single family lot’s proposed impervious area runoff
coefficient shall be 0.90 and the pervious area runoff coefficient shall be
0.30 using the rational method. With the SCS TR55 or TR20 methods, curve
numbers comparable to those of the rational method shall be utilized. The
proposed impervious area curve number shall be 98 and the proposed pervious
area curve number shall be for good condition grass cover and the applicable
hydrologic soil groups: 39 for hydrologic soil group A, 61 for group B, 74 for
group C, and 80 for group D.
      (2)   Residential, apartment complexes: The impervious areas for each
apartment complex with off-street parking shall include the planned rooftop
area and parking areas, determined on a case-by-case basis. Impervious area
shall not be less than that for each single family lot and runoff coefficients
and curve numbers shall be comparable to those for single family.
      (3)   Commercial or industrial development. When individual lots of a
subdivision are being developed as commercial or industrial tracts, or when
such tracts are being developed as a separate development other than a
subdivision, with or without large impervious areas such as rooftops and
parking areas, the drainage areas within the tract(s) shall be established on a
case by case basis with the following requirements:
         (a)   Rooftop areas to gutters and roof drains shall be defined and
shown on the drainage maps when the building(s) have previously been designed
or are being designed. Each roof drain shall have its own separate drainage
area.
         (b)   Each inlet and piping intake, such as a flared end section,
shall have its own separate drainage area.
         (c)   The entire proposed industrial or commercial area, except for
low-lying areas near existing or proposed drainageways that will never have
parking lots or structures, shall have a runoff coefficient of 0.90 using the
Rational method and a comparable curve number of 98 with the SCS methods.
      (4)    Drainage area conditions beyond tract.
         (a)   The complete limits of all drainage areas affecting the
subdivision or development, upstream and downstream, shall be determined and
shown on drainage area maps including more complex urbanized areas that have
storm sewer systems.
         (b)   When the development entails and/or abuts agricultural land, the
drainage area maps shall be developed utilizing field surveys of the drainage
areas extending beyond the development boundaries. The city may, at its sole
discretion, require similar field surveys beyond the development, for non-
agricultural lands.
         (c)   When the upstream drainage areas adjoin an existing road or
street that must be improved with widening, curbing, storm sewers, and larger
storm water conduits, as determined necessary by the city, as it abuts the
boundary of the subdivision or development in question, these drainage areas
shall be configured equal to the detail required for those within the
subdivision or development being designed with sub-areas for street inlets and
intakes from larger sub-areas adjoining right-of-way. Future improvements along
said road or street beyond the platted boundaries shall be accounted for at the
same level of detail. This may require estimations of the locations of future
curbing, inlets, and storm sewers. All bypass from inlets within these areas
shall be accounted for and all conduit and drainageways shall be integrated
with those for the new subdivision or development such that hydraulic grade
lines and flows are evaluated with the new subdivision or development.
         (d)   For all other upstream areas, the maximum size of any drainage
sub-area shall be 15 acres for any area that is urbanized or in the process of
becoming urbanized as deemed such by the city. For these areas, representative,
composite runoff coefficients or curve numbers shall be calculated. For those
with storm sewer systems, short times of concentration shall be utilized. For
urbanizing areas, runoff coefficients or curve numbers for comparable land
usage shall be applied, as well as short times of concentration in anticipation
of future storm sewer systems.
         (e)   In situations where the upstream drainage areas pass through
bridges or culverts, these structures shall be ignored as these could be
upgraded in the future. Similarly, upstream ponds, lakes, and detention systems
attenuation shall be ignored.
         (f)   Drainageways and conduit systems passing into or through a
proposed subdivision or development, and those downstream, shall be modeled as
flowing at or above capacity regardless of the storm events being applied
within the proposed subdivision or development. The maximum size of any
drainage sub-area shall be 15 acres and runoff characteristics shall be as for
the upstream areas.
         (g)   All existing constrictions on drainageways and conduit systems
downstream of the proposed subdivision or development shall be modeled to
remain in place in establishing proposed drainage conditions of outfalls, lot
elevations, created head of new structures (and associated freeboard), and
similar feature. It is noted that this approach conflicts with establishing
jurisdictional drainageways’ water surface elevations and thus would require
separate calculations beyond those required for establishing jurisdictional
drainageways’ water surface elevations.
      (5)   Runoff coefficients and curve numbers. The pre- and post-
development runoff coefficients for agricultural ground including but not
limited to, pasture and row crop ground, and other areas with grass or woodland
cover shall be 0.30 (grass cover), using the rational method. The coefficients
for gravel areas shall be 0.90 and those for all impervious surfaces including
but not limited to roofs, driveways, patios, and paved areas (either asphalt or
concrete) shall be 0.90. With the SCS TR55 or TR20 methods, curve numbers
comparable to those of the rational method shall be utilized. Curve number
values of 98 shall be used for areas with rational method runoff coefficients
of 0.90, as prescribed herein. For agricultural ground described, the following
curve numbers shall be used: 39 for hydrologic soil group A, 61 for group B, 74
for group C, and 80 for group D.
      (6)   Sheet flow. Sheet, or overland flow, as defined by various
hydrologic methods shall be limited to 300 feet.
      (7)   Sag areas. At sag inlets along streets there shall be separate
drainage sub-areas delineated either side of said inlets for checking allowable
gutter encroachment.
   (D)   Hydrology.
      (1)   The hydrologic methods considered applicable for particular size
drainage areas as noted in the IDOT Drainage Manual shall be utilized. The
Rational Method shall not be used for sizing bridges, culverts, and other
conduits intercepting runoff from municipal-jurisdictional areas and areas
larger than municipal-jurisdictional areas. When a contributing drainage area
to a drainage structure warrants use of what will be described as more
intensive hydrologic methods such as the SCS TR-20 or TR-55, the USACoE’s HEC-
1 (HEC-HMS), or the USGS Regression Equations (most current), the designer has
two options for tailwater inputs for smaller systems within or adjoining the
subdivision or development that do not require the more intensive hydrologic
methods: (1) use the water surfaces generated by the more intensive methods in
sizing described smaller systems at appropriate storm frequencies, or, (2) re-
calculate the runoff that warrants use of the more intensive hydrologic methods
using less intensive methods such as the rational method and use these
resulting water surfaces in sizing described smaller systems at appropriate
storm frequencies. Note that the aforementioned option (2) shall not cause the
design of structures or conduits requiring the more intensive hydrologic
methods to be based on the less intensive methods.
      (2)   With use of TR-20 methodology, which is encouraged as it
facilitates estimation of detention/retention requirements and can be used for
both smaller areas within the subdivision or development as well as those
requiring created head calculations, the ISWS’s Circular 172 and Bulletin 70
data shall be utilized. The critical duration of storm shall be determined with
trial runs, for a representative drainage sub-area within the new subdivision
or development and this duration may be used for other similar sub-areas within
the new subdivision or development. For areas beyond the new subdivision or
development, unless these are similar to those within the new subdivision or
development, separate trial runs for determination of the critical duration
shall be made.
   (E)   Storm frequencies and allowable water surfaces. Storm event
frequencies from the IDOT Drainage Manual shall be applied as follows:
      (1)   Existing and proposed ditches shall be designed for the 50-year
event such that flows do not exceed defined banks. The exception is that
existing and proposed ditches draining municipal-jurisdictional areas and
larger areas and those intercepting commercial, industrial, or multi-family
area discharges shall be designed for the 100 year event such that flows do not
exceed defined banks. Ditches and swales, other than for those draining
municipal-jurisdictional areas and larger areas shall be designed such that the
depth of flow does not exceed nine inches at said 50 year events. Ditches and
swales at boundaries where off-site sheet flow is intercepted and channelized
shall be designed such that there is no increased water surface depth at any
point beyond the boundary for any storm event.
      (2)   Proposed ditches and swales at boundaries shall direct intercepted
runoff to culverts or storm sewer systems. These cannot be directed towards
proposed pavement and pavement inlets near the boundaries.
      (3)   Culverts that do not intercept jurisdictional and municipal-
jurisdictional area runoff shall be designed for capacity only for the 50-year
event. Note definitions of culverts: continuous conduit systems devoid of an
inlet at the upstream end. This includes the entire downstream storm sewer
system that may be connected at the downstream end of the culvert.
      (4)   Culverts, storm sewers, or other structures such as bridges
intercepting runoff from municipal-jurisdictional areas shall be designed for a
100-year event capacity such that allowable created headwater requirements are
met for the same event; i.e. the increased water surface at the upstream face
must be 0.50 feet or less above the natural water surface and such that there
is no more than a 0.10 foot increase in the natural water surface elevation
1,000 feet upstream of the upstream face. Additionally, the allowable freeboard
from design headwater to edges of pavement in the vicinity of the culvert shall
be a minimum of two feet and this shall be based not on natural conditions
downstream, but existing conditions - with existing downstream culverts and
other structures in place. Proposed structures shall be considered existing in
calculating allowable freeboard. Freeboard requirements shall be required for
any structure, regardless of its position in relation to the subdivision
boundary due to storage considerations, unless comprehensive unsteady flow time
effects are being modeled and compared for within the entire subdivision and
incoming flows. No flood easements shall be obtained to effect these
requirements.
      (5)   Culverts or other structures draining municipal-jurisdictional
areas coincident with jurisdictional floodplains shall have 0.0 created head.
      (6)   Gutter capacities, inlet spacing determinations, inlet capacities,
and storm sewer piping systems shall be designed for the ten-year event. IDOT
Drainage Manual requirements for storm sewer systems draining sag locations in
pavement to be designed for 50 year events shall not be required except for
roadways requiring review by IDOT. Allowable encroachment, measured from the
joint of edge-of-pavement and the street-side edge of curbing into the pavement
shall be as follows:
         (a)   For streets without parking, with one lane in each direction,
encroachment shall be allowed to within ten feet either side of the roadway
centerline.
         (b)   For streets with adjoining parking lanes, encroachment shall be
limited to the parking lanes.
         (c)   For streets without parking, with more than one lane each
direction, encroachment shall be allowed such that 11 foot driving lanes devoid
of encroachment flows are maintained either side of the roadway centerline.
      (7)   Bridge and culvert hydraulic grade lines (HGL’s) shall be
calculated for the ten and 100 year events, minimum. Storm sewer HGL’s shall be
calculated for the 10 and 100 year events, minimum. HGL’s shall remain one foot
below tops of inlets at the applicable design frequency. Checking the 100 year
event is primarily intended for evaluating whether inhabitable shelters are
adequately above 100 year water surfaces but it is also required indirectly for
design of detention systems. When HGL’s for the 100 year exceed inlet tops and
increases in pipe sizes cannot be made to lower HGL’s, the water surface
occurring at these inlet locations on the surface shall be analyzed in greater
detail by calculating surface depths in the contributing swale, ditch,
topography, and gutter area. Inlet capacity calculations may or may not address
the aforementioned calculations in that the adjoining topography may not have
been included in the inlet capacity calculations previously.
      (8)   Inlets other than those in pavements shall be designed such that
depth of flow at the surface does not exceed nine inches.
      (9)   Detention or retention facilities shall be designed to attenuate
discharges from them for the ten and 100-year events.
   (F)   Hydraulics. The hydraulic methods considered applicable for particular
size areas, as noted in the IDOT Drainage Manual, shall be utilized, except for
the following requirements:
      (1)   Hydraulic grade lines (HGL’s) for all ditches, channels, and
conduits draining jurisdictional, municipal-jurisdictional, and larger areas
shall be calculated utilizing USACoE’s computer software HEC-RAS, or
equivalent. In the event unsteady flows are analyzed with this software, such
that higher frequency events are analyzed coincident with those for other
smaller conduit and ditch systems that enter these larger ditches, channels,
and conduit, throughout the development (e.g. ten-year), then HGL’s for said
smaller conduit and ditch systems can be based on the higher frequency water
surfaces, otherwise, the smaller systems hydraulics shall be based on the 100-
year water surfaces of said jurisdictional and municipal-jurisdictional
systems, i.e. 100-year tailwaters input for said smaller systems.
      (2)   As noted in previous sections of this Code, the most conservative
interpretations will be made for existing and future backwater effects
downstream and upstream and determinations generating the highest water
surfaces occurring in the subdivision or development shall be used.
      (3)   HGL’s for all other conduits other than those for jurisdiction and
municipal-jurisdictional areas shall be calculated using gravity and not
pressure flow to meet freeboard requirements.
      (4)   Computer software functioning primarily to generate hydrographs but
with some hydraulic capabilities such as routing through conduits, detention,
and the like, may be utilized to address time effects throughout systems,
however, it shall not be used for calculation of continuous HGL’s throughout
proposed and existing drainage systems unless it can fully link individual
components of the systems such that the user does not need to manually input
tailwater elevations for each component.
      (5)   The minimum slopes for all conduits shall be 0.50%.
      (6)   Gutter encroachment and capacities for all sections of pavement
shall be calculated and these shall be in accordance with IDOT requirements.
      (7)   Inlet capacities shall be calculated for all inlets and these shall
be in accordance with IDOT requirements. Weir flow, and not orifice flow, shall
be the basis for determining inlet capacities.
   (G)   Placement, appurtenances, materials, and backfilling. The following
pertain to systems the city will have maintenance responsibility for, including
connections to said systems within easement and right-of-way).
      (1)   Placement.
         (a)   Clean out structures such as manholes with a minimum four foot
inner diameter or larger area shall be placed a minimum of 300 feet apart along
all buried conduits, including box culverts.
         (b)   The minimum inlet spacing for commercial and industrial areas
along dedicated streets, one side, shall be 300 feet, anticipating changes in
developments.
         (c)   Curb opening inlets with no flag grates shall not be used at
non-sag locations.
         (d)   A minimum of two grate inlets, if utilized, will be required at
sag locations. These may be connected with conduit under curb but this distance
shall not exceed 15 feet.
         (e)   No grates shall extend into pavement, beyond curbing, unless it
is shown that other type inlets cannot be utilized.
         (f)   Drainage conduits paralleling streets shall not run under
pavement and shall be beyond the back of curb.
         (g)   Pavement inlets connecting to main conduits beyond the back of
curb shall not require manholes for connection at the main conduits if the
connecting run of conduit is less than four feet. A tee in the main may be
utilized. Two sag inlets can be connected with a single conduit run to the main
utilizing a tee.
         (h)   Dual and multiple pipe culvert runs are allowed, however, to
improve hydraulics, the influents or effluents of these shall be tied with a
cast-in-place concrete headwalls rather than flared end sections (see
appurtenances).
      (2)   Appurtenances.
         (a)   All storm sewer appurtenances or structures such as inlets and
manholes maintained by the City shall be cast-in-place, concrete masonry, or
precast concrete. Other type materials will not be accepted. These shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with IDOT requirements where applicable,
otherwise in accordance with ASTM C478 or C913.
         (b)   All detention facility appurtenances shall be cast-in-place or
precast concrete.
         (c)   All manholes and all inlets with flat concrete slabs shall have
access frames and lids. These shall not be constructed of concrete.
         (d)   All structures larger than two foot inner diameter at the base
shall have standard IDOT steps cast/formed into the walls for access.
         (e)   Grated inlets shall be pedestrian safe in areas having
pedestrian access.
         (f)   Trench grates shall be cast-in-place.
         (g)   Standard IDOT inlet types and grates shall be utilized wherever
possible to facilitate future maintenance by the city. All grated inlets shall
be pedestrian safe. The city reserves the right to require specific inlet and
grate types through the City of Waterloo Construction Details.
         (h)   Horizontally offset and/or curb opening inlets with grates in
the flag will be allowed if:
            1.   the capacities for these type inlets are calculated in
accordance with the Drainage Manual’s curb opening inlets on grade procedures,
including the intercept equation Q = 0.80L(a+y)3/2 where L=length of clear
opening at the gutter flow line; a = depth of depression below normal gutter
flow line, occurring between curb flow line and where free fall into the inlet
occurs; y=depth of flow in approach gutter.
            2.   These are constructed per the City Construction Details with
the added stipulations that the adjoining curb shall not be placed higher than
the height shown on the typical section for the roadway in order to accommodate
the inlet grate or flat slab top, the apron to the inlet is a minimum of eight
inches thick, the flat slab does not protrude beyond the projection of the back
of curb, there is a minimum of three inches of opening into the inlet, there is
a wall in the inlet supporting the flat slab every 3.5 feet, and the inlet’s
flat slab top is properly aligned with sidewalk such that there are no parallel
joints between the flat slab and the sidewalk and such that there is no
disruption in the vertical alignment of the sidewalk.
         (i)   Precast reinforced concrete flared end sections and poured
toewalls are required at all single pipe inlets and outlets, at a minimum.
Connections to non-reinforced concrete pipe, as needed, shall require cast
concrete collars positioned a minimum of eight feet back from the flared end
section. Pipe between the flared end section and the collar shall be IDOT Class
A (concrete) pipe.
         (j)   Cast-in-place, reinforced concrete headwalls per IDOT standards,
or specially designed with a structural engineer’s signed and sealed drawings,
are required for all dual or multiple pipe culvert runs.
      (3)   Conduit materials.
         (a)   Corrugated metal pipe systems including culverts shall not be
utilized for bridges, culverts, conduits, and structures.
         (b)   IDOT Class A storm sewer pipe shall be utilized for all storm
sewers, culverts, and storm outlet structures in detention or retention
facilities when circular conduits are hydraulically adequate.
         (c)   All circular conduits shall have an inside diameter equal to or
greater than 15 inches.
         (d)   All conduits shall increase in inner area as a system progresses
in a downward sloping direction regardless of hydraulic calculations.
         (e)   Soil conditions may preclude the use of precast concrete box
culverts, in accordance with IDOT requirements and the geotechnical
investigation.
      (4)   Backfilling.
         (a)   When trench limits of undisturbed soils extend within two feet
of the back of curb, or the building edge of sidewalk, final backfill of the
type shown on the City of Waterloo Construction Details.
         (b)   All overdig areas regardless of their limits, around
appurtenances positioned as noted in (1) above shall be backfilled in similar
fashion.
         (c)   All non-Class A pipe regardless of its location shall have
aggregate bedding, haunching, and initial backfill a minimum of one foot above
the top of the pipe within easement and right-of-way.
   (H)   Detention and retention facilities. In addition to the planning
requirements of this code, more specific requirements are as follows. These
shall apply to both existing facilities that will be utilized as retention or
detention that were not utilized as such prior to subdivision and proposed
facilities. Design of these facilities shall follow requirements herein and
those of state agencies governing such, whichever is more restrictive. Features
required for detention and retention facilities are applicable to either,
unless noted otherwise. Geometric requirements generally only pertain to
subdivision development and not development of single tracts.
      (1)   Retention and detention facilities.
         (a)   Facilities shall be designed such that there is no increase in
velocity and flow from pre-development conditions at the point or points of
discharge at boundaries of the tract for the detention facilities. This is for
all storm events between the two-year and 100-year events. Drainage
calculations shall also show conditions for the ten-year and 50-year events.
Outletting of these intermediate events via appurtenances at the detention
outlet structures is not strictly required but is recommended.
         (b)   Pre-development times of concentration shall be longer than
post-development times of concentration for conversions of sheet and shallow
concentrated type surface flows into those of shallow concentrated type in
gutters. Post-development times of concentration through major storm sewer
piping runs shall be utilized in calculating post- flows.
         (c)   Tailwaters downstream shall be calculated and utilized in
determining the capacity of the existing or proposed facility.
         (d)   The 100-year water surface, that occurring above normal pool,
shall be contained within the drainage easement area designated for the
facility and shall not extend into buildable lot areas.
         (e)   A minimum freeboard of three feet is required above the 100-year
water surface for tops of embankment.
         (f)   Banks shall not be greater than 3:1 near the high water areas
and extending down into basins, except for retention facilities.
         (g)   A 3% sloped earthen plateau shall be provided around the entire
perimeter of the 100-year high water elevation, three feet beyond side slopes
required, a minimum of 12 feet wide to afford vehicular access, except in areas
with paved accessways as prescribed in other sections of this code. These
plateaus shall extend across any embankment acting as impoundment for the
facility.
         (h)   All facilities of the open basin type shall have a defined
emergency overflow area that shall be designed as a concrete spillway and/or
walls with adequate protection against scour and frost heave. It shall be
designed and detailed on the plans with said signed and sealed by a licensed
structural engineer in Illinois.
         (i)   All perimeters of spillways, pipe intakes, standpipe structures,
weirs, and other structures shall have rip rap placed alongside. Riprap shall
extend fully into the lowest point of the basins either side of any embankment
and to points beyond embankment where velocities are dissipated. The city
reserves the right to modify proposed rip rap placement proposed on a case-by-
case basis.
         (j)   A 20 foot minimum setback shall be required from all property
lines to the detention outlet structures and/or toe of embankment at the
outfall of the facility.
      (2)   Retention facilities.
         (a)   Existing ponds or lakes that are in the path of an existing
ditch, stream, jurisdictional and municipal - jurisdictional drainageways, or
base flood areas shall be improved to maintain existing normal pool elevations
with no increase to said elevations due to increased discharge. Enlarging these
with additional excavation will be required.
         (b)   Facilities shall be designed as detention facilities with no
allowances for percolation due to the soils within the jurisdiction of this
code.
         (c)   Normal pool elevation shall be considered the bottom for
detention calculations.
         (d)   Facilities shall be designed to retain water to the normal pool
elevation. The geotechnical report required for the development or subdivision
shall also evaluate the need for basin liners to maintain said elevation.
         (e)   The geotechnical report required for the development or
subdivision shall also evaluate the feasibility of expanding existing
impoundment with elevation of earthen embankments if so required. Placement of
earth on top of existing embankment will not be allowed without adequate
preparation and integration with the underlying, existing embankment.
         (f)   Due to their nature, these facilities may or may not be modified
to discharge at higher frequency events with the use of weirs, orifices, pipes,
and other outlet structures. In the event that these are not modified with
such, considering the need to retain storage capacity above normal pool
discounting any percolation, a system of graduated spillways designed to
discharge no more than the required storm events are considered the minimum
modifications required.
         (g)   Facilities shall be a minimum of four feet in depth under normal
pool, unless fish habitats are desired, for which the minimum depth of eight
feet shall be required for a minimum of 25% of the bottom area to afford winter
habitat.
         (h)   For basins eight feet in depth, 2:1 side slopes around the areas
that are eight feet deep will be required.
         (i)   Shoreline stabilization shall be required around all facilities.
This shall extend to a depth of one foot below the normal pool elevation and to
an elevation of one foot above the normal pool elevation measured vertically.
Riprap, cast-in-place or modular concrete block retaining walls are acceptable.
When walls are utilized, their maximum height is limited to four feet. Other
methods shall be reviewed by the city for approval.
         (j)   An outlet structure shall be designed and installed for
dewatering of the pond for maintenance. Gravity dewatering mechanisms are
preferred. These shall be designed and constructed with materials approved by
the city on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   Detention facilities.
         (a)   The minimum size of any outlet structure pipe shall be 12
inches. Galvanized or stainless steel orifice plates may be utilized for small
development sites and subdivisions on upstream inflow pipes. These shall be
adjustable with corrosion protected systems such that no cutting or disruption
of the installation is necessary to make any adjustments. These shall be
constructed so that they are accessible and so there is working room to perform
adjustments if needed on the outside of the structure.
         (b)   Standpipe outlet structures, box structures within embankment
with pipe and weir systems on the wet side of embankment and any other
structures shall be constructed of material required by this code.
         (c)   A low flow channel shall be provided that is no less than a
0.40% slope. Said channel shall have a minimum two foot wide, eight inches
thick concrete gutter constructed of the same mix for curb utilized in the IDOT
Standard Specifications.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1378, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 1527,
passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1545, passed 4-5-2010; Am. Ord. 1597, passed 3-5-
2012; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-16 EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Where detention or retention systems are proposed to be used as part
of the drainage system, required low flow channels shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork, silt fences and erosion controls shall
be in place before earthwork commences. Additionally, the detention outlet
inlet area, within the storage area, shall be protected with a riprap silt
collection berm (IDOT Class A3 minimum) set at a 15-feet radius around said
inlet. The height of said berm shall be equal to the top elevation of the
lowest structure inlet/intake but shall not be less than 18 inches. Any eroded
sediment captured in these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a
regular basis and before project completion in order to maintain the design
volume of the facilities. Alternate permanent concrete drop structures
providing silt collection in advance of the inlet may be considered.
   (B)   The detention outlet structure inlet shall be protected with a rip rap
silt collection berm (five- inch clean stone - RAP 6) set at a 15-feet radius
around the inlet. The height shall be equal to the top elevation of the lowest
structure inlet with an 18- inch minimum height. Any eroded sediment captured
in these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a regular basis and
before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of the
facilities. Alternate permanent concrete drop structures providing silt
collection in advance of the inlet may be considered.
(Ord. 1108, passed 8-23-1999; Am. Ord. 1378, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 1573,
passed 2-28-2011; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-17 CURB AND GUTTER REQUIREMENTS.
   The general requirements pertaining to street classifications and required
curb and gutter types shall be followed:
   (A)   Alleys shall not be required to have concrete curb and gutter.
   (B)   All streets bordering on subdivisions for which plat approval is
requested shall be improved with curbs and gutters and storm sewer systems
designed in accordance with applicable sections of this code. The improvement
plans shall reflect these requirements with the inclusion of curb and gutter
and storm sewer elevations. Existing pavement that is removed shall be replaced
with material matching that of the existing or better. The profile developed
for immediate construction of curb on one side associated with the development
being proposed shall be designed to accommodate new curb and drainage on the
opposite side of the street. Drainage systems to accommodate new curb and
drainage on the opposite side of the street are not required to be installed
with the immediate development, however, proposed designs for systems being
built shall accommodate pavement drainage and existing runoff from an area
extending from the back of curb of the opposite side of the street a distance
away from said back of curb that is a minimum of 50 feet. When larger areas
than those described will be required to discharge into the same street
drainage system, the city may opt to initiate upgrades to the systems being
designed for the immediate development at costs borne by the city.
   (C)   Combination concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed in
accordance with the IDOT Standard Specifications and standards and requirements
of this code in effect at the time the preliminary plat is submitted for
approval, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (D)   All adjoining pavement joints shall be extended into the curb and
gutter and be constructed and filled of similar or higher methods and material.
   (E)   A minimum one-eighth inch sawed longitudinal joint constructed in
accordance with the standards shall be required along the edge of pavement if
the curb and gutter is monolithically poured with the pavement (slip-form
method).
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-18 CONCRETE AND BITUMINOUS PAVEMENTS.
   The developer shall estimate ADTs and include supporting data and pavement
design information with the improvement plans. The city shall determine the
ADTs of the proposed streets and may require, based upon said determination,
that higher pavement structures be required, designed according to the IDOT
Standard Specifications, Highway Standards, The LAP Manual, Drainage Manual and
Appendix, Bureau of Design and Environment Manuals, department memos, and other
manuals adopted by IDOT. The developer shall pay for pavement cores and testing
when the city deems this is needed based on testing or performance within the
warranty period.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-19 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Permanent monuments shall be of stone or concrete, four inches x four
inches x 30 inches iron pipe cast in the center, set in such a manner that they
will not be moved by frost. These monuments must be placed at all corners, at
each end of all curves, at the point where a curve changes its radius, at all
angle points in any line, and at all angle points along a meander line, the
points to be not less than 20 feet back from the normal water elevation of a
lake or from the bank of a stream, except that when such corners or points fall
within a street or proposed future street, the monuments must be placed in the
right-of-way line of the street. All internal boundaries, corners and points
must be monumented in the field by like monuments as defined above. These
monuments, two of which must be of stone or reinforced concrete and must be set
at the opposite extremities of the property platted, placed at all block
corners, at each end of all curves, at the points where a curve changes its
radius, and at all angle points in any line. All lots must be mounted in the
field with two or more monuments.
   (B)   Lot corners shall be marked by one-half-inch or larger iron pins or
pipes not less than 24 inches in length and driven into the ground and shall
not protrude above the ground surface more than one-half inch.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-20 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with street classifications
outlined in this code and the IDOT Standard Specifications, Highway Standards,
the LAP Manual, department memos, other manuals adopted by IDOT, and all state
and federal statutes and regulations regarding accessibility requirements in
effect at the time the preliminary plat is submitted for approval, except as
otherwise provided in this code. Sidewalks shall be constructed by the
developer either following or concurrent with installation of driveway pavement
of the property owner. If lots are not sold within three years following street
dedication, the developer shall install sidewalks with or without driveways
installed. The city reserves the right to waive or modify the following
requirements:
   (A)   Slope and location requirements.
      (1)   Existing sidewalks in adjoining properties shall be extended into
the proposed subdivision along the side of the roadway. The widths of existing
sidewalks at property lines shall be matched and shall be transitioned to
required widths for a distance of at least 30 feet into the proposed
subdivision.
      (2)   Widths and grass areas shall be in accordance with requirements of
this code regarding street classifications.
      (3)   All proposed and future sidewalk surface, grass separation area,
and driveways shall be sloped from the top of the back of curb at no greater
than ¼-inch per foot as shown in the City of Waterloo Construction Details.
      (4)   The maximum longitudinal grade of all sidewalks, parallel with
roadways, shall not exceed 8%, as shown in the City of Waterloo Construction
Details.
      (5)   Where sidewalks intersect at the corners of intersections of
streets, regardless of street classification, disabled accessibility shall be
provided in accordance with Highway Standards adopted by IDOT and in effect at
the time the preliminary plat is submitted for approval, except as otherwise
provided in this code.
      (6)   All sidewalks at three-way or four-way intersections and cul-de-
sacs shall be designed so as to provide accessibility to real or implied
crosswalks and shall be aligned with opposing sidewalks as shown in the City of
Waterloo Construction Details.
      (7)   Sidewalks adjoining streets that terminate abruptly shall also
abruptly terminate.
      (8)   Sidewalks shall be constructed around cul-de-sacs in such a manner
that access areas to real or implied crosswalks, and shall be connected when
sidewalks are constructed on either side of the roadway.
   (B)   Construction requirements.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall not be poured monolithically with driveway pavement
or curb and gutter.
      (2)   Transverse (“cracker” or “fresno”) joints shall be troweled into
the surface every four feet.
      (3)   Transverse mastic joints shall be provided every 50 feet.
      (4)   All sidewalk surfaces shall be broom finished and those serving as
disabled access shall receive an imprinted diamond pattern in accordance with
the Highway Standards adopted by IDOT and in effect at the time the preliminary
plat is submitted for approval, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (C)   Sidewalk variances. A variance may be granted in the provisions
pertaining to sidewalks, if one or more of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Where sidewalks are not deemed necessary for public safety or where
topographical or other conditions make sidewalk installation and use
impractical.
      (2)   Where the subdivision designer has submitted for review a proposed
pedestrian movement plan that provides for more direct and safer movement of
pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-21 INTERSECTIONS, 3-WAY STOPS AND 4-WAY STOPS.
   Pavement surfaces within 100 feet of the centerline of any three-way or
four-way stop intersections shall be concrete pavement and a minimum of seven
inches thick.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-22 DRIVEWAY PAVEMENT.
   Concrete driveway pavement within rights of way shall be a minimum of six
inches thick with Class SI concrete. Bituminous driveway pavement within rights
of way shall be a minimum of three inches thick on a minimum of six-inch
aggregate base course, type A sub-base.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1250, passed 4-21-2003; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-23 BIKE PATHS AND TRAILS.
   In addition to the sidewalk requirements, developers are encouraged to
include other methods of pedestrian movement, such as bike paths and nature
trails, in conjunction with or partially in substitution for sidewalks.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-4-24 STREET LIGHTING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements. Street lighting improvements shall be installed to serve
all properties within the subdivision. Such improvements shall be of the
individual service type and shall consist of standards, luminaries, cable
conduit under driveways and/or streets, controllers, handholes, and all other
miscellaneous work and equipment necessary for an integrated system of street
lights.
   (B)   Location. There shall be at least one standard luminaire at each
intersection and interior of each cul-de-sac, and spacing of standards shall
not exceed 300 feet in residential areas.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-25 SIGNS.
   All signs, supports and installation shall be paid for by the developer upon
completion of same. A street marker shall be placed at each intersection,
designating the names of the streets entering said intersection. The marker
shall be of a material approved by the Council and sufficient in size to
accommodate four-inch lettering; they shall be mounted two-inch galvanized pipe
posts or standard “U” channel painted or galvanized sign posts (minimum weight
2.6 pounds per foot) with at least three feet in the ground and a minimum of
seven feet above the ground. All signs shall be reflectorized. The location and
number of stop signs, speed limit signs, and the like shall be determined by
the city.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-26 EROSION CONTROL.
   The following requirements shall be applied in the subdivision and
construction of land areas, in conjunction with applicable standards and
specifications contained in the Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban
Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, excepting Chapter Six. The developer
must comply with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA)
specifications for soil erosion and sediment control, latest edition, and must
apply for an NPDES permit E, as applicable, through the IEPA:
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create the least possible soil erosion.
      (2)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion controls can be provided as construction progresses. The
smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one period of time.
      (3)   Existing healthy trees and native vegetation on the site shall be
preserved to the maximum extent feasible.
      (4)   All temporary and permanent erosion controls must be maintained and
repaired by the developer and his or her contractor.
      (5)   The city can determine which controls are in need of initial or
additional repair, at any time during construction. This does not absolve the
developer and his or her contractor from their responsibilities to maintain
planned controls at their intended levels of operation.
      (6)   The developer and his or her contractor shall bear all costs of
installing erosion controls per requirements herein, and those proposed in the
improvement plans, and all costs of required repairs.
      (7)   Land disturbance of any lot in the development and storage of dirt
shall be spread on the total area of lot(s) to eliminate heaping and minimize
unsightly growth. All weeds, grass, or vegetation shall be maintained below
eight inches in height.
   (B)   Temporary controls.
      (1)   The location of temporary controls shall be shown on improvement
plans, either on the grading plans, street plans, or other sheets, in addition
to details of these controls. The site disturbance may occur in stages, so that
all planned controls are not utilized at the same time. However, all controls
used immediately or at later stages should be shown.
      (2)   Temporary controls should be planned so that sediment is retained
on-site so there is the least potential for soil erosion. All temporary
controls shall be in place prior to initiating clearing, grading, stripping,
excavating or fill activities on-site.
      (3)   All disturbed areas with no defined swales or ditches, where sheet
flow runoff occurs so that natural or re-routed flows exit the property being
developed, shall have filter barriers the entire length of the intercepting
boundary, paralleling it, be it an existing or recently constructed street,
adjoining property line, and/or waterway. The waterway may be an existing or
proposed swale, ditch, creek, river, pond, lake, existing detention basin, or
other type that transports existing or re-routed flows from one property to
another. Filter barriers may be straw bales or silt fences.
      (4)   All areas having slopes steeper than 1:3 shall be stabilized with
sod, mat, or blanket in combination with seeding or equivalent.
      (5)   All storm inlets shall have upstream sediment traps or filter
barriers around them. All pipe culverts shall have similar controls at their
upstream and downstream ends. All existing or proposed swales and/or ditches
shall have filter barriers or sediment traps every 300 feet, at a minimum.
      (6)   All disturbance of waterways such as creeks, rivers, ponds, lakes,
and/or existing detention basins, such that existing or proposed vegetation is
removed and soil is exposed shall be stabilized with rock or rip rap if the
bank slopes are steeper than 1:4, or with erosion blankets, if the bank side
slopes are less than 1:4. The erosion control shall be placed in the waterway
bottom, extending up and over the banks. This stabilization shall be done
within 48 hours after the channel disturbance is complete. All proposed
waterways shall be stabilized.
      (7)   Where construction crossings are necessary, temporary crossings
shall be constructed of non-erosive material such as rip rap or gravel, and
shall comply with all state, federal and local agencies’ policies regarding
such activity.
      (8)   Whenever temporary channel diversion is necessary, the new channel
shall be constructed with the existing channel functioning and fully stabilized
before flow is diverted. Temporary erosion control, similar to that required
for a proposed channel, shall be used for the temporary channel.
      (9)   Soil storage piles containing more than ten cubic yards of material
shall not be located with a downslope drainage length of less than 25 feet to a
roadway, drainage channel or sinkhole. Filter barriers, including straw bales,
filter fence, or equivalent, shall be installed immediately on the downslope
side of the piles.
      (10)   If dewatering devices such as pumps are used, discharge locations
shall be protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be routed through
appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent, and shall not
be deposited into a sinkhole.
      (11)   Sediment basins and sediment traps shall be designed to store the
estimated sediment load for the contributing area, for the duration of one
year.
      (12)   Each site shall have gravel entrance roads of sufficient length
and width to prevent sediment from being tracked onto public or private
roadways. Any sediment on a public or private road, for any distance beyond the
entrance road, shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning, not flushing,
before the end of each workday, and transported to appropriate areas on the
site.
      (13)   Alteration of sinkholes is prohibited.
   (C)   Permanent controls.
      (1)   No trash, dead trees, uprooted stumps, brush piles, or soil storage
piles shall remain after construction, as determined by the city.
      (2)   All temporary erosion controls shall remain in place at least 30
days after permanent controls are in place, at which time these shall be
disposed of in a proper manner by the developer and his or her contractor.
      (3)   All aggregate or rip rap used for temporary controls shall be
removed from the site. Disturbed areas required for such removals shall have
permanent erosion controls in place immediately following the disturbance.
      (4)   Any sediment not intercepted by temporary controls in permanent
drainage structures shall be removed to the structure flowlines.
      (5)   All disturbed areas within the site shall be seeded in general
accordance with the IDOT Standard Specifications. Seeding, Class 1 or 2 shall
be used within right-of-way areas. Seeding, Class 1, 2 or 3 shall be used in
other areas. Seeding does not have to be broadcast with methods specified in
the Standard Specifications, however, application rates shall apply. Mulch,
Method 2, shall be utilized for all disturbed areas.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-4-27 (RESERVED)
§ 34-4-28 NATURAL GAS AND OTHER PIPELINES.
   (A)   No building or land disturbance shall be permitted within 25 feet of
any transmission line.
   (B)   No building or structure or part thereof, which is used for the
manufacturing, processing, generation or storage of corrosive, highly toxic,
oxidizing, pyrophoric, water reactive, highly combustible, flammable, or
explosive materials that constitute a high fire, explosion, or health hazard,
including loose, combustible fibers, dust and unstable material, shall be
constructed within 125 feet of any transmission line.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Buildings existing on April 17, 1995;
      (2)   Any building, land disturbance, or construction involved in the
crossing of a pipeline to provide access to a property, when no other
reasonable access is permitted, and the crossing of a pipeline to provide
utility services to a parcel of land; and
      (3)   Any work done to any building, land disturbance, or construction on
a pipeline by or on behalf of the owner or operator of any pipeline.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
ARTICLE V: FINAL PLATS
Section
   
34-5-1   General
   
34-5-2   Prerequisites
   
34-5-3   Submittal
   
34-5-4   (Reserved)
   
34-5-5   General requirements
   
34-5-6   Approval procedure
   
34-5-7   Issuing of building permits
   
34-5-8   Repair of obligation and guarantee collateral release
   
34-5-9   Changes in approved final plats
§ 34-5-1 GENERAL.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided and no lots shall be sold or transferred
by a subdivider until the final plat is approved by the city and recorded with
the Monroe County Recorder of Deeds.
   (B)   Before subdividing any land, subject to the requirements of this code,
an owner or developer shall comply with the following final plat submission,
review and approval procedure.
(Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-5-2 PREREQUISITES.
   Final plats shall be neither approved by the city nor recorded by the Monroe
County Recorder of Deeds unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Prior installation. The improvements called for by the improvement
plans approved by the city and facilities intended to be dedicated to the city,
other public body or acceptable private entity have been completed, inspected
and given initial approval by the city, and the subdivider has:
      (1)   Paid to the city the costs estimated by the city for the extension
of electric and gas service by the city to and within the development; or
      (2)   The subdivider has entered into a contract with a private
contractor approved by the city for the extension of electric and gas service
to and within the development, pursuant to plans and specifications presented
to and approved by the city, and presents to the city an executed copy of such
contract with respect to the installation of such electric and/or gas service.
If a private contractor is used for the extension of electric and/or gas
service to and within a development, the subdivider shall pay to the city its
costs incurred with respect to the inspection and monitoring of the extension
of such utility services by the private contractor. If the city installs the
extension of such electric and/or gas service, the city shall not be limited in
recovering its charges for such electric and gas extensions by the amount of
its estimate furnished to the developer.
   (B)   Guarantee by subdivider.
      (1)   The subdivider shall post with the City Clerk a repair guarantee in
a form consisting of one of the following:
         (a)   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank or trust
company authorized to do business in the State of Illinois.
         (b)   Cash, cashier’s check, certificates of deposit, treasury bills,
or other readily negotiable instruments made payable to the City Treasurer.
      (2)   Such repair guarantee shall be one-fourth the amount of the
estimated construction cost of all improvements called for by the improvement
plans approved by the city and other facilities intended to be dedicated to the
city, other public body or approved private legal entity. The repair guarantee
shall be posted for a period of three years and shall remain in effect until
released as provided by this code. The act of letting a guarantee expire prior
to release shall be considered a default by the developer and a violation of
the city’s ordinances.
   (C)   Conformance to preliminary plat.
      (1)   For residential areas, the final plat shall conform to the approved
preliminary plat as amended or supplemented.
      (2)   For areas not zoned residential, the final plat shall conform to
the approved preliminary plat as amended or supplemented, except for changes to
lot lines and/or lot sizes judged to be minor by the Subdivision Administrator.
   (D)   Record drawings. Record drawings, showing as-built locations of water
mains, sewer mains and sewer taps, shall be submitted to the city, after the
improvements have been installed in accordance with approved improvement plans,
and prior to initial approval of improvements by the city. Record drawings
shall include any deviation to, or changes of, improvements approved by the
city, which drawings shall be signed and sealed by developer’s engineer. Record
drawings shall consist of photographic reproduction mylar, with a maximum size
of 24 inches by 36 inches. The subdivider shall provide the corresponding
digital computer-aided- drafting (CAD) files, in a format compatible with the
city’s CAD system format in use at the time of submittal of the record
drawings.
(Am. Ord. 1438, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-5-3 SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   Three 24-inch-by-36-inch mylars, two 24-inch-by-36-inch copies, and
one 11-inch-by-17-inch copy of the final plat shall be submitted to the
Subdivision Administrator, providing all of the information, data and
supporting detail required by this code.
   (B)   A fee as prescribed by Chapter 12 of this code of ordinances shall be
paid with the submission of the final plat.
(Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-5-4 (RESERVED).
§ 34-5-5 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The final plat shall consist of photographic reproduction mylar with a
maximum size of 24 inches by 36 inches. The subdivider shall provide the
corresponding digital computer-aided-drafting (CAD) files, in a format
compatible with the city’s CAD system format in use at the time of submittal of
the final plat. The final plat shall portray or present the following:
   (A)   Boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings, based on an accurate
traverse and referenced in accordance with the Illinois Coordinate System Act,
ILCS Ch. 765, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq., and the Federal Geodetic Control
Committee. The allowable error of closure and positional accuracy of the
boundary traverse, or any portion of the final plat, shall be one tenth of a
foot (0.10) or 1:20,000 for distances greater than 2,000 feet for urban
property (Second Order, Class 1) and one tenth of a foot (0.10) or 1:10,000 for
distances greater than 1,000 feet for suburban property (Second Order, Class 2)
. The final plat shall show coordinate value for each exterior corner.
   (B)   Accurate dimensions and bearings to a minimum of two survey control
points established by traverse to the city’s Monument Densification Project on
file with the city. Reference corners shall be accurately described on the
final plat.
   (C)   Reference to known and permanent monuments and bench marks from which
future surveys may be made, together with elevations of any bench marks; and
the surveyor must, at the time of making his or her survey, establish permanent
monuments, set in such a manner that they will not be moved by frost, which
mark the external boundaries of the tract to be divided or subdivided, and must
designate upon the plat the locations where they may be found.
   (D)   Accurate metes and bounds descriptions of the boundary and the
included area of the subdivision to the nearest 1/100 of an acre.
   (E)   Accurate locations of all existing and recorded streets intersecting
the boundaries of the tract.
   (F)   Right-of-way lines of streets, easements and other rights-of-way and
property lines and areas of lots and other tracts, with accurate dimensions,
bearings and curve data, including radii, arcs and chords, points of tangency,
and central angles.
   (G)   Name and right-of-way width for each proposed street or other right-
of-way.
   (H)   Easements.
      (1)   Location and dimensions of any easement within or outside the
platted boundary of the subdivision and a statement of purpose for each
easement.
      (2)   Document record number of any easement outside the platted boundary
of the subdivision.
   (I)   Number to identify each lot or site with assigned street addresses.
   (J)   Purpose for which sites, other than residential lots, are dedicated or
reserved.
   (K)   Lot dimensions and areas of each lot, and building lots or setback
lines and dimensions.
   (L)   Location, type, material and size of all monuments and lot markers.
   (M)   Certification, before a notary public, by the owners in fee of all
property embraced within the final plat, acknowledging the plat to be their
free and voluntary act, dedicating to the public use forever the streets and
drainage easements shown thereon, dedicating the easements shown thereon for
the construction and maintenance of municipal and public utility services, and
stating that building lines shown thereon will be referenced to in all future
conveyances of lots in the subdivision. In addition, the plat shall include the
dedication and reservation to the public of any right-of-way shown thereon. The
execution of a final plat by the owners in fee shall also be a representation
and warranty by the owners in fee that the plat is true and correct in all
respects and that the owners in fee will forever protect and fully indemnify
the city, and public utility or other person or entity benefitted by any
easements or right-of-way shown on the final plat from any claim, including any
attorney or professional fees incurred as a result of reliance upon the plat.
   (N)   Reference to recorded subdivision plats within 300 feet of adjoining
platted land by record name, date and number.
   (O)   Certification by the owners and owners’ engineer acknowledging that,
to the best of their knowledge and belief, the drainage of surface waters will
not be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or,
that if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has
been made for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public
areas, or drains that the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface
waters will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering
practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property
because of the construction of the subdivision.
   (P)   Title or name of subdivision; identification of the portion of the
Public Lands Survey in which the subdivision is located, and north arrow,
showing scale and date shown.
   (Q)   Certification by registered land surveyor with registration numbers
and seal affixed to all final documents prepared by the surveyor.
   (R)   Certification of dedication of all public areas.
   (S)   The permanent monument(s)/benchmark(s) placed and/or being used as
required and described by § 34-1-17(C). The reference marks used for this
survey and their elevations shall be denoted on the final plat.
   (T)   The Mayor and City Clerk’s signature block shall read as follows:
      Approved and accepted this _____ day of __________, 20___ by the City
Council of Waterloo. The city does not assume any liability for drainage
facilities improperly designed or constructed. The city reviews drainage plans,
but cannot, on behalf of any applicant, owner or developer, guarantee that
final drainage design review and approval by the city will relieve said person,
his or her successors and assigns, from liability due to improper design. City
approval of a final plat does not imply approval of the drainage design with
that plat.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1278, passed 3-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1304,
passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. 1378, passed 6-26-2006; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-
2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016) Penalty, see §
34-1-12
§ 34-5-6 APPROVAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Within 60 days from the date of submission of an application for final
plat approval or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever is later, the Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat
and supporting data, and shall advise the City Council in writing whether it
substantially conforms to the approved preliminary plat and whether it meets
the requirements of this code.
   (B)   When and if the City Council is satisfied with the final plat along
with all improvements, conditions, documents and financial surety, noted herein
pertaining to the subdivision, the Council shall approve the final plat and
authorize and direct the signature of the final plat as required by law. If
rejected, the City Council must state the reason or reasons for rejection.
(Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-5-7 ISSUING OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   Except as provided for in Article VI of this code, no building permit shall
be issued by the city until the final plat is approved and a mylar copy of the
recorded final plat is submitted to the city for filing in cases where
subdivision plats are required.
(Ord. 1101, passed 6-21-1999; Am. Ord. 1217B, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1321,
passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-
2016)
§ 34-5-8 REPAIR OBLIGATION AND GUARANTEE COLLATERAL RELEASE.
   (A)   Repair obligation.
      (1)   The subdivider shall be responsible for all repairs to the
improvements to be dedicated to the city for a period of two years from the
date of approval of the final plat; however, this two-year period shall be
extended in the event the city notifies the developer at any time during the
initial two-year period that:
         (a)   Repairs are required before the city will accept the
improvements, and those repairs have not been completed, inspected and approved
at the end of the two-year period; and
         (b)   The city has not already required payment under the posted
guarantee.
      (2)   In no event shall responsibility for repairs extend beyond three
years.
      (3)   If such improvements have not been properly installed, or if
repairs have not been made as required herein by the end of the two-year repair
guarantee period, then such guarantee, or a proportion thereof, as determined
by the city at its discretion, shall be paid over to the city by the subdivider
and/or guarantor, as may be applicable, and the proceeds from the guarantee
shall be used to pay for proper repairs to the improvements in accordance with
the requirements specified herein.
   (B)   Collateral release.
      (1)   The guarantee shall remain in effect until such time as the City
Clerk shall, upon authorization from the City Council, release the subdivider
from the guarantee obligations of the subdivider under this code. Such
guarantee may only be released when the city determines that all improvements
have been completed in a satisfactory manner, the developer’s two-year repair
obligation period has expired, and all repairs required for final acceptance of
improvements have been completed, inspected and approved. However, in no case
shall the guarantee be held beyond three years from the date of final plat
approval. Any guarantee given to the city by a subdivider shall be deemed to
incorporate the guaranty of all of the subdivider’s obligations under this code
with respect to such improvements.
      (2)   The Subdivision Administrator and the Director of Public Works
shall notify the City Council when a release of the guarantee collateral may be
given. Whenever improvements are to be dedicated to another authority, school
district, road district, park or other government, such improvements shall be
accepted or approved by such other entity before the release of the guarantee
collateral.
      (3)   Upon notification that the release of the guarantee collateral is
appropriate, the developer/subdivider shall be deemed to have dedicated the
improvements to the city and shall grant to the city a bill of sale and other
documents required by the city for the improvements. The City Council shall
approve the dedication, bill of sale and other documents and thereby give final
acceptance to the improvements to be dedicated to the city, and will authorize
the City Clerk to release all of the collateral guarantee.
(Ord. 1069, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1175, passed 2-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1219,
passed 3-18-2002; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1532, passed 10-26-
2009; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-5-9 CHANGES IN APPROVED FINAL PLATS.
   Once a final plat is approved by the City Council, it shall not thereafter
be modified; provided, however, that requests for changes may be submitted in
writing to the Subdivision Administrator, who will determine whether the change
is minor or major. Minor changes shall be approved or denied by the Subdivision
Administrator. Major changes shall require the filing of a new final plat and
approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 1273, passed 9-15-2003; Am. Ord. 1527, passed 9-8-2009; Am. Ord. 1696,
passed 3-21-2016)
ARTICLE VI: DISPLAY HOUSE PLATS
Section
   
34-6-1   Purpose
   
34-6-2   Procedure
   
34-6-3   Fee
   
34-6-4   Requirements
   
34-6-5   Execution
   
34-6-6   Condominium display home plat
§ 34-6-1 PURPOSE.
   To provide a procedure whereby the construction of a display house can begin
prior to the recording of the Final Plat.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-6-2 PROCEDURE.
   After receiving approval of the Preliminary Plat of a proposed subdivision
from the City Council, the subdivider may submit two copies of a Display House
Plat(s) to the city for review and approval. A reasonable number of display
plats may be approved, and building permits issued, where in the sole opinion
of the City Council, they are appropriate for the type of development
contemplated.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-6-3 FEE.
   A fee, as prescribed in
Chapter 12 of the Code of Ordinances, shall be paid to the city with each
Display House Plat Submittal.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-6-4 REQUIREMENTS.
   The Display House Plat shall include a complete out-boundary survey of the
proposed subdivision and shall show the location, size, proposed builder and
the number and location of parking areas of each display house in relation to
the proposed lots. The plat shall be consistent with the Final Plat and shall
comply with the requirements of the city’s ordinances including, but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   A Display House Plat shall be recorded in the Office of the Monroe
County Recorder of Deeds prior to issuance of a building permit for any display
house.
   (B)   Off street areas used for standing and maneuvering of vehicles shall
have concrete or asphalt construction, maintained adequately for all-weather
use, and so drained as to avoid flow of water across sidewalks.
   (C)   If initial construction of a display house has not commenced within 60
days, the city’s approval shall lapse and the Display House Plat shall be null
and void.
   (D)   If the Final Plat is not approved within one year of the date of
recording of the Display House Plat or such longer period as may be permitted
by the City Council, the then-owner shall remove or cause to be removed all
display houses from the property. Failure of owner to remove the display house
from the property within one year plus 30 days of date of approval shall
constitute the granting of authority of the City of Waterloo to remove or cause
the display houses to be removed, the cost of which shall be borne by the owner
and shall become a lien against the property.
   (E)   The Display House Plat shall become null and void upon the recording
of a Final Plat which establishes that each display house is on an approved
lot; however, the Display House shall not be sold until six months has elapsed
from the date of recording of the Final Plat.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-6-5 EXECUTION.
   The Display House Plat shall be executed in the same manner as a Final Plat.
The Plat shall also include a certificate indicating that there are no
delinquent taxes on the property.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 34-6-6 CONDOMINIUM DISPLAY HOME PLAT.
   The foregoing procedure shall also apply to condominium display homes.
(Ord. 1321, passed 11-15-2004; Am. Ord. 1696, passed 3-21-2016)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
ARTICLE I: (RESERVED)
ARTICLE II: UTILITY TAX
Section
   
36-2-1   Tax
   
36-2-2   Definitions
   
36-2-3   Origination of messages
   
36-2-4   Report
   
36-2-5   Payment of tax
   
36-2-6   Charge to customers
§ 36-2-1 TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon the following occupations or privileges:
   (A)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
   (C)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994; Am. Ord. 1236, passed 10-03-2002)
§ 36-2-2 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of messages,
the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling
gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and the consideration received
for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use or
consumption and not for resale, and the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use or consumption and
not for resale, and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material, and for all services rendered
therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of transmitting such messages, without any deduction on account of the cost of
the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor
or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the State of Illinois, or a receiver,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of a
person-to-person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities, whether owned or leased, or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994)
§ 36-2-3 ORIGINATION OF MESSAGES.
   In the case of persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages
through the use of mobile equipment such as cellular phones and paging systems,
the gross receipts from the business shall be deemed to originate within the
corporate limits of the city only if the address to which the bills for service
are sent is within the corporate limits of the city. If, however, that address
is not located within the city, then: (a) if the party responsible for the bill
is not an individual, the gross receipts from the business shall be deemed to
originate within the corporate limits of the municipality where the party's
principal place of business in Illinois is located; and (b) if the party
responsible for the bill is an individual, the gross receipts from the business
shall be deemed to originate within the corporate limits of the municipality
where that party's principal residence in Illinois is located.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994)
§ 36-2-4 REPORT.
   Every person engaged in an occupation or privilege to which this article
applies shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month a report
stating:
   (A)   The name of the person;
   (B)   The address of the person;
   (C)   The total amount of the person's gross receipts;
   (D)   The amount of tax due; and
   (E)   Such other reasonable information as the city may require.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 36-2-5 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   At the time the report is filed there shall be paid to the city the amount
of tax hereby imposed for the month of such report.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 36-2-6 CHARGE TO CUSTOMERS.
   The city shall charge its customers, in addition to the rates authorized by
ordinance, an additional charge equal to the tax imposed by §
36-2-1.
(Ord. 911, passed 2-22-1994)
ARTICLE III: ELECTRICITY TAX
Section
   
36-3-1   Tax imposed
   
36-3-2   Exceptions
   
36-3-3   Additional taxes
   
36-3-4   Collection
   
36-3-5   Reports to municipality
   
36-3-6   Credit for overpayment
   
36-3-7   Penalty
   
36-3-8   Definition of person or persons
§ 36-3-1 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   (A)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the municipality
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.444171 per kilowatt hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.291260 per kilowatt hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.262134 per kilowatt hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254852 per kilowatt hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254851 per kilowatt hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254850 per kilowatt hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254849 per kilowatt hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254848 per kilowatt hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.254847 per kilowatt hour;
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month: $0.254846 per kilowatt hour.
   (B)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2, the rates set forth in
division (A) of this section shall be effective on August 1, 1999.
   (C)   Pursuant to ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2,
Chapter 36, §
36-2-1(C) shall specifically remain in effect until July 31, 1999.
   (D)   The provisions of this §
36-3-1 shall not be effective until August 1, 1999.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-2 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this article may be imposed with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which the
business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by this state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or transmitting gas, water, or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this article for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers'
Occupation Tax Act, as authorized by ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1; nor shall
any tax authorized by this article be imposed upon any person engaged in a
business or on any privilege, unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at
the same rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the
municipality, whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising
the same privilege within the municipality.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-3 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   This tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-4 COLLECTION.
   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the purchaser by
the person maintaining a place of business in this state who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser
to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser, and if unpaid, is
recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for delivering the
electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this article, and any
such tax collected by a person delivering electricity, shall constitute a debt
owed to the municipality by such person delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by adding such
tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons delivering
electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount
equal to 3% of the tax, to reimburse the person delivering electricity for the
expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing
returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the municipality upon request.
If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
municipality in the manner prescribed by the municipality. Person delivering
electricity who file returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of
riling such return, pay the municipality the amount of the tax collected
pursuant to this article.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-5 REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this article to a person delivering electricity as set
forth in §
36-3-4, and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax, shall make a
return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax;
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the city the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made, exclusive of
any amounts previously billed, with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-6 CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   (A)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this article, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due under this article, from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
   (B)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this article shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 36-3-7 PENALTY.
   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return,
or who willfully violates any other provision of this article shall be subject
to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
Statutory reference:
   See similar provisions, ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2
§ 36-3-8 DEFINITION OF PERSON OR PERSONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the terms PERSON or PERSONS referred to
herein shall include but not be limited to municipalities, corporations and all
other forms of organizations and electric providers.
(Ord. 1103, passed 7-19-1999)
ARTICLE IV: HOTEL TAX
Section
   
36-4-1   Definitions
   
36-4-2   Tax imposed
   
36-4-3   Books and records
   
36-4-4   Tax returns
   
36-4-5   Collection
   
36-4-6   Proceeds
   
36-4-7   Use of funds
   
36-4-8   Penalty
   
36-4-9   Lien
§ 36-4-1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   HOTEL. Any building or buildings, with eight units or more, in which the
public may, for a consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or
housekeeping accommodations. Includes inns, motels, Air BnB’s, VRBO’s,
temporary rental homes (31 days or less), tourist homes or courts, lodging
houses, rooming houses and apartment houses.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating a hotel.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   RENT or RENTAL. The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM or ROOMS. Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 36-4-2 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a tax of 5% of the gross rental receipts from
the renting, leasing or letting a hotel room within the city, provided,
however, that the tax shall not be imposed upon any person who occupies or has
the right to occupy any room or rooms in a hotel for at least 30 consecutive
days.
   (B)   The tax imposed herein shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel to secure
said tax from the renter of the hotel room, and to pay the amount of the tax to
the City Collector-Budget Officer under procedures described by the City
Collector-Budget Officer, or as otherwise provided in this article.
   (C)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this article shall
secure said tax from the renter at the time he or she collects the rental
payment for the hotel room. The amount due under the tax provided in this
article shall be stated separately on the invoice receipt or other memorandum
of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000; Am. Ord. 1898, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 36-4-3 BOOKS AND RECORDS.
   Each operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon, which records shall include the actual hotel tax
receipts collected. Such records shall be available for inspection and
examination for any proper purpose at any reasonable time upon demand by the
City Collector-Budget Officer or a duly authorized agent or employee of the
city, and shall be preserved for a period of three years. It shall be unlawful
for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the City Collector-Budget
Officer or the duly authorized agent or employee of the city in the discharge
of their duties in the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
Penalty, see § 36-4-8
§ 36-4-4 TAX RETURNS.
   (A)   Every operator shall file monthly with the City Collector-Budget
Officer a return of occupancy and of rents and of the taxes payable thereon on
forms prescribed by the Collector-Budget Officer and consistent with the
returns required under the "The Hotel Operators' Occupational Tax Act" found in
ILCS Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq. The return shall indicate the period for
which the return is to be filed. A separate return shall be filed for each
place of business within the city, regardless of ownership.
   (B)   The first taxing period for the purpose of this article shall commence
on October 1, 2000, and the tax return and payment for such period shall be due
on or before November 30, 2000. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax payments
shall be in accordance with the provisions of this article. At the time of
filing such tax returns, the operator shall pay the full amount of all tax due
hereunder.
   (C)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, interest at the rate
of 1% per 30-day period or portion thereof from the date of delinquency shall
be added to the tax and collected along with such tax.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
Penalty, see § 36-4-8
§ 36-4-5 COLLECTION.
   Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, the city
may bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 36-4-6 PROCEEDS.
   All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax hereunder, including
interest thereon, shall be paid into the treasury of the city, and shall be
credited to and deposited into the corporate funds of the city. All such
proceeds shall be separately accounted for by the City Collector-Budget
Officer.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 36-4-7 USE OF FUNDS.
   The amounts collected by the city pursuant to this article shall be expended
by the city solely to promote tourism and conventions within the city or
otherwise to attract nonresidents or overnight visitors to the city.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
§ 36-4-8 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
code shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 36-4-9 LIEN.
   The city shall have a lien for the tax herein imposed or any portion hereof,
or for any penalty provided for in this article, upon all the real and personal
property of any person who fails to pay, collect, report, or transmit the hotel
tax to the City Collector-Budget Officer in accordance with the terms of this
article. The procedures for notice and enforcement of the lien shall be the
same as that provided in the Retailers Occupation Tax Act, ILCS Ch. 35, Act
120, §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended, for State Tax Liens.
(Ord. 1155, passed 8-28-2000)
ARTICLE V: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
Section
   
36-5-1   Definitions
   
36-5-2   Tax imposed
   
36-5-3   Collection of tax by retailers
   
36-5-4   Returns to department
   
36-5-5   Resellers
   
36-5-6   Severability
   
36-5-7   Effective date
§ 36-5-1 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in such
municipality, regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money,
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate inter-
office channel provided within Illinois. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not
include:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: (a) the tax imposed by this article; (b) the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act; (c) the tax imposed by Section 4251 of the
Internal Revenue Code; (d) 911 surcharges; or (e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public
Utilities Act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois Commerce
Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent-collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment, and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under Section
9-222.1 of the Public Utilities Act, to the extent of such exemption, and
during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community
Affairs;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Act has already been paid to a retailer, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      (7)   BAD DEBTS, defined as any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards. If the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made;
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunication
devices; or
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Includes any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration to persons other than the federal and state
governments and state universities created by statute, and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption, and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act. For air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality, and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by the article.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, PRIVATE LINE means a
dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of inter-
company facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS,
subject to the tax imposed under this Act. For purposes of this section,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in Section 2-
27 of the Retailers' Occupations Tax Act.
(Ord. 1236, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 36-5-2 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving
in the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6%
of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multi-state taxation of the act or privilege that
is subject to taxation under this division (B), any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the
extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this article is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Ord. 1236, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 36-5-3 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this article, and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department, shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this article
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 1236, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 36-5-4 RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT.
   Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this article on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, being Public Act 92-526, Section 5-50,
and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to
implement this Act.
(Ord. 1236, passed 9-3-2002)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 36-5-5 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases, and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecom- munications in this state shall not be made
tax-free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is non-taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 1236, passed 9-3-2002)
§ 36-5-6 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of
this chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence
shall not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that
can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-3-2002)
§ 36-5-7 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on January 1, 2003. Copies of this chapter
shall be certified and sent to the Illinois Department of Revenue prior to
October 1, 2002.
(Ord. 1236, passed 10-3-2002)
CHAPTER 38: UTILITY SYSTEMS
ARTICLE I: ELECTRIC SYSTEMS
Section
Division I: General Information
   
38-1-1   Purpose
   
38-1-2   Committee on electric
   
38-1-3   Responsibility of Electric Department
   
38-1-4   Responsibility of customer
Division II: Establishment, Maintenance and Discontinuance of Service
Part A: Establishment of Service
   
38-1-5   Application for electric service
   
38-1-6   Inspection
   
38-1-7   Refusal of service
   
38-1-8   Use of service
   
38-1-9   Classification of customers
   
38-1-10   Establishment of credit
   
38-1-11   Deposit related to timely payment of bills
   
38-1-12   Application of rates
   
38-1-13   Extension of service requiring customer contribution
Part B: Maintenance of Service
   
38-1-14   Continuity of service
   
38-1-15   Billing for service
   
38-1-16   Consolidated bill; late payment penalty
Part C: Discontinuance of Service
   
38-1-17   Disconnection or refusal of service
   
38-1-18   Procedure for disconnection of city utility services
   
38-1-19   Non-accrual of rights
Division III: Extension of Service Facilities
Part A: General
   
38-1-20   Extension for new service
   
38-1-21   Character of service
   
38-1-22   Service entrance methods
   
38-1-23   Non-standard service
   
38-1-24   Charges for temporary electric service
   
38-1-25   Extraordinary investment by Electric Department for extension
Part B: Contribution to Cost of Extension and Allowances
   
38-1-26   Extension policy; electric distribution lines
   
38-1-27   Extensions for new service development
   
38-1-28   Code compliance
   
38-1-29   Utility facilities on customer's premises
   
38-1-30   Customer's responsibility for Electric Department's equipment
Division IV: Terms of Service and Rates and Charges
   
38-1-31   Metering
   
38-1-32   Increase in customer's load
   
38-1-33   Resale of service
   
38-1-34   Motors and apparatus
   
38-1-35   Sub-metering
   
38-1-36   Electric rates
   
38-1-37   Interpretation of law
   
38-1-38   Rented dusk-to-dawn lights
   
38-1-39   (Reserved)
   
38-1-40   Payment of attorneys' fees
DIVISION I: GENERAL INFORMATION
§ 38-1-1 PURPOSE.
   These rules and regulations are designed to govern the supply of electricity
from the city Electric Department, to the customer to ensure satisfactory, safe
and non-discriminatory department operation. They set forth the terms and
conditions for establishing, maintaining, and discontinuance of electric
service. They specify the terms of all agreements for service, except that the
Electric Department reserves the right to enter into special contracts as
provided herein.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-2 COMMITTEE ON ELECTRIC.
   The City Council standing Committee on Electric shall monitor the
implementation of Council policy by the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the department.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-3 RESPONSIBILITY OF ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Electric Department shall not be liable for interruption or
inadequacy or service, loss or damage to property, or injury (including death)
to any person caused by act of God, public enemy, vandalism, strikes and other
labor troubles or their equivalent, legal process, state, municipal or other
governmental regulation, windstorm, flood, fire or explosion, or other matter
or thing beyond the Electric Department's control, whether the same shall
affect or occur in connection with the operations on the property of the
customer, the Electric Department or any other person.
   (B)   The Electric Department shall not be responsible for damages for any
failure to supply electricity, or for interruption of the supply, if such
failure or interruption is without willful default or negligence on its part,
nor for interruptions to preserve the integrity of the Electric Department
system or interconnected systems.
   (C)   The Electric Department shall not be liable for injury (including
death) or damage to persons or property caused by electrical facilities or
equipment at any location owned or controlled by the customer, and the customer
shall hold harmless the Electric Department from all such injury (including
death) or damage except where the injury or damage shall be shown to have been
occasioned solely by the negligence of the Electric Department.
   (D)   The Director of Public Works shall have the right to reject any
application for service or to terminate service to any customer whose premises,
in the judgment of the Director of Public Works, are dangerous to persons or
are otherwise unsafe in the vicinity of the Electric Department's meter and
other facilities.
   (E)   Failure to reject an application for service or the commencement of
service by the Director of Public Works shall not constitute an admission,
acknowledgment or agreement, either express or implied, as to adequacy, safety
or other characteristics of any installation on the customer's premises not
owned or maintained by the Electric Department.
   (F)   The Electric Department adopts the requirements of the most recent
editions of the National Electrical Code (NEC NFPA 70) and the National
Electric Safety Code (NESC ANSI C2) and requires all applicants for electric
service to conform to these codes.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-4 RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   (A)   By applying for or taking electric service from the Electric
Department, the customer grants to the Electric Department the right to enter
upon the premises to be served and to install or remove, repair or maintain
thereon, its lines, meters and other facilities, for the purpose of serving
such customer. The customer shall afford the Electric Department's
representatives free access to the customer's premises at all reasonable hours
for the purpose of reading the meter, inspecting the metering and other
equipment relating to the Electric Department's service, repairing, testing or
removing its meter and equipment, and at any time in case of an emergency.
   (B)   The customer shall exercise due care to avoid damage to or dangerous
or unsafe conditions adjacent to the Electric Department's meter and the other
service facilities of the Electric Department located on or near the customer's
premises. If the customer's operations or the manner in which the customer uses
the Electric Department's service causes damage to the Electric Department's
facilities, the customer shall pay the amount of such damage to the Electric
Department on demand. If meters or other facilities belonging to the Electric
Department are damaged or destroyed due to negligence or misuse by the customer
or any member of his or her family, or by an officer, agent or employee of the
customer, or by sub-tenants, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements
shall be paid by the customer.
   (C)   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire
to any plumbing or water piping. The city will hold the owner of the premises
responsible and liable for any damage to the property, or injury to the
employees of the city caused by such ground wire. All owners and consumers
shall remove any existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the
city. If not so disconnected after five days written notice, the city, through
its officials, may enter the property and remove such ground wires and the
consumer shall pay all costs.
   (D)   Authorized agents of the Electric Department shall have access to the
customer's premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters,
making repairs, making inspections, removing Electric Department property, or
for any other purpose incident to the service.
   (E)   Except during times when electricity supply from the city is
unavailable or is temporarily interrupted other than by reason of
discontinuance of service to the particular premises for non-payment of
billings or otherwise pursuant to this Chapter 38, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, establishment or entity to supply or provide electricity in or
for any premises by means of any generator or other electricity-production
system, equipment or facility without the express written consent of the City
Council. This prohibition shall not apply to the use and operation of passive
solar electricity generation systems which are otherwise installed and operated
in accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (F)   Whenever these rules and regulations require the approval, or
permission of the Electric Department, it is the responsibility of the customer
to secure such approval or permission in writing from the Public Works Director
before proceeding to make a connection, use equipment or receive service.
   (G)   An electric customer may request that the city supplied meter be read
manually instead of remotely; the fee for such manual reading shall be $35 per
address, per month. A customer who requests that more than one utility meter be
read manually shall not be required to pay more than $35 total per address per
month.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1755, passed 4-16-2018)
DIVISION II: ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
PART A: ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE
§ 38-1-5 APPLICATION FOR ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for electric service for property inside the city. A
customer desiring service for property inside the city must make a written
application to the city on a printed form approved by the Director of Public
Works and provided for this purpose, which shall be signed by the customer
before commencing use of the Electric Department's service. The Electric
Department reserves the right to require a written contract for the service to
be furnished, whether the application is for a new service, a change in service
classification, unsealing of the service switch at premises formerly supplied,
or a transfer of responsibility for presently connected service from one
customer to another. Applications for new service or a change in service shall
specify the amount and types of electrical load to be connected to the electric
system so that the Electric Department may determine the adequate service of
sufficient capacity for the operation of the equipment to be serviced. Where an
applicant occupies more than one unit of space, each unit will be metered
separately, and a separate bill will be computed and rendered based on the
readings of each individual meter. All applications and contracts for service
shall be made in the legal name of the party to be obligated to pay for the
service. Receipt of service, however, shall constitute the receiver as a
customer of the Electric Department, subject to its rates, rules and
regulations, whether service is based upon a signed application, contract or
otherwise.
   (B)   Application for electric service for property outside the city.
      (1)   A customer desiring service for property outside the city must make
a written application to the city on a printed form provided for this purpose,
which shall be signed by the customer before commencing use of the Electric
Department's service. The Electric Department reserves the right to require a
written contract for the service to be furnished, whether the application is
for a new service, a change in service classification, unsealing of the service
switch at premises formerly supplied, or a transfer of responsibility for
presently connected service from one customer to another. Applications for new
service or a change in service shall specify the amount and types of electrical
load to be connected to the electric system so that the Electric Department may
determine the adequate service of sufficient capacity for the operation of the
equipment to be serviced. Where an applicant occupies more than one unit of
space, each unit will be metered separately, and a separate bill will be
computed and rendered based on the readings of each individual meter. All
applications and contracts for service shall be made in the legal name of the
party to be obligated to pay for the service. Receipt of service, however,
shall constitute the receiver as a customer of the Electric Department, subject
to its rates, rules and regulations, whether service is based upon a signed
application, contract or otherwise.
      (2)   If the property for which electric service is requested is
contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of the property
by the city: (a) then such property must be annexed to the city before such
electric service shall be provided; or (b) if a legally enforceable annexation
agreement acceptable to the city and a petition for annexation for such
property is tendered to the city by the owner of such property, then electric
service may be allowed upon tentative approval of the annexation agreement by
the City Council by the requisite vote required for final approval of an
annexation agreement pending final consideration and action upon such
annexation agreement.
      (3)   If the property for which electric service is requested is not
contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of the property
by the city, then before electric service shall be provided, a legally
enforceable annexation agreement acceptable to the city, which runs with the
property, must be tendered to the city by the owner of such property, wherein
such owner agrees that upon such property becoming contiguous to the boundary
of the city so as to permit annexation of such property by the city, that said
property shall be annexed to the city. Upon approval of such agreement by the
requisite vote required for annexation agreement, the request for electric
service may be allowed.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3), the
city may deny an application for electric service for property outside the city
if the city does not have the authority to furnish such service, or whenever
the City Council determines in its discretion that: (a) such electric service
would jeopardize or adversely affect the electric system of the city or
electric service to existing or committed future customers of electric service
within or without the city; or (b) existing service lines are determined to be
inadequate or inconveniently located for the requested service.
   (C)   Application by tenant. If the prospective customer is a tenant of the
premises to be served, the property owner, or his or her legal representative
or designated agent, must countersign the application before the application
will be granted. The services of the electric system shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the occupant and the owner of any such premises.
   (D)   Property owner liable. The property owner shall be held liable for all
charges left unpaid by any tenant where the property owner has countersigned
the application for service where the delinquent charges are not paid for by
the owner; provided, however, the property owner shall be liable only for the
installation and connection charges when he or she has signed the application
only for such purposes.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1149, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 38-1-6 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The application for new service shall contain a description of the
premises to be served. The Public Works Director or his or her representative
shall have the option of making an inspection of electric wiring of the
premises before electrical energy is supplied to determine the adequacy and
condition of the wiring.
   (B)   By inspecting a premises and approving it for electric service, the
city takes no responsibility in guaranteeing the safety or adequacy of the
wiring.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-7 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The Director of Public Works reserves the right to refuse or reject any
application for service in any of the following situations:
   (A)   Where the applicant does not furnish such guarantee or make the
necessary deposits or contributions required under the provisions of these
rules, or any other provision hereof;
   (B)   Where service to the applicant would involve extraordinary hazards to
the Electric Department's employees or equipment, other customer(s), or to the
public;
   (C)   Where service would contravene law, including orders or regulations of
lawfully constituted public agencies;
   (D)   Where it is apparent at the time of application that service would be
used in an illegal manner or for furtherance of an illegal purpose;
   (E)   Where the applicant owes the Electric Department for service furnished
to the applicant at the same or another address; or
   (F)   When the applicant resides outside the city limits.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-8 USE OF SERVICE.
   The following rules of service shall apply:
   (A)   (1)   The Public Works Director, or the representative, may deny
service to a customer when, in his or her opinion, the wiring and equipment is
unsafe or has objectionable characteristics. However, the city will cooperate
with the customer in order to determine the necessary remedial action for such
characteristics.
      (2)   All of the customer's lighting equipment, motor-driven equipment,
apparatus, and appliances shall have such characteristics or be equipped with
corrective devices so as to enable the city to maintain a satisfactory standard
of electric service. In the case of high motor starting current, violently
fluctuating or intermittent loads, and the like, the Electric Department
reserves the right and shall have the right to require the customer to install,
at the customer's expense, transformers and apparatus to correct the
objectionable conditions. These cases may include welders, hoists, elevator
motors, pumps, and similar apparatus.
   (B)   When a separate or oversized substation or transformer must be
installed specifically to eliminate the effect of the objectionable load
characteristic, and the distribution system would otherwise have the capacity
and equipment required to supply a normal load service of the same size, or
where separate transformers and/or services are installed at the customer's
request, to supply apparatus which may be abnormally sensitive to voltage, the
cost of such substation or transformer is considered a corrective device under
division (A) of this section, and shall be provided at the customer's expense.
   (C)   The Electric Department retains rates that are applicable to
industrial and commercial services which are based on all such customers
maintaining a power factor of not less than 85% lagging. In the event a
customer's power factor is less than 85% during periods of normal operation,
the Electric Department reserves the right to require the customer to install,
at his or her own expense, such corrective equipment as may be required to
increase the customer's power factor to not less than 85%.
   (D)   When a customer fails to install the necessary facilities on his or
her premises to correct the objectionable conditions of his or her load or
fails to prevent such objectionable conditions from interfering with the
Electric Department's supply of satisfactory service to other customers, the
Electric Department shall have the right to deny service to such customer until
the objectionable conditions shall have been corrected in a manner satisfactory
to the Electric Department.
   (E)   Where corrective equipment is installed by the Electric Department on
its distribution system to correct any objectionable conditions, the customer
whose service caused the objectionable conditions will be required to pay the
Electric Department, without refund, the installed cost of such corrective
equipment, which said corrective equipment shall remain the property of the
Electric Department. In lieu of such payment, and subject to approval by the
Electric Department, a customer may elect to pay a monthly charge equal to
1.25% of the installed cost of such corrective equipment installed by the
Electric Department.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-9 CLASSIFICATION OF CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   A customer or unit of service shall consist of any aggregation of
space, or area occupied for a distinct purpose such as a house, apartment,
flat, store, office, factory, and the like, which is equipped with one or more
fixtures for rendering service separate and distinct from other users. The
public portions of buildings, such as hallways, toilets, and the like, may be
treated separately, depending on the requirements. Customers, in general, are
classified as residential or nonresidential.
   (B)   Residential. A RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER is defined to include each
separate house, apartment, flat or other living quarters occupied by a person
or persons constituting a distinct household and using energy for operating
household appliances. Residence use may be extended to include the use of
energy for buildings which are adjacent to, connected with, and used
exclusively by the residence being served. In a multi-unit building, a separate
electric meter shall be installed for each such dwelling or unit.
   (C)   Nonresidential customers. A NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER is defined to
include each separate business enterprise, occupation, or institution taking
service through a single meter, occupying for its exclusive use any unit or
units of space as an entire building, entire floor, suite of rooms or a single
room; or, any customer not fitting into residential as defined above. A
separate electric meter shall be installed for each commercial unit in a multi-
unit building. In general, this nonresidential class is subdivided as follows:
      (1)   Single-phase service.
      (2)   Three-phase service.
   (D)   Special contracts. The Electric Department reserves the right to enter
into special contracts. In deciding whether to enter into a special contract,
the Electric Department will consider the overall economic impact the customer
is expected to have on the Electric Department and the overall economic impact
the customer is expected to have on the city.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1714, passed 2-6-2017)
§ 38-1-10 ESTABLISHMENT OF CREDIT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a customer whose service has been
disconnected for non-payment shall be deemed an applicant. If any applicant who
was a previous customer has failed to pay the Electric Department for past due
electric service, the Electric Department may refuse to provide service unless
the applicant pays any past due bill and pays the required deposit.
   (B)   If any new applicant for nonresidential service fails to establish
satisfactory credit with the city, the Director of Public Works may refuse to
provide service unless the applicant pays the required deposit.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-11 DEPOSIT RELATED TO TIMELY PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Deposit limitations. Deposits requested by the Electric Department
shall be subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   For residential service such deposit will be an amount of $125, due
upon application. Failure to comply with timely payment of bills or for
recurring disconnection may give the Electric Department grounds for requiring
a 100% increase in the required deposit amount.
      (2)   For nonresidential service such deposits may be an amount twice the
average monthly service billing.
   (B)   Deposit refund. Any deposit required by the Collector and held by the
city with respect to electric service, shall be refundable after one year of
non-delinquent payment for all electric charges, or upon termination of service
to the customer, if all bills have been paid and the city is satisfied that all
its meters and other equipment, if any, on the customer's premises have been
left accessible and undamaged. If service is terminated, the deposit less any
outstanding charges will be refunded to the customer. No interest shall be paid
on the deposit.
   (C)   Transfer of service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all electric charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon transfer of electric service for such customer from one
service location to another service location, so long as there has not been any
interruption of service to such customer for a period greater than six months.
   (D)   Additional service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all electric charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon application for an additional service location if such
customer is receiving electric service from the city at the time of such
application.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1145, passed 6-26-2000)
§ 38-1-12 APPLICATION OF RATES.
   The rate schedules apply when electricity is furnished in any one month to
one customer at one location for a class of service through one meter. The rate
schedules are based on delivery and billing service to the ultimate user for
retail service and do not permit resale or distribution.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-13 EXTENSION OF SERVICE REQUIRING CUSTOMER CONTRIBUTION.
   Each request for new service which requires a customer contribution as
specified in these electric service rules and regulations will require the
customer to enter into a written agreement pertaining to the terms of the
contribution. Such contribution shall be payable before acceptance of final
plat.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
PART B: MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE
§ 38-1-14 CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The Electric Department will use reasonable care to provide an
uninterrupted and regular supply of service to its customers. It does not
assume direct liability for losses or damage to persons or property due to its
service, or as a result of failure of the service, interruption or variation
because of an act of God, labor strike or any causes beyond the Electric
Department's control.
   (B)   The Electric Department reserves the right to curtail or temporarily
interrupt the customer's service when necessary to make repairs, replacement or
changes to the Electric Department's facilities either on or off the customer's
premises. The Electric Department will make an effort to notify customers of a
planned interruption of service in advance by use of the local news media.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-15 BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Regular.
      (1)   Bills for service will be rendered monthly unless otherwise
specified.
      (2)   The term MONTH, for billing purposes, will be the period between
any two consecutive readings of the meters by the Electric Department, such
readings to be taken as nearly as practicable every 30 days. All bills for
service shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Electric
Department's electric rate schedules effective at the time of rendering
service.
   (B)   Budget payment plan.
      (1)   A budget payment plan is available to all qualifying customers. A
budget payment plan may be established at any time of the year. The monthly
budget amount shall be calculated by the Collector on the basis of the
estimated consumption and estimated applicable rates through the end of the
budget year (May 1 through April 30). Customers who have arrears shall not be
allowed to establish a budget payment plan until their account has been without
arrears for 12 consecutive months.
      (2)   An applicant for a budget plan shall be informed at the time of
application that budget amounts shall be reviewed and changed every 12 months,
if necessary, in order to reflect current circumstances. Adjustments to the
budget amount will be made with the objective that the customer's under-billed
or over-billed balance at the end of the budget year shall be less than one
month's budget amount. Customers on the budget payment plan shall be notified
of adjustments through either a bill insert or message on the bill. When an
adjustment is made to a budget payment amount, the customer will be informed of
the adjustment at the same time the bill containing the adjustment is rendered.
      (3)   At the end of a budget year, if an under-billed or over-billed
balance exists in a customer's account, the balance shall be handled as
follows:
         (a)   A customer's debit balance will be paid in full, or the monthly
budget amount, whichever is greater.
         (b)   A customer's credit balance will be applied against the
customer's account or, at the customer's option, a refund shall be made.
      (4)   If a budget payment is not paid, the customer shall be notified
with the next billing that if proper payment is not received subsequent to this
notification, the next regular billing may cause the removal of the customer
from the budget plan and discontinuance of service.
   (C)   Estimated bill.
      (1)   In case any meter shall stop or for any reason fail to integrate
properly, or upon failure to read the meter, the Collector may estimate the
monthly bill for electric energy. Whenever possible, estimated bills will be
based on the same month of the prior year.
      (2)   The Electric Department will endeavor to make an actual reading of
the customer's meter at least every second billing period. A $25 service charge
will apply if the customer does not allow the utility meter to be accessible
after two consecutive billing periods in which an estimated bill has been
rendered. The Collector may render an estimated bill for any billing period in
which:
         (a)   The Electric Department has taken appropriate and reasonable
measures to read the customer's meter.
         (b)   The customer has knowingly and willfully denied reasonable
access to the Electric Department's representative for the purpose of taking an
actual meter reading.
         (c)   The customer has otherwise made an actual meter reading
unnecessarily difficult.
         (d)   Circumstances beyond the Electric Department's control make an
actual meter reading extremely difficult.
      (3)   Only in unusual cases will more than two consecutive estimated
bills be rendered.
   (D)   Billing for fractional month service. When a customer commences or
discontinues service between regular monthly meter reading dates, the Collector
will bill the customer as closely as possible to the date of disconnect.
   (E)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the city be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month, the
billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (F)   Failure of meters to register properly.
      (1)   In all cases where an Electric Department meter, because of
improper adjustment or defective parts, is found to be registering more than
plus or minus 3%, the Electric Department will refund or charge the customer
the difference between the actual billing and the billing corrected for the
error for each month when such over-registration or under-registration is known
to have existed. In the absence of definite information, adjustments will be
negotiated.
      (2)   In making the adjustments for errors in meter registrations, due
consideration will be given to the previous month's consumption, consumptions
in similar periods of other years, comparative uses and sizes of connected
loads, and any other relevant facts.
      (3)   Any Electric Department meter shall be taken out of service and
tested upon complaint of the customer upon payment of a fee of $225. If, upon
test, the meter is not within the previously stated tolerance, it shall be
repaired or replaced and the testing fee returned to the customer.
   (G)   Diversion of service.
      (1)   Where the Electric Department has reasonable evidence that a
customer is obtaining a supply of electricity, in whole or in part, by means of
devices or methods used to stop or interfere with the proper metering of the
electric service being delivered to the customer's equipment, the Electric
Department reserves the right to estimate and present immediately a bill for
service unmetered as a result of such interference, and such bill shall be
payable subject to disconnection of service.
      (2)   Any person using electrical energy from the Electric Department
without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking the seal of
any meter or switch, or who shall install wiring, make connections or attach
wires for any electric device or appliances to wires in a manner so that
electrical energy may be used without being supplied under the terms of this
code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   The Electric Department will reconnect or continue service to the
customer upon the following conditions:
         (a)   The customer will be required to deposit with the Electric
Department an amount sufficient to guarantee the amount of the customer's bill
for utility service;
         (b)   The customer will be required to pay the Electric Department for
any and all damages to its equipment on the customer's premises due to such
stoppage or interference with its metering;
         (c)   The customer must further agree to comply with reasonable
requirements to protect the Electric Department against further losses.
      (4)   The Electric Department reserves the right to pursue any and all
other legal rights against such customer.
   (H)   Vandalism.
      (1)   Any person who shall be found guilty of defacing, injuring or
destroying, or in any manner limiting the use of availability of any pole,
wire, insulator, fixture, lamp, meter or any property of the Electric
Department, or who shall erect signs on the property of the Electric Department
without permission shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   No customer or other person shall repair or remove any meter or
break any seal without the authority from the Electric Department, nor tamper
with or interfere with the integration of any meter.
      (3)   Employees of the Electric Department shall have the right to enter
upon all premises served by the said Electric Department for the purpose of
reading meters, inspection of meters, connections, and wiring in order to
ascertain whether or not all electric energy is being properly metered, and for
any other purpose that may be necessary to maintain proper service.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1651, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 38-1-16 CONSOLIDATED BILL; LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   Bills for all utility services, which presently include electric, gas, water
and sewer services, and for garbage and refuse collection, shall be
consolidated and mailed to all users of such services on or about the fifteenth
day of each month following the month during which services were used. Full
payment of all bills shall be due and payable on or before the fifth day of the
next month. If a bill is not paid on or before said date, a penalty equal to
10% of the total amount due on the current total utility and garbage and refuse
collection bill, exclusive of taxes, will be added thereto for each month or
part thereof, commencing with the calendar month for which services were
rendered and billed.
(Ord. 1214, passed 12-17-2001)
PART C: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE
§ 38-1-17 DISCONNECTION OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to discontinue electric service to any premises
due to the following reasons:
   (A)   Nonpayment of any charges for services at their current premises or
their prior premises.
   (B)   Where the owner or tenant of the premises has been found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or if a danger, hazard or
unsafe condition exists.
   (C)   Violation of the Electric Department's rules and regulations
pertaining to the use of service in a manner that interferes with the service
of others, or the operation of non-standard equipment, if the customer has
first been notified and provided with reasonable opportunity to remedy the
situation.
   (D)   Diversion of service around the meter.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1209, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1499,
passed 12-1-2008)
§ 38-1-18 PROCEDURE FOR DISCONNECTION OF CITY UTILITY SERVICES.
   City officers and employees shall follow the following internal procedures
for disconnection and reconnection of city utility services for city customers,
hereinafter referred to as “utility customer”, who are in default on payment of
their utility charges or other obligations for utility services, or who are in
violation of the city's regulations regarding the use of city utility services.
   (A)   Notice of termination. If the utility charges are not paid by a date
fixed by the Collector of the city in the shut-off notice, which date shall not
be less than ten days from the date of said notice, or if the utility customer
is in violation of any of the ordinances, rules or regulations of the city with
regard to city utility services, the city may discontinue such service after
the city mails a written notice to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail, or personally delivers the notice to the utility
customer or posts a notice on the premises to be disconnected of the city's
intention to discontinue utility services. The form of the shut-off notice
shall be prepared by the Collector of the city, hereinafter referred to as
“Collector”. If the utility customer is not the owner of the premises served
according to the city's records, said written notice may also be mailed to the
owner of the premises if such owner's name and address have previously been
filed with the Collector for the purpose of receiving such notices. The notice
shall state the utility charges and the date the delinquent bill is due or, if
applicable, the ordinance, rule or regulation which is alleged to have been
violated. The utility customer may contact the Collector for resolution of any
complaint in case a dispute concerning the amount due or other problems with
the account exist, and the utility customer is entitled to appeal any decision
of the Collector on any complaint and have a hearing on such appeal before the
City Utility Disconnect Committee of the City Council, hereinafter referred to
as the “Committee”.
   (B)   Administrative resolution. If, prior to disconnection of service, a
utility customer calls, visits or writes the Collector complaining of an
overcharge or other problem with the account, the Collector shall do one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Render a decision within seven days from the date or receipt of a
utility customer's written complaint and stay termination of services until the
Collector renders a decision or until all appeals are exhausted, whichever is
later;
      (2)   Cause an investigation, including but not limited to a meter
reading at the subject premises to investigate possible errors in billing,
leaks and connections;
      (3)   Establish a written credit plan in cases of proven financial
difficulties by the utility customer;
      (4)   If the Collector finds merit to the dispute, the Collector shall
make an adjustment of the utility customer's bill;
      (5)   If the Collector finds that the dispute has no merit, the Collector
shall communicate that decision to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail or personal notice to the utility customer or by posting
of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. The notice of the decision
shall specify that if the utility charges are not paid or the utility customer
does not appeal the decision on or before seven days from the date of mailing,
posting or delivery of said notice, the service shall be discontinued.
   (C)   Appeal hearing. Any utility customer may appeal the decision of the
Collector to the Committee within seven days of the date of the mailing,
posting or delivery of the decision of the Collector. If the utility customer
requests a hearing, the hearing date shall be scheduled for a regular or
special meeting of the Committee. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed
by first class U.S. mail. At such hearing, the utility customer shall have the
right to appear at the hearing in person and with a representative of his or
her choice, to present evidence in his or her own behalf and to examine any
evidence which the city might introduce. The Committee may conduct its own
investigation of the utility customer's complaint and may present any evidence
with respect thereto at the hearing. Within seven days after the conclusion of
the hearing, the Committee shall render a decision on the utility customer's
complaint. Such decision shall be communicated to the utility customer by
certified mail or by first class U.S. mail, by personal delivery or by posting
notice of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. If the decision is
unfavorable to the utility customer, notice of the decision shall specify that
if the utility charges are not paid or the violation is not abated on or before
seven days from the date of the service of the notice, the service shall be
disconnected.
   (D)   Credit extension. 
      (1)   When a utility customer's utility charges are in arrears because of
financial difficulties proven to the satisfaction of the Collector, or the
Committee in case of appeal, and the utility customer has not defaulted on a
previous credit extension, upon request to the Collector or the Committee, a
credit extension may be given by the Collector or the Committee to the utility
customer, whereby the utility customer shall pay the amount in arrears on the
basis of a deferred payment schedule agreed to by the Collector or the
Committee. The agreement shall be prepared by the Collector.
      (2)   If a utility customer defaults on the deferred payment schedule,
all utility charges in arrears shall be immediately due and payable, and no
further credit extensions shall be granted to that utility customer. No
additional hearing shall be required prior to the termination of utility
services if all outstanding charges are not paid before the termination date as
originally fixed or changed by the Collector or the Committee.
   (E)   Reinstatement of service. If service is discontinued because of non-
payment of utility chargers or because of violation of any ordinances, rules or
regulations of the city regarding utility service, such service shall not be
restored until all charges, costs and damages, if any, have been paid to the
city or the violation has been corrected. Prior to restoration, the additional
sum of $35 for each utility service provided shall be paid to the city for the
cost of reconnecting such utility service during regular working hours of city
utility employees. Regular working hours shall be the usual hours worked by
city utility employees in the field at that time of the year on Mondays through
Fridays and shall not include holidays and weekends. If a utility customer
requests the City Utility Department to make reconnection of utility services
other than during regular working hours and the Department agrees, then the
utility customer shall be required to pay the sum of $125 for each utility
service to cover the city's cost incurred for working city employees after
regular working hours or $50 for a remote reconnect (if available) performed
after regular working hours.
   (F)   Inclement weather. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, utility
service shall not be terminated on any day when the St. Louis, Missouri
National Weather Service forecast for the following 24 hours covering the area
in which the residence is located includes a forecast that the temperature will
be 32°F or below; or on any day preceding a holiday or a weekend when such a
forecast indicates that the temperature will be 32°F or below during the
holiday or weekend. Other extreme environmental conditions (e.g. heat, flood
and the like) may also be considered in the termination of utility services.
   (G)   Bills that are not paid. If the bills for utility services are not
paid within 60 days of the original mailing date, collection actions will be
taken to collect the bills. In the event suit is filed, the party liable for
the payment of such account shall pay the city's reasonable attorneys' fees and
reasonable costs of a collection agency.
   (H)   Insufficient funds check or Automated Clearing House (ACH). If the
city receives a check or ACH from a utility customer which is not paid on
presentment, that utility customer will be notified by the city, and the
utility customer shall be required to pay a $25 return check or ACH charge in
addition to the insufficient funds check or ACH amount, and said amount shall
be deemed additional utility charges.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1359, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1487,
passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. 1528, passed 9-21-2009; Am. Ord. 1826A, passed 6-21-
2021)
§ 38-1-19 NON-ACCRUAL OF RIGHTS.
   The provisions of §
38-1-18 are intended for administrative guidelines and use only by the City of
Waterloo, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as “city”, and shall not be
construed to confer any rights, claims or causes of action upon a utility
customer of any of the city's utility services on account of any disregard or
violation of the provisions of §
38-1-18.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001)
DIVISION III: EXTENSION OF SERVICE FACILITIES
PART A: GENERAL
§ 38-1-20 EXTENSION FOR NEW SERVICE.
   (A)   The Electric Department will make service extensions for the purpose
of serving applicant(s) under the following general terms and conditions:
      (1)   The location of the premises to be served shall be within a
territory where the Electric Department is permitted to render service.
      (2)   The Electric Department shall be supplied with an easement
satisfactory to the Electric Department from its existing lines to a point
adjacent to the premises proposed to be served.
      (3)   The applicant and the anticipated usage shall meet the requirements
of the applicable Electric Rate Schedule for the type service requested.
      (4)   Each request for new service which requires the applicant to pay a
contribution in aid of construction shall require the applicant to enter into
an agreement with the Electric Department covering the terms of the
contribution. The Electric Department shall not be required to start
construction until the contribution is paid in full.
      (5)   In the event the Electric Department shall require space for
facilities of any kind in order to provide service to the customer under any
applicable service classification, the customer shall furnish free of charge
adequate space satisfactory to the Electric Department for the location of such
equipment.
   (B)   The connection fee for a new service is as follows:
ASSIGNED COST - SERVICE ENTRANCE SIZE
ASSIGNED COST - SERVICE ENTRANCE SIZE
Service Class                      Rating   Capacity (Demand) Connection Fee
Residential, single-phase          200 Amp  6 KW              $1,200
Residential, single-phase          400 Amp  8 KW              $1,500
General service, single-phase      400 Amp  12 KW             $2,500
Large general service, three-phase 1200 Amp 34 KW             $7,000
Large general service, three-phase 1600 Amp 42 KW             $8,000
Large general service, three-phase 2000 Amp                   $10,000
Large general service, three-phase 2500 Amp                   $12,000
“Amp” means Amperes
“KW” means Kilowatts
 
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1225, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1301,
passed 6-21-2004; Am. Ord. 1604, passed 4-23-2012)
§ 38-1-21 CHARACTER OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Standard service.
      (1)   The standard form of electric service provided by the Electric
Department is overhead electric service. Overhead service shall be delivered to
the individual customer facility by means of overhead cables from the existing
overhead electric system to a designated point on the customer's facility of
sufficient height to comply with applicable code clearances. Standard service
entrance sizes and voltages are as follows:
 
Service Entrance Size
Voltage           100-amp 200-amp 400-amp and larger Available to
102v/240v 1-phase X       X       X                  All rates
120v/208v 3-phase X       X       X                  All rates, non-res.
240v 3-phase              X       X                  All rates, non-res.
277v/480v 3-phase                 X                  All rates, non-res.
480v 3-phase                      X                  All rates, non-res.
 
      (2)   All requests for service not conforming to these conditions shall
be considered non-standard service.
      (3)   Charges for standard service. The following connection fees shall
be paid by each customer requesting a change in an existing service:
         (a)   Overhead service connection/ existing overhead area: $500.
         (b)   Overhead service connection/ existing underground area: Not
available.
         (c)   Underground service connection/ existing overhead area: $500
         (d)   Underground service connection/ existing underground area: $500.
         (e)   Existing overhead service to be changed to underground: $500.
NOTE: cost for changing an existing overhead service to an underground service
does not include removal, demolition or replacement of any structure, i.e. dog
pens, storage sheds, concrete flatwork, fences, landscaping, and the like.
      (4)   Service connections include up to 100 circuit-feet of service line
conductor. It shall be the Public Works Director's responsibility to determine
the location at which the customer must install the service entrance. Such
location shall be the closest practical location to the Electric Department's
existing or proposed electrical facilities from which service is to be
provided. In determining the closest practical location, aesthetics shall not
be considered. customers requiring service line lengths greater than 100 feet
shall be charged for the excess footage above 100 feet at the following rates
per circuit-foot:
 
Service Entrance Size
Service Type    100 amp 200 amp 400 amp
1-phase service $1.25   $1.25   $1.50
3-phase service $2.00   $2.00   $2.50
 
      (4)   If the customer requests the service entrance to be at a location
other than the closest practical location to the Electric Department's existing
or proposed electrical facilities, excess footage shall be charged at the above
rates for all footage beyond the closest practical location.
      (5)   The owner or owner's contractor shall provide the service head,
riser conduit, and all other materials and installations required to make a
complete installation, as described on standard drawings provided by the
Electric Department. Meter sockets shall be located at a height of five feet
above final grade with all meters located outside of any building or restricted
area.
   (B)   (Reserved)
   (C)   Service line installation.
      (1)   Overhead connection, existing overhead area. Overhead service shall
be delivered to the individual residence by means of overhead cable from the
electric system pole structure to a designated point on the dwelling of
sufficient height to comply to applicable code clearances. The location of the
service entrance shall be such as to provide for the shortest route from the
structure to the home as practical. The owner or contractor shall provide the
service head, riser conduit, and all other materials and installation labor
required to make a complete installation. The city shall provide, without
charge, the meter and meter socket to be installed in the meter loop by the
customer.
      (2)   Overhead service connection, underground area. Overhead service in
an underground service area will not be permitted unless, in the opinion of the
Public Works Director, that due to engineering considerations, this is the only
feasible and practical manner in which service may be provided.
      (3)   New and existing underground service connection, existing overhead
area. Underground service in an overhead service area will be available,
provided engineering considerations will not prohibit service, in the opinion
of the Public Works Director.
      (4)   Underground service connection, existing underground area. In areas
designated for underground service, the services shall be delivered to the
residences by means of a buried cable from pedestal, vault or pad mount
transformer located on or near the property line to a point designated on the
dwelling. The location of the service entrance shall be such as to provide the
shortest route from the pedestal, vault or pad mounted transformer to the house
as may be practical. All obstructions such as debris, dirt piles, brush, and
the like shall be removed prior to the installation of service, and the lot
shall also be graded to within one foot of final grade. The owner or contractor
shall provide the necessary equipment to provide a complete installation.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1604, passed 4-23-2012)
§ 38-1-22 SERVICE ENTRANCE METHODS.
   (A)   Drawings depicting approved service installations shall be furnished
to any user, contractor, or prospective user upon completion of a service
application.
   (B)   The drawings for each type of service entrance shall be as recommended
by the Public Works Director and as approved by the Electric Utility Committee.
   (C)   The Public Works Director shall, from time to time, propose revisions
to the service entrance drawings. Revisions shall take effect for any new
construction started 15 days after approval of the Electric Utility Committee.
   (D)   Any new, rebuilt, or upgraded service entrances shall comply with the
approved drawings. Failure to comply with the approved drawings shall be
sufficient cause to refuse service.
   (E)   Service will be furnished to customers only after a meter has been
installed by the Electric Department.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-23 NON-STANDARD SERVICE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation requesting non-standard electrical
service may enter into a contract with a private contractor approved by the
city for the installation of electric service pursuant to plans and
specifications presented to and approved by the city. If a private contractor
is used for the installation of electric service, the applicant shall pay to
the city its costs incurred with respect to the inspection and monitoring of
the installation of such electrical services by the private contractor. The
charge is payable at the time the application for electric service is approved.
The installation shall be inspected and approved by the city prior to
initiating electric service. After approval of the installation, the city shall
accept maintenance of the electrical service equipment up to and including the
meter.
   (B)   Or, if requested by the applicant, the city will provide the applicant
with the total estimated cost to the city to install the electrical service.
The estimated cost shall include all materials, labor, equipment, engineering
and related items required to complete the electrical installation. The
applicant may authorize the city to complete the installation and the charge
shall be paid by the applicant at the time the application for electric service
is approved.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1301, passed 6-21-2004)
§ 38-1-24 CHARGES FOR TEMPORARY ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   Charges for a temporary service connection shall be $50. If temporary
service is eventually changed to a permanent service, the customer will be
charged additionally the cost for permanent service.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-25 EXTRAORDINARY INVESTMENT BY ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT FOR EXTENSION.
   Where, in the opinion of the Electric Department, its investment in an
extension appears extraordinary or unusual, or where extensive rebuilding of
existing facilities is necessary to accommodate an applicant, the applicant to
be served from the extension shall be required to execute a contract for a
definite period of service to protect the Electric Department against possible
risk for the investment made to serve the applicant.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
PART B: CONTRIBUTION TO COST OF EXTENSION AND ALLOWANCES
§ 38-1-26 EXTENSION POLICY; ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION LINES.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall not bear the costs of installing electric
distribution lines within a platted residential subdivision; commercial
installations; or industrial installation, either inside or outside the
corporate limits.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation installing electrical distribution
lines may enter into a contract with a private contractor approved by the city
for the installation of electrical distribution lines pursuant to plans and
specifications presented to and approved by the city. If a private contractor
is used for the installation of electric distribution lines, the applicant
shall pay to the city its costs incurred with respect to the inspection and
monitoring of the installation of such electrical distribution lines by the
private contractor. The charge is payable at the time the application for
electric service is approved. The installation shall be inspected and approved
by the city prior to initiating electric service. After approval of the
installation, the city shall accept maintenance of the electrical system.
   (B)   Or, if requested by the applicant, the city will provide the applicant
with the total estimated cost to the city to install the electrical
distribution line. The estimated cost shall include all materials, labor,
equipment, engineering and related items required to complete the electrical
installation. The applicant may authorize the city to complete the installation
and the charge shall be paid by the applicant at the time the application for
electric service is approved.
   (C)   Extension of electric distribution and services outside the city
limits shall be subject to special approval of the city and shall be subject to
all of the rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein or as may be
amended. All lines and equipment shall become the property of the city upon
construction by the city or acceptance by the city when constructed by an
electrical contractor approved by the city.
   (D)   This section applies to electric distribution line extensions. Charges
for service lines are stated in other provisions of the city code.
   (E)   The charges provided for in this section shall be effective as of June
1, 2002 and thereafter.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1225, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 38-1-27 EXTENSIONS FOR NEW SERVICE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   This section shall apply to those situations where a request for
electric service will require an extension and/or modification to the primary
distribution system, and where the Electric Department determines that it is in
the best interests of the city to share in the cost of said system extension
and/or modification, considering the social and economic benefit to be derived
by the public from said extension and/or modification. It is anticipated that
this section would have application in regard to industrial and commercial
projects, as well as residential subdivisions and multi-family housing
development.
   (B)   When making application for an extension and/or modification of the
primary distribution system to serve a proposed development, the applicant
shall furnish the Public Works Director with sufficiently complete development
plans and electric service requirements and usage data to enable the Public
Works Director to determine the specific extension and/or modification to the
primary distribution system required to serve the proposed project.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-28 CODE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Every contractor or person responsible for the installation of the
customer's electric lines, appliances and other equipment related to electric
service shall comply with the provisions of these Electric Service Rules and
Regulations.
   (B)   If, upon inspection by the Public Works Director or the
representative, certain installations are found to contain discrepancies, such
discrepancies shall be corrected before permanent connection of service will be
completed; or at its option, the Director of Public Works may mail the customer
a written request demanding conformity within a ten-day period or any prior
service connection made by the Electric Department will be disconnected and
terminated.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 38-1-29 UTILITY FACILITIES ON CUSTOMER'S PREMISES.
   (A)   This rule shall apply to the distribution facilities required to serve
either a group of customers in multi-tenancy premises or a single customer
where, in either case, the Electric Department finds that it is necessary to
install portions of such facilities on the premises being served. Such customer
or property owner, when requested by the Electric Department, shall make
provision on the customer's property for the installation of Electric
Department-owned facilities required for this service or services.
   (B)   Electric Department facilities shall consist of those which, in the
opinion of the Electric Department, are necessary to furnish adequate service.
The Electric Department will design such installations and will install
facilities which, in its opinion, are most economical or feasible to the
Electric Department, under the conditions met. Where the Electric Department's
installation is located in a property owner's building, the applicable
provisions of these Electric Service Rules and Regulations shall be observed,
except that metering devices shall be externally accessible.
   (C)   A customer or property owner shall furnish, own and maintain the
necessary indoor or outdoor enclosures, building structural supports and
accessories as specified by the Electric Department.
   (D)   If a customer or property owner requests any changes in the plan
proposed by the Electric Department, he or she shall pay the Electric
Department, in advance of construction, the estimated excess cost of the
substituted installation.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-30 CUSTOMER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT'S EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible for all damage to the Electric
Department's equipment, and for all loss resulting from interference or
tampering therewith caused by the customer, including compensation for consumed
service not recorded by the meter.
   (B)   Meters are sealed by the Electric Department and such seals shall not
be broken or tampered with without the consent of the Electric Department,
except in case of emergency. The Electric Department should be notified as soon
as possible after a seal has been broken.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
DIVISION IV: TERMS OF SERVICE AND RATES AND CHARGES
§ 38-1-31 METERING.
   The following metering rules and regulations shall be adhered to:
   (A)   Where. All locations of customer service by the Electric Department
shall be metered. Meters shall be provided and installed by the Electric
Department. If, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, a situation
dictates that a service be unmetered due to the lack of a proper meter, the
customer will be billed on a flat rate, as determined by the Electric
Department. All apartments or multi-constructed units must be provided with
individual meters.
   (B)   Location. All meters shall be mounted on an exterior wall in an easily
accessible location, as designated by the Public Works Director or his or her
appointed representative.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 38-1-32 INCREASE IN CUSTOMER'S LOAD.
   (A)   When a customer makes application for service, he or she shall specify
the amount of electrical load to be connected to the electrical system so that
the Electric Department may determine the adequate service of sufficient
capacity for the operation of the equipment to be serviced.
   (B)   The customer's connected load shall not be increased beyond the limits
hereinafter stated until the customer has given written notice to the city and
the additional load has been approved by the Public Works Director, unless the
load increases a total of three HP or less, or electrical additions total 20
amperes or less, in which case an electrical load increase will not require
notification.
   (C)   If a customer does not give proper notice of increased electrical
load, the customer will be liable for any damage to the electric system
equipment resulting from the increased load. Furthermore, any person who
installs additional electrical loads in excess of those loads not requiring
notification without reporting to the city and obtaining approval of the Public
Works Director, shall, upon conviction of such failure to notify, be fined not
less than $25, nor more than $100. The city may elect to refuse to furnish
electrical energy to any person or corporation found guilty of failing to
report an increased electric load that requires such notification.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-33 RESALE OF SERVICE.
   Electrical energy provided by the Electric Department shall not be sold to a
third party or otherwise disposed of by a third party. The energy provided by
the Electric Department shall be for the sole use of its customers.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-34 MOTORS AND APPARATUS.
   Motors and apparatus shall be as follows:
   (A)   The Electric Department reserves the right to select the type of
service to be supplied and shall be consulted before equipment is purchased or
ordered by a customer, regarding the general characteristics of service,
including those services having motors of 5 HP and larger or where the
aggregate load of smaller motors is more than 7-1/2 HP.
   (B)   In general, 7-1/2 HP and larger motors will be three-phase. There may
be, at the Electric Department's sole discretion, exceptions to this rule.
      (1)   In outlying and residential areas where three-phase energy is not
readily available, larger single-phase motors may be permitted, but only with
the prior approval of the Public Works Director.
      (2)   Where the customer is already using three-phase energy, motors
smaller than 7-1/2 HP may be added to the three-phase service, upon
notification to the Electric Department, if elsewhere required.
      (3)   Three-phase service is not normally available for residential
customers and is considered non-standard service.
   (C)   Motors and motorized equipment will generally be approved for use on
the electric system only if the total locked rotor current does not exceed an
acceptable level, as determined by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   If starting currents are objectionable and will cause interference on
the electric system in the judgment of the Public Works Director, reduced
voltage starting or such other methods as the Public Works Director determines
feasible will be required to be furnished by the customer.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 38-1-35 SUB-METERING.
   No sub-metering shall be permitted except by a regular established service
company or municipality who is established as a distributor of electric energy.
Energy sold under this code is for the use of the customer and not for resale.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-36 ELECTRIC RATES.
   There are hereby established rates and charges for the use and service of
electric current for light and power based upon electricity consumed as
recorded by electric meters based upon the type of premises serviced. The rates
shall be on the basis of a single meter for one customer.
   (A)   Residential service. The rates established are available to single
phase electric service for family dwelling units for all domestic uses.
      (1)   Monthly customer charge:    $12.00 per month.
      (2)   Non-energy charge: All kWh used per month: $0.02746 per kWh
   (B)   General service. The rates established are available to single phase
electric service non-residential customers for lighting and power purposes.
      (1)   Monthly customer charge:    $22.00 per month
      (2)   Non-energy charge: All kWh used per month: $0.02935 per kWh
   (C)   Medium general service. The rates established are available to three
phase electric service non-residential customers for lighting and power
purposes. This service is available for customers not eligible for the large
general service customer class.
      (1)   Monthly customer charge:    $54.00 per month
      (2)   Non-energy charge: All kWh used per month: $0.03252 per kWh
   (D)   Large general service. The rates established are available to three
phase electric service non-residential customers for lighting and power
purposes. This service is available to non-residential customers with a minimum
monthly peak demand of 275 kW for at least six months in each calendar year, a
minimum monthly peak demand of 25 kW for at least six months in each calendar
year with a minimum monthly load factor of 50% for at least ten months in each
calendar year.
      (1)   Monthly customer charge:    $54.00 per month
      (2)   Demand charge: $15.00 per kW for all kW of billing demand
      (3)   Non-energy charge: All kWh used per month: $0.03204 per kWh
   (E)   Monthly energy charge.
      (1)   The stated charges shall be supplemented by the actual energy price
charged by the supplier of electricity purchased by the city and the actual
cost of fuel consumed at the city’s power plant. The collector is hereby
empowered and directed to determine the amount of said supplement upon a per-
KWH basis and thereafter, effective for the billing period next following the
effective date of the invoice of the energy charges, to calculate the energy
rate charged all purchasers of electricity from the city.
      (2)   The calculation for demand rates shall be as follows:
 
1.   Total KWH sold                                  ______KWH
2.   Purchased KWH cost                              $ _______
3.   Prior month adjustment                          $ _______
4.   Total demand customer energy charge: [(2)+(3)]/($________
 
      (3)   The calculation for non-demand rates shall be as follows:
1.   Total KWH sold                                           ______KWH
2.   Purchased KWH cost                                       $ _______
3.   Prior month adjustment                                   $ _______
4.   Total demand customer energy charge: [(2)+(3)]/(1)       $ _______
5.   Purchased KW cost                                        $ _______
6.   Power plant fuel oil cost                                $ _______
7.   Power plant natural gas cost                             $ _______
8.   IMEA fuel reimbursement                                  $ _______
9.   Total KW cost: (5)+(6)+(7)+(8)                           $ _______
10.   Total KW sold                                           _______KW
11.   Demand revenue: $15*(10)                                $ _______
12.   Unrecovered demand cost/KWH: [(9)-(11)]/(1)             $_____/KW H
13.   Non-demand customer KWH                                 _______KW H
14.   Total non-demand customer energy charge: (4)+(12)*(13)/($_____/KW H
 
      (4)   The previous calculation is made on an average of the three most
recent month’s charges by the supplier of electricity purchased by the city,
the corresponding three months of sales, and the corresponding three months of
fuel expense records.
   (F)   Annual operations expense adjustment. Any positive changes in
operating expenses, not including cost of power, shall be passed uniformly and
directly to all bills rendered after such determination has been made by the
Collector of the city. The determination shall be made by comparing the latest
fiscal audit report with the operating expenses recorded for the preceding
fiscal year. Each year the Collector will subtract the latest fiscal expenses
by the preceding year’s expenses and the results will be divided by the latest
energy consumption (kWh). The “non-energy charge” will be adjusted by adding
the resulting number to create a new base non-energy charge.
   However, the "non-energy charge" shall remain unchanged from the prior year
for the 2022-2023 fiscal year.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1094, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 1209,
passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1697, passed 3-28-2016; Am. Ord. 1713, passed 2-6-
2017; Am. Ord. 1773, passed 12-17-2018; Am. Ord. 1848, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 38-1-37 INTERPRETATION OF LAW.
   The city reserves the authority to interpret these Rules and Regulations,
construe the same in all its sections and parts, and to hear and determine any
and all disputes arising from the application and enforcement of them.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998)
§ 38-1-38 RENTED DUSK-TO-DAWN LIGHTS.
   Private lighting luminaries (dusk-to-dawn lighting services) for homes,
schools, security, churches, commercial areas, and industry shall be provided
where feasible and in keeping with good electrical practice, as per the
following specifications:
   (A)   (1)   A self-contained automatic dusk-to-dawn lighting fixture shall
be furnished and installed, or caused to be installed, by the Electric
Department; such fixture is to meet the standards and specifications of the
Electric Department, on an existing wood pole structure. LED lighting fixtures
under 149 watts shall have a monthly charge of $10 per fixture, and will be
added to the customer's monthly electric bill; and shall become an integral
part of said bill for a minimum two-year period. LED lighting fixtures with 150
watts or above will have a monthly charge to be determined by the Electric
Department, at the time of application, for a minimum two-year period.
      (2)   The Electric Department will be responsible for making the
installation, furnishing the electricity for the operation of the lamp, provide
all necessary maintenance, including the normal replacement of lamps, for the
two-year period and all subsequent time additions to the length of service, as
agreed to by the Electric Department.
   (B)   Should the installation of a standard lighting unit require the
installation, by the Electric Department, of additional facilities not required
by the Electric Department for distribution purposes other than the private
outdoor lighting to be installed, the Electric Department will furnish,
install, own and maintain the additional facilities, including wood poles,
which may be necessary to provide such lighting from nearby distribution lines.
The Electric Department will make a net monthly charge, in addition to the
charge set forth above, of 1.25% of the additional cost to the Electric
Department of furnishing and installing such additional facilities.
   (C)   A two-year minimum contract shall be agreed to and signed by each
customer desiring dusk-to-dawn lighting service, authorizing fixed monthly
charges to be applied to the monthly electric bill. In the event that a
customer desires the removal of the unit or discontinuance of the service, the
remainder of the charges to complete a two-year contract shall become due and
payable by the customer.
   (D)   Dusk-to-dawn lighting shall be installed on poles with a normal
ground-to-lamp height of approximately 25 feet. Should a customer desire his or
her lighting on steel, aluminum, concrete, or decorative-type poles, the
Electric Department may, at its discretion, install or cause the special
service to be installed. The customer shall bear the total cost that is above
that of a normal pole installation and the additional charge shall be payable
by the customer prior to the installation.
   (E)   The customer shall have the responsibility to notify the Electric
Department of any interruption of service of the dusk-to- dawn lighting. The
Electric Department will restore service only during regularly scheduled
working hours. In the event the Electric Department is unable to effect repairs
not caused by the customer, the Electric Department’s only responsibility will
be to abate the charges on a pro-rata basis for each day in which service is
not available. The customer shall remove any obstruction to the installation of
the Electric Department-owned facilities. Trimming of trees to improve the
distribution of light shall be the customer’s responsibility. The customer
shall provide any permits or easements required for the installation or
maintenance of the Electric Department-owned facilities; and permit access to
such facilities by the Electric Department vehicles and personnel.
(Ord. 1059, passed 3-2-1998; Am. Ord. 1749, passed 2-5-2018; Am. Ord. 1896,
passed 12-2-2024)
§ 38-1-39 (RESERVED).
§ 38-1-40 PAYMENT OF ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   If the city proceeds in any court of record to enforce and/or defend any
provision of §§
38-1-1 through
38-1-38 herein, as from time to time amended, and is successful in either the
enforcement or defense proceedings as referred to herein, the city shall
recover its reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in the course of
those proceedings from the person and/or entity who has been found to have
violated any provision of §§
38-1-1 through
38-1-38 herein and/or who has initiated the proceedings.
(Ord. 1380, passed 8-7-2006)
ARTICLE II: GAS SYSTEM
Section
Division I: Administration
   
38-2-1   Gas Committee
   
38-2-2   Billing for gas service
Division II: Regulations
   
38-2-3   Application for natural gas service; deposit
   
38-2-4   Property owner liable
   
38-2-5   Penalty added
   
38-2-6   Operating expense adjustment
   
38-2-7   Specifications for main and service connections
   
38-2-8   All service shall be metered
   
38-2-9   Meters and the like to be open to inspection
   
38-2-10   Meter reading conclusive
   
38-2-11   Test of meters
   
38-2-12   Definition of therm
   
38-2-13   Separate meters for each distinct building
   
38-2-14   Damage to meter, regulator or city-owned equipment
   
38-2-15   City not liable for an interruption of service or supply
   
38-2-16   General rules
   
38-2-17   Regulations relative to customer's piping, facilities, appliances and
venting
   
38-2-18   Tampering with meter, regulator or any parts of the gas system
belonging to the city
   
38-2-19   Resale of gas prohibited
   
38-2-20   Notification of pipeline location
Division III: Rates
   
38-2-21   Connection charges and service lines
   
38-2-22   Gas rates
   
38-2-23   Gas charge and taxes
   
38-2-24   Special rates
   
38-2-25   Procedure for disconnection of city utility services
   
38-2-26   Discontinuation or refusal of service
   
38-2-27   Temporary rate increases
   38-2-28 - 38-2-30   (Reserved)
Division IV: Extensions
   
38-2-31   Extension policy
   
38-2-32   Payment of attorneys' fees
DIVISION I: ADMINISTRATION
§ 38-2-1 GAS COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Gas shall monitor the implementation
of Council policy by the Director of Public Works. The Director of Public Works
shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall, from time to time
report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full understanding
thereof shall be had, and generally shall do all acts necessary to promote the
efficiency of the Department.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-1) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-2 BILLING FOR GAS SERVICE.
   (A)   Regular.
      (1)   Bills for service will be rendered monthly unless otherwise
specified.
      (2)   The term "month", for billing purposes, will be the period between
any two consecutive readings of the meters by the Gas Department, such readings
to be taken as nearly as practicable every 30 days. All bills for service shall
be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Gas Department's Rate
Schedule effective at the time of rendering service.
   (B)   Budget payment plan.
      (1)   A budget payment plan is available to all qualifying customers. A
budget payment plan may be established at any time of the year. The monthly
budget amount shall be calculated by the Collector on the basis of the
estimated consumption and estimated applicable rates through the end of the
budget year (May 1 through April 30). Customers who have arrears shall not be
allowed to establish a budget payment plan until their account has been without
arrears for 12 consecutive months.
      (2)   An applicant for a budget plan shall be informed at the time of
application that budget amounts shall be reviewed and changed every 12 months,
if necessary, in order to reflect current circumstances. Adjustments to the
budget amount will be made with the objective that the customer's under-billed
or over-billed balance at the end of the budget year shall be less than one
month's budget amount. Customers on the budget payment plan shall be notified
of adjustments through either a bill insert or message on the bill. When an
adjustment is made to a budget payment amount, the customer will be informed of
the adjustment at the same time the bill containing the adjustment is rendered.
      (3)   At the end of a budget year, if an under-billed or over-billed
balance exists in a customer's account, the balance shall be handled as
follows:
         (a)   A customer's debit balance will be paid in full, or the monthly
budget amount, whichever is greater.
         (b)   A customer's credit balance will be applied against the
customer's account or, at the customer's option, a refund shall be made.
      (4)   If a budget payment is not paid, the customer shall be notified
with the next billing that if proper payment is not received subsequent to this
notification, the next regular billing may cause the removal of the customer
from the budget plan and discontinuance of service.
   (C)   Estimated bill.
      (1)   In case any meter shall stop or for any reason fail to integrate
properly, or upon failure to read the meter, the Collector may estimate the
monthly bill for gas service. Whenever possible, estimated bills will be based
on the same month of the prior year.
      (2)   The Gas Department will endeavor to make an actual reading of the
customer's meter(s) at least every second billing period. A $25 service charge
will apply if the customer does not allow the gas meter to be accessible after
two consecutive billing periods in which an estimated bill has been rendered.
The Collector may render an estimated bill for any billing period in which:
         (a)   The Gas Department has taken appropriate and reasonable measures
to read the customer's meter(s).
         (b)   The customer has knowingly and willfully denied reasonable
access to the Gas Department's representative for the purpose of taking an
actual meter reading.
         (c)   The customer has otherwise made an actual meter(s) reading
unnecessarily difficult.
         (d)   Circumstances beyond the Gas Department's control make an actual
meter(s) reading extremely difficult.
      (3)   Only in unusual cases will more than two consecutive estimated
bills be rendered.
   (D)   Billing for fractional month service.  When a customer commences or
discontinues service between regular monthly meter reading dates, the Collector
will bill the customer as closely as possible to the date of disconnect.
   (E)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the city be unable to bill a customer for service used during any month, the
billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (F)   Consolidated bill; late payment penalty. Bills for all utility
services, which presently include electric, gas, water and sewer services, and
for garbage and refuse collection, shall be consolidated and mailed to all
users of such services on or about the fifteenth day of each month following
the month during which services were used. Full payment of all bills shall be
due and payable on or before the fifth day of the next month. If a bill is not
paid on or before said date, a penalty equal to 10% of the total amount due on
the current total utility and garbage and refuse collection bill, exclusive of
taxes, will be added thereto for each month or part thereof, commencing with
the calendar month for which services were rendered and billed.
(Ord. 1214, passed 12-17-2001)
DIVISION II: REGULATIONS
§ 38-2-3 APPLICATION FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICE; DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Application for natural gas service for property inside the city. An
applicant desiring gas service for property inside the city or an existing
customer requesting additional or changed gas service for property inside the
city shall complete and file with the Business Office, an “Application for
Natural Gas Service.” The application shall be in a form approved by the
Director of Public Works, copies of which may be obtained from the Business
Office or at the City Hall.
   (B)   Application for natural gas service for property outside the city. Any
prospective customer requesting new gas service for property outside the city
or an existing customer requesting additional or changed gas service for
property outside the city shall complete and file with the Business Office, an
“Application for Natural Gas Service.” The application shall be in a form
approved by the Director of Public Works, copies of which may be obtained from
the Business Office or at the City Hall.
      (1)   If the property for which gas service is requested is contiguous to
a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of the property by the city:
(a) then such property must be annexed to the city before such a service shall
be provided; or (b) if a legally enforceable annexation agreement acceptable to
the city and a petition for annexation for such property are tendered to the
city by the owner of such property, then gas service may be allowed upon
tentative approval of the annexation agreement by the City Council by the
requisite vote required for final approval of annexation agreement pending
final consideration and action upon such annexation agreement.
      (2)   If the property for which gas service is requested is not
contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of the property
by the city, then before gas service shall be provided, a legally enforceable
annexation agreement acceptable to the city, which runs with the property, must
be tendered to the city by the owner of such property, wherein such owner
agrees that upon such property becoming contiguous to the boundary of the city
so as to permit annexation of such property by the city, that said property
shall be annexed to the city. Upon approval of such agreement by the requisite
vote required for annexation agreement, the request for gas service may be
allowed.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2), the
city may deny an application for gas service for property outside the city if
the city does not have authority to furnish such service, or whenever the City
Council determines in its discretion that: (a) such gas service would
jeopardize or adversely affect the gas system of the city or gas service to
existing or committed future customers of gas service within or without the
city; or (b) existing main lines are deemed to be inadequate or inconveniently
located for the requested service.
   (C)   Application by tenant. If the prospective customer is a tenant of the
premises to be served, the property owner, or his or her legal representative
or designated agent must countersign the application before the application
will be granted. The services of the gas system shall be deemed to be furnished
to both the occupant and the owner of any such premises.
   (D)   Deposit. If required by the collector, a meter deposit in the amount
of $125 must be made.
   (E)   Deposit refunds. Any deposit required by the Collector and held by the
city with respect to gas service shall be refundable after one year of non-
delinquent payment for all gas charges, upon termination of service to the
customer, if all bills have been paid and the city is satisfied that all its
meters and other equipment, if any, on the customer’s premises, have been left
accessible and undamaged. If service is terminated, the deposit less any
outstanding charges will be refunded to the customer. No interest shall be paid
on the deposit.
   (F)   Transfer of service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all gas charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon transfer of gas service for such customer from one service
location to another service location, so long as there has not been an
interruption of service to such customer for a period greater than six months.
   (G)   Additional service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all gas charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon application for gas service for an additional service
location if such customer is receiving gas service from the city at the time of
such application.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-3) (Ord. 697, passed 4-16-1984; Am. Ord. 726, passed 2-3-
1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-1991; Am. Ord. 1148, passed 7-17-2000)
§ 38-2-4 PROPERTY OWNER LIABLE.
   The property owner shall be held liable for all charges left unpaid by any
tenant where the property owner has countersigned the application for service
where said delinquent charges are not paid for by said owner; provided,
however, the property owner shall be liable only for the installation and
connection charges when he or she has signed the application only for such
purposes.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-4) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-5 PENALTY ADDED.
   Any customer refusing or neglecting to pay a statement for gas service shall
be deprived of the use of gas and the city shall stop gas supply to such
customer until such time that all past due statements for gas service are paid,
including all penalties and charges, as provided for in this Article 11 and in
Article V of
Chapter 38 of the city code relating to consolidated bills for utility services
and garbage and refuse collection.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-5) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 12-26-2001)
§ 38-2-6 OPERATING EXPENSE ADJUSTMENT.
   Any changes in operating expenses, not including cost of gas, shall be
passed uniformly and directly to all bills rendered after such determination
has been made by the Collector of the city. The determination shall be made by
comparing the latest fiscal audit report with the operating expenses recorded
for the preceding fiscal year. Each year the Collector will subtract the latest
fiscal expenses by the preceding year's expenses and the results will be
divided by the latest year's natural gas consumption (MMBTU). The “base gas
rate” will be adjusted by adding the resulting number to create a new base gas
rate. (see exhibit below)
(Latest fiscal expenses) $1,050,000
(Preceding year expenses) $1,000,000 = $50,000
$50,000 / annual MMBTU's (300,000) = $0.1666
(Current Rate) $3.10 + $0.1666 = (New Rate) $3.2666
(1993 Code, § 38-2-6) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1586, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 38-2-7 SPECIFICATIONS FOR MAIN AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city does hereby adopt the requirements of the Federal and State
Pipeline Safety Acts as its specifications base. Gas service connections made
to the mains of the system of the city shall comply with requirements and
regulations set forth within the Pipeline Safety Acts and related Pipeline
Safety Standards.
   (B)   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall
be made in compliance with the code provisions relating to excavations in
streets, and no such excavation shall be made unless a permit is obtained.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-7) (Ord. 640, passed 1-7-1980; Am. Ord. 726, passed 2-3-
1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-1991)
§ 38-2-8 ALL SERVICE SHALL BE METERED.
   (A)   No free gas service shall be furnished to any person, firm,
organization or corporation, public or private, and all rates and charges shall
be non-discriminatory, provided that the Council reserves the right to impose
special rates and charges where particular circumstances render the regular
rates inadequate or unjust. If the city would elect to supply itself with gas
for any purpose, regular rates therefor shall be charged against the city and
payment made from the funds thereof to the Gas Fund.
   (B)   All gas service shall be metered with a meter of adequate size to
measure the amount of gas consumed. Meters shall be of standard design and may
be of the diaphragm, rotary or turbine type properly used at the discretion of
the city's Public Works Director. The measurement pressure base shall be seven
inches water column. The temperature base shall be 60°F.
   (C)   Where a gas main is located to the rear of houses, meters will be
located at the rear side of the house or either side of the house, but not to
exceed five feet past the front corner.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-8) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 38-2-9 METERS AND THE LIKE TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   (A)   All meters shall be so placed and installed as to render the same
accessible at the time for the purpose of reading and repairing. All meters
shall be set outside of the buildings where practical. Indoor installations are
prohibited. If found to be unavoidable, the installer must provide adequate
vent extending to the outside and must be approved in writing by the Public
Works Director prior to doing any such work.
   (B)   Meters, regulators, fittings, fixtures and appurtenances connected to
the system and located on private property shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable hours by the proper officers or employees of the city. Any part
found to be defective or not in compliance with the provisions of this code
shall be immediately repaired or corrected. Service may be discontinued without
notice at any time when conditions of the privately-owned facilities create
danger or hazard or found not in compliance with §§
38-2-16 and
38-2-17.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-9) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 38-2-10 METER READING CONCLUSIVE.
   (A)   All gas customers shall be liable for the gas consumption as shown by
the meter. Waste, leakage or other causes not the fault of the city shall be
included under said liability. The meter reading shall be conclusive, provided
that when a meter is found to have a positive average error, i.e. is fast, in
excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city shall
refund to the customer an amount equal to the excess charged for the gas
incorrectly metered, for a period equal to one-half of the time elapsed since
the last previous test, but not to exceed six months. No part of the minimum or
facility charge will be refunded.
   (B)   When a meter is found to have a negative average error, i.e., is slow,
in excess of 2% in tests made at the request of the customer, the city may make
a charge to the customer for the gas incorrectly metered for a period equal to
one-half of the time elapsed since the last previous test, but not to exceed
six months.
   (C)   If a meter is found not to register or partially register for any
period, the city shall estimate the charge for the gas used by averaging the
amounts registered over similar periods preceding or subsequent thereto, or
over corresponding periods in previous years, all of which shall recognize
weather conditions and degree day deficiencies. Such action shall be taken only
in cases of substantial importance where the city is not at fault for allowing
the incorrect meter to be in service.
   (D)   Estimated meter readings shall not be used, excepting in the case of
meter failure or proven inaccuracy, and then only in accordance with this code.
Monthly accounting for all metered gas compared to gas purchases shall be done
by the City Clerk and/or Collector and reported in writing to the Public Works
Director.
   (E)   A gas customer may request that the city supplied meter be read
manually instead of remotely; the fee for such manual reading shall be $35 per
address, per month. A customer who requests that more than one utility meter be
read manually shall not be required to pay more than $35 total per address per
month.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-10) (Ord. 640, passed 1-7-1980; Am. Ord. 726, passed 2-3-
1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-1991; Am. Ord. 1755, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 38-2-11 TEST OF METERS.
   (A)   Any consumer may request the city to make a test of the accuracy of
the meter then in use on their premises. In case a consumer requests an
accuracy test of a meter, the consumer shall be required to deposit with the
city the sum of $600 for a meter having a capacity of 415 cfh or less. Larger
meters shall be tested at actual cost of the work.
   (B)   In the event such a meter is found by testing to register incorrectly
at 20% full capacity, by more than 2% fast or slow as stated in this section,
then another meter shall be substituted and the test deposit shall be refunded.
Past gas bills shall be adjusted by refund or credit of such percentage of the
amount of the gas bills for a period of not more than six months previous to
such test as prescribed in this code.
   (C)   In the event that the meter is found to be within the limits and
registering correctly, the consumer shall forfeit the test deposit and such
funds shall be deposited in the gas operating funds of the city.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-11) (Ord. 640, passed 1-7-1980; Am. Ord. 726, passed 2-3-
1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-1991; Am. Ord. 1360, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord.
1651, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 38-2-12 DEFINITION OF THERM.
   The definition of a THERM shall be 100 cubic feet of natural gas for the
purpose of volumetric billing, accounting, and payment of taxes.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-12) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-13 SEPARATE METERS FOR EACH DISTINCT BUILDING.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect any gas service line or
transmit gas supplied by the Natural Gas System of the city into more than one
distinct building from one meter. A garage or similar out-building shall be
considered a distinct building. Apartment buildings having separate dwelling
units may be serviced from a single meter. Duplex dwellings shall be serviced
from individual meters. The City Council shall have the right to establish
special services or service connections as may be necessary for large users.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-13) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 38-2-14 DAMAGE TO METER, REGULATOR OR CITY-OWNED EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Whenever a meter, regulator or other equipment of a service connection
which has been installed by the city is damaged, damages shall become the
liability of the customer, who shall pay the city the actual cost of the
removal, repairing and/or replacement of such damaged equipment.
   (B)   In the event such damage has caused inaccurate metering, then such gas
bills shall be corrected in the manner previously provided for herein to cover
such period that the meter was out of order.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-14) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-15 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR AN INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE OR SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of gas whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules or for any
operating reason, or if an unsafe condition exists. In all cases where
possible, a reasonable notice of the circumstances will be given to the
customers, but in an emergency or the discovery of an unsafe condition, the gas
may be shut off without notice. Such necessary repairs or work will be made by
the city as rapidly as may be practical. The city shall not be held responsible
or liable because of any shut-off or discontinuance of service for any direct
or resultant damages to any person, company or customer.
   (B)   In the event of such discontinuance of gas service, the city will make
every attempt to safeguard the customer and service shall not be renewed until
the city authorities have purged the lines to put into service all automatic
controls and pilots. In no case shall the customer turn on his or her own
service. The purging of lines, relighting pilots and checking automatic
controls will be done by the city. Where the nature of the customers'
operations are such that an interruption of service might create a hazard or
large economic loss, such customer shall provide facilities for standby service
at his or her discretion.
   (C)   Whenever mains, pipes, service connections or other facilities of the
gas system are taken up, shut off or interfered with by reasons of any street
improvements, the city will endeavor to maintain service so far as is
reasonably possible, but will not be directly or indirectly liable for any
interruption, poor pressure or inconvenience of any kind either to the
customer's adjacent or to other customers affected thereby. Direct damages to
property due to such operations shall be either repaired or replaced by the
city without cost to the customer.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all customers and other persons who
may be affected by the discontinuance of service that it will neither insure
not be responsible or liable in any manner for any loss or damages direct or
indirect by any reason of any fire or any other cause, and all gas service
furnished shall also be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable accidents,
fire, strikes, riots or any other cause. Any customer having a facility,
operation, process or activity which cannot under any or all conditions
tolerate temporary interruption of gas service shall provide an alternate
source of on-site fuel or heat for utilization during such interruption. The
responsibility for this alternate rests fully with the customer.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-15) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993)
§ 38-2-16 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   No additional connections shall be made with any private line or
customer-owned line. Private service lines or customer-owned extensions of
service are prohibited.
   (B)   The city shall have the right and option to demand changes, removal or
replacement of any pipe, fixture or apparatus which is considered to be faulty,
inadequate or hazardous, provided, however, that this provision shall not
obligate the city in any way or manner. The cost of the above work shall be
fully borne by the property owner. The city shall have the right to refuse or
to discontinue gas service without notice to a customer if the city finds any
installed apparatus or appliance which would be detrimental to the efficient
operation of the existing facilities under the latest revision of NFPA 54
(National Fuel Gas Code) and Gas Industry Guidelines.
   (B)   All persons, firms, corporations and customers are strictly forbidden
to attach any electrical ground wire to any fixture of piping which is or may
be connected to any gas service pipe, meter or main belonging to the city. The
owner of the premises shall be responsible and liable for any damage to the
city's property or injury to the employees of the city caused by such ground
wire. Any and all customers, persons, firms or corporations shall remove any
existing ground wires immediately, and if such ground wires are not removed
after 24-hours written notice, the city, through its officials, may enter the
property and remove such ground wires and the customers shall pay all costs.
   (D)   Any customer-owned lines which are required to be operated and
maintained by the city shall be subject to a monthly charge covering such
operation and maintenance. Said charge shall be an additional monthly amount
equal to the facility charge in effect at the time of billing.
   (E)   An excess flow valve (EFV) shall be installed on all new residential
service lines at no cost to the customer. Payment for installations for
nonresidential or existing residential customers shall include all actual costs
of installation.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-16) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993; Am. Ord. 1162, passed 11-20-2000)
§ 38-2-17 REGULATIONS RELATIVE TO CUSTOMER'S PIPING, FACILITIES, APPLIANCES AND
VENTING.
   (A)   The responsibility of the city for maintenance and safety of natural
gas piping terminates at the outside wall of residential premises, unless the
gas meter is located within three feet of the structure, in which case the
city's responsibility terminates at the outlet of the meter, as in the case of
all other meter settings.
   (B)   All inside building piping shall be black iron pipe. The pipe from the
outlet of the meter shall be of black iron pipe of not less than one inch
inside diameter, shall enter the building wall by means of suitable metal strap
or clamp at a point not more than 18 inches from the outlet wall, and shall be
fastened to the wall at intervals sufficient to make the piping rigid
throughout. In instances where piping from the meter enters the wall, the
interior end shall be securely fastened so that pipe will not turn when
fittings at the meter are put on. The final tie-in of the gas line to the meter
shall be made by the customer only after air testing by the customer or his or
her agent. Gas will not be turned on to any customer manifold that has not been
first air tested for leakage by the applicant or his or her agent and
subsequently checked by the city. Testing must be done as a completed system.
No partial or temporary service is permitted.
   (C)   The city does herewith adopt as its rules and regulations and safety
practices the rules, regulations and safety practices set forth by the National
Fire Protection Association in the latest revision of the National Fuel Gas
Code, NFPA 54 and Gas Industry Guidelines, as though those rules, regulations
and practices were fully repeated and set forth herein so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this code. In the event of conflict, the
more restrictive language shall apply. Any person, firm or corporation
installing fuel gas piping or appliances within the gas service area of the
city shall follow said rules, regulations and practices.
   (D)   No surface may be constructed or placed over a gas service line or
main which may produce a seal to a building wall or foundation.
   (E)   All buried natural gas piping facilities owned or served by the city
and distribution appurtenances shall conform to the latest revision of NFPA 54
and the Minimum Federal Safety Standards 49 CFR Part 192 and Gas Industry
Guidelines as though fully set forth herein. The minimum standards shall apply
equally to provide buried facilities and distribution appurtenances. No natural
gas piping may be placed or remain beneath any building or sealed surface
except in a specified vented casing.
   (F)   No meter, regulator or any part of a meter setting may be painted or
otherwise coated by a customer without written approval of the Public Works
Director on a case-by-case basis. Special coatings are required to prevent
shorting of insulators.
   (G)   The city shall not approve CUSTOMER PIPING, which as used herein means
piping beyond the outlet of the meter. The city may refuse connection or
discontinue service upon discovering any conditions which may be in violation
of this code or which may create any type of safety hazard, including venting.
   (H)   Heating plants and water heaters shall be connected to gas piping with
rigid pipe, excepting where an AGA-listed flexible connector is furnished by
the manufacturer as part of its installation design. AGA-approved appliance
connectors may be used only on ranges, clothes dryers or built-in ovens. Sweat
fittings shall not be used anywhere in the gas piping.
   (I)   (1)   All gas conversion burners to be installed shall be AGA-listed
and approved. All designed heating plants shall be AGA-listed and approved and
the manufacturer's recommendations for the installation shall be followed.
      (2)   No conversion burner shall be installed in an old or ineffective
furnace or a boiler which is in poor repair. Test for leakage shall be
conducted by the installer in an approved manner before placing a conversion
burner in a warm-air heating plant.
   (J)   No alteration, repair, adjustment, customer relighting, any appliance
work or piping work shall be done by city forces beyond the outlet of the
meter, except to the extent that it may be required for purposes of safety
only. This prohibition shall apply to LP conversions.
   (K)   (1)   No unvented gas appliances, with the exception of kitchen
ranges, clothes dryers and ventless gas fireplaces installed in accordance with
NFPA 54 and Gas Industry Guidelines, may be installed or operated within the
city.
      (2)   Safety shut-off devices to protect either supply gas or venting
failure shall be installed and subsequently tested for proper operation by the
installer. Written documentation of the test may be requested. These devices
shall be used when approved for or furnished with new heating equipment.
   (L)   Decorative or supplementary appliances shall be properly vented in
accordance with NFPA 54 and Gas Industry Guidelines. These include but are not
limited to gas logs and gas log lighters. At any time such units are installed
in wood-burning fireplaces, special action must be taken for permanent
modifications of the flue damper. Positive assurance must be provided that the
damper cannot be fully closed. A permanent hole must be cut or a positive stop
attached even if the unit has a safety pilot.
   (M)   The city shall be notified of any changes or alterations, remodeling
or reconstruction affecting gas piping in any building, house or grounds. This
shall be done using a new Application for Gas Service or by amending an
existing application.
   (N)   The latest revision of the American National Standard National Fuel
Gas Code, identified as the National Fire Protection Association No. 54 and Gas
Industry Guidelines, is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof
as if and to the extent that it is not in conflict with regulations
specifically set out herein. The more restrictive language shall apply.
   (O)   Any customer piping outside the building wall shall be protected from
atmospheric corrosion by the customer. It shall be painted at regular intervals
after cleaning. Good quality paint suitable for this purpose shall be used.
   (P)   Gas connections compliance testing. There shall be no charge for the
first compliance testing of a new gas connection service. Should the first test
reveal that the service is not properly installed and ready for connection, all
subsequent testing required shall be billed at $35 for each test during
business hours and $50 for each test during non-business hours. Compliance
testing shall be in conformance with NFPA 54 and Gas Industry Guidelines.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-17) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 879, passed 1-4-1993; Am. Ord. 909, passed 2-7-1994; Am. Ord.
1247, passed 12-23-2002; Am. Ord. 1394, passed 11-27-2006; Am. Ord. 1837,
passed 2-7-2022)
§ 38-2-18 TAMPERING WITH METER, REGULATOR OR ANY PARTS OF THE GAS SYSTEM
BELONGING TO THE CITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or customer to
break the seal of any meter, or in any manner to make any alterations, changes
or repairs on the same, or to open any mains, laterals, service pipes,
stopcocks, valves or any part thereof or otherwise tamper or attempt to do any
work on either or any of them without authority of the city, or its proper
authorized agent.
   (B)   No customer shall be permitted to use the stopcock of the service
connection for shutting off gas while making extensions, additions or repairs
to the pipe or interruption of service will be made by the city or its properly
authorized employees.
   (C)   TAMPERING shall include any type of confinement, enclosure, covering
over, surface sealing or changing of the environment relative to any parts of
the gas system or equipment of the city. Such tampering shall become the
liability of the customer, who shall pay the city the actual cost of removal,
repairing and/or replacing equipment or material.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section, or
who shall willfully or maliciously injure or damage any property connected with
the Gas System of the city shall be subject to the general penalty provisions
of this code.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-18) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 12-26-2001)
§ 38-2-19 RESALE OF GAS PROHIBITED.
   No gas shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the city
supply to any premises other than for which application has been made and the
gas installed.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-19) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-20 NOTIFICATION OF PIPELINE LOCATION.
   (A)   Notification of pipeline location must be given by any person or owner
offering for sale any unimproved lot or newly constructed non-agricultural
building not otherwise exempted by this code. Such person or owner shall, in
the case of a newly constructed nonagricultural building, at the time he or she
requests a certificate of occupancy, certify that he or she has informed the
purchaser of said newly constructed non-agricultural building of the location
of any pipeline within 1,500 feet of the building to be sold.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the term PIPELINE shall mean any
conduit through which natural gas, liquefied petroleum, oxygen or other
flammable or combustible products, or any of their products are conveyed or
intended to be conveyed. The definition of pipeline shall include regulator
stations and other facilities integrated within pipeline operations.
(Ord. 962, passed 4-23-1995)
DIVISION III: RATES
§ 38-2-21 CONNECTION CHARGES AND SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Connection fee. The connection fee shall be as shown on the following
schedule:
 
Meter Size  Residential Commercial
R275        $850        $1,250
275,000 btu
R415        $950        $1,500
415,000 btu
R750        N/A         $2,250
750,000 btu
 
 
15C            N/A $2,300
1,500,000 btu
2M             N/A $2,500
2,000,000 btu
3M             N/A $2,800
3,000,000 btu
7M             N/A $3,500
7,000,000 btu
11M            N/A $4,000
11,000,000 btu
 
   (B)   For installation of residential service lines in excess of 75 feet,
the city will charge $5 per foot for installing the line.
   (C)   The city shall charge all commercial applicants the cost to the city
for the service line, regulator, meter, stopcock, excess flow valve and other
parts, materials and items plus the cost to the city for labor, equipment use
and engineering relating to the installation.
   (D)   The connection charge shall be paid at the time of application, and
costs for installation shall be paid before gas service is commenced.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-21) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1010, passed 4-22-1996; Am. Ord. 1162, passed 11-20-2000; Am.
Ord. 1226, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1605, passed 4-23-2012)
§ 38-2-22 GAS RATES.
   The rates and charges shall be based upon the availability of service and
quantity of gas used by each customer, as measured by the gas meter. Charges
shall be on a monthly basis at the following rates:
   (A)   General service.
      Facility charge: $8.00 per meter per month
      Base rate for all gas delivered: $3.100 per 1,000 cubic feet
   (B)   Power plant.
      Base rate for all gas delivered: $3.100 per 1,000 cubic feet
(1993 Code, § 38-2-22) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1291, passed 4-19-2004; Am.
Ord. 1586, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 38-2-23 GAS CHARGE AND TAXES.
   (A)   Gas charge. All natural gas rates shall be adjusted on each billing by
a projection of the annual cost of gas to be purchased, divided by the
projected volume to be billed to the customers based upon the last July through
June year. The result shall be known as the Gas Charge.
   (B)   Taxes. All billings shall be subject to any tax imposed on the sale or
distribution of natural gas by the city. Any such tax shall be added to the
rate for service by computation of a percentage factor equivalent or
“increment” to the effect of the tax.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-23) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-24 SPECIAL RATES.
   The City Council shall have the right to negotiate special rates for large
customers or special types of service, including fuel for engines at the
municipal power plant.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-24) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991)
§ 38-2-25 PROCEDURE FOR DISCONNECTION OF CITY UTILITY SERVICES.
   City officers and employees shall follow the following internal procedures
for disconnection and reconnection of City utility services for City customers,
hereinafter referred to as "Utility Customer”, who are in default on payment of
their Utility Charges or other obligations for utility services, or who are in
violation of the City's regulations regarding the use of City utility services.
   (A)   Notice of termination. If the utility charges are not paid by a date
fixed by the Collector of the City in the shut-off notice, which date shall not
be less than ten days from the date of said notice, or if the utility customer
is in violation of any of the ordinances, rules or regulations of the city with
regard to city utility services, the city may discontinue such service after
the city mails a written notice to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail, or personally delivers the notice to the utility
customer or posts a notice on the premises to be disconnected of the city's
intention to discontinue utility services. The form of the shut-off notice
shall be prepared by the Collector of the City, hereinafter referred to as
“Collector”. If the utility customer is not the owner of the premises served
according to the city's records, said written notice may also be mailed to the
owner of the premises if such owner's name and address have previously been
filed with the Collector for the purpose of receiving such notices. The notice
shall state the utility charges and the date the delinquent bill is due or, if
applicable, the ordinance, rule or regulation which is alleged to have been
violated. The utility customer may contact the Collector for resolution of any
complaint in case a dispute concerning the amount due or other problems with
the account exist, and the utility customer is entitled to appeal any decision
of the Collector on any complaint and have a hearing on such appeal before the
City Utility Disconnect Committee of the City Council, hereinafter referred to
as the “Committee”.
   (B)   Administrative resolution. If, prior to disconnection of service, a
utility customer calls, visits or writes the Collector complaining of an
overcharge or other problem with the account, the Collector shall do one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Render a decision within seven days from the date or receipt of a
utility customer's written complaint and stay termination of services until the
Collector renders a decision or until all appeals are exhausted, whichever is
later;
      (2)   Cause an investigation, including but not limited to a meter
reading at the subject premises to investigate possible errors in billing,
leaks and connections;
      (3)   Establish a written credit plan in cases of proven financial
difficulties by the utility customer;
      (4)   If the Collector finds merit to the dispute, the Collector shall
make an adjustment of the utility customer's bill;
      (5)   If the Collector finds that the dispute has no merit, the Collector
shall communicate that decision to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail or personal notice to the utility customer or by posting
of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. The notice of the decision
shall specify that if the utility charges are not paid or the utility customer
does not appeal the decision on or before seven days from the date of mailing,
posting or delivery of said notice, the service shall be discontinued.
   (C)   Appeal hearing. Any utility customer may appeal the decision of the
Collector to the Committee within seven days of the date of the mailing,
posting or delivery of the decision of the Collector. If the utility customer
requests a hearing, the hearing date shall be scheduled for a regular or
special meeting of the Committee. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed
by first class U.S. mail. At such hearing, the utility customer shall have the
right to appear at the hearing in person and with a representative of his or
her choice, to present evidence in his or her own behalf and to examine any
evidence which the city might introduce. The Committee may conduct its own
investigation of the utility customer's complaint and may present any evidence
with respect thereto at the hearing. Within seven days after the conclusion of
the hearing, the Committee shall render a decision on the utility customer's
complaint. Such decision shall be communicated to the utility customer by
certified mail or by first class U.S. mail, by personal delivery or by posting
notice of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. If the decision is
unfavorable to the utility customer, notice of the decision shall specify that
if the utility charges are not paid or the violation is not abated on or before
seven days from the date of the service of the notice, the service shall be
disconnected.
   (D)   Credit extension. 
      (1)   When a utility customer's utility charges are in arrears because of
financial difficulties proven to the satisfaction of the Collector, or the
Committee in case of appeal, and the utility customer has not defaulted on a
previous credit extension, upon request to the Collector or the Committee, a
credit extension may be given by the Collector or the Committee to the utility
customer, whereby the utility customer shall pay the amount in arrears on the
basis of a deferred payment schedule agreed to by the Collector or the
Committee. The agreement shall be prepared by the Collector.
      (2)   If a utility customer defaults on the deferred payment schedule,
all utility charges in arrears shall be immediately due and payable, and no
further credit extensions shall be granted to that utility customer. No
additional hearing shall be required prior to the termination of utility
services if all outstanding charges are not paid before the termination date as
originally fixed or changed by the Collector or the Committee.
   (E)   Reinstatement of service. If service is discontinued because of non-
payment of utility charges or because of violation of any ordinances, rules or
regulations of the city regarding utility service, such service shall not be
restored until all charges, costs and damages, if any, have been paid to the
city or the violation has been corrected. Prior to restoration, the additional
sum of $35 for each utility service provided shall be paid to the city for the
cost of reconnecting such utility service during regular working hours of city
utility employees. Regular working hours shall be the usual hours worked by
city utility employees in the field at that time of the year on Mondays through
Fridays and shall not include holidays and weekends. If a utility customer
requests the City Utility Department to make reconnection of utility services
other than during regular working hours and the Department agrees, then the
utility customer shall be required to pay the sum of $125 for each utility
service to cover the city's cost incurred for working city employees after
regular working hours.
   (F)   Inclement weather. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, utility
service shall not be terminated on any day when the St. Louis, Missouri
National Weather Service forecast for the following 24 hours covering the area
in which the residence is located includes a forecast that the temperature will
be 32°F or below; or on any day preceding a holiday or a weekend when such a
forecast indicates that the temperature will be 32°F or below during the
holiday or weekend. Other extreme environmental conditions (e.g. heat, flood
and the like) may also be considered in the termination of utility services.
   (G)   Bills that are not paid. If the bills for utility services are not
paid within 60 days of the original mailing date, collection actions will be
taken to collect the bills. In the event suit is filed, the party liable for
the payment of such account shall pay the city's reasonable attorneys' fees and
reasonable costs of a collection agency.
   (H)   Insufficient funds check or Automated Clearing House (ACH). If the
city receives a check or ACH from a utility customer which is not paid on
presentment, that utility customer will be notified by the city, and the
utility customer shall be required to pay a $25 return check or ACH charge in
addition to the insufficient funds check or ACH amount, and said amount shall
be deemed additional utility charges.
   (I)   Non-accrual of rights. The provisions of this section are intended for
administrative guidelines and use only by the City of Waterloo, Illinois,
hereinafter referred to as “city”, and shall not be construed to confer any
rights, claims or causes of action upon a utility customer of any of the city's
utility services on account of any disregard or violation of the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1360, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1487,
passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. 1528, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 38-2-26 DISCONTINUATION OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to discontinue gas service to any premises due
to the following reasons:
   (A)   Nonpayment of any charges for services at their current premises or
their prior premises.
   (B)   Where the owner or tenant of premises has been found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or if a danger, hazard or
unsafe condition exists.
   (C)   Diversion of service around the meter.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-26) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 1212, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1499, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 38-2-27 TEMPORARY RATE INCREASES.
   Temporary rate increases shall be imposed pursuant to the following
parameters:
   (A)   For emergency expenditures or capital improvements between $300,000
and $500,000, a rate shall be set to replenish the Gas Fund in three years; and
   (B)   For emergency expenditures or capital improvements between $500,001
and $750,000, a rate shall be set to replenish the Gas Fund in four years; and
   (C)   For emergency expenditures or capital improvements between $750,001
and $1,000,000, a rate shall be set to replenish the Gas Fund in five years;
and
   (D)   For emergency expenditures or capital improvements of more than
$1,000,000, a rate shall be set to replenish the Gas Fund in six years; and
   (E)   For emergency expenditures or capital improvements of less than
$300,000, the City Council may authorize a temporary rate increase; and
   (F)   Each temporary rate increase will be established using an estimated or
engineered cost of the improvement or emergency expenditure, divided by the
estimated gas usage for the expected payoff time frame. When the exact cost of
the improvement is established, it will replace the estimated cost of the
calculation. The Budget Officer will perform the necessary calculations and
track the revenue from the temporary rate increase. Should there be
reimbursement by third parties, it will be used to offset the capital
improvement costs. When the cost of the improvement or the cost of emergency
expenditure is completely offset by the temporary rate increase and any
reimbursements, the city will discontinue the temporary increase the following
month.
(Ord. 1625, passed 1-28-2013)
§§ 38-2-28 - 38-2-30 (RESERVED)
DIVISION IV: EXTENSIONS
§ 38-2-31 EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall not bear the costs of installing gas mains within
a platted residential subdivision; commercial installations; or industrial
installation, either inside or outside the corporate limits.
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation requesting main installations may
enter into a contract with a private contractor approved by the city for the
installation of gas main pursuant to plans and specifications presented to and
approved by the city. If a private contractor is used for the installation of a
gas main, the applicant shall pay to the city its costs incurred with respect
to the inspection and monitoring of the installation of such gas mains by the
private contractor. The charge is payable at the time the application for gas
service is approved. The installation shall be inspected and approved by the
city prior to initiating gas service. After approval of the installation, the
city shall accept maintenance of the gas system.
   (B)   Or, if requested by the applicant, the city will provide the applicant
with the total estimated cost to the city to install the gas main. The
estimated cost shall include all materials, labor, equipment, engineering and
related items required to complete the gas installation. The applicant may
authorize the city to complete the installation and the charge shall be paid by
the applicant at the time the application for gas service is approved.
   (C)   Extension of mains and services outside the city limits shall be
subject to special approval of the city and shall be subject to all of the
rules and regulations and provisions as provided herein or as may be amended.
All mains, lines and equipment shall be constructed by the city and immediately
become the property of the city.
   (D)   This section applies to mains. Charges for service lines are stated in
other provisions of the city code.
   (E)   The charges provided for in this section shall be effective as of June
1, 2002 and thereafter.
(1993 Code, § 38-2-31) (Ord. 726, passed 2-3-1986; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-3-
1991; Am. Ord. 863, passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. 1044, passed 6-16-1997; Am. Ord.
1226, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 38-2-32 PAYMENT OF ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   If the city proceeds in any court of record to enforce and/or defend any
provision of §§
38-2-1 through
38-2-31 herein, as from time to time amended, and is successful in either the
enforcement or defense proceedings as referred to herein, the city shall
recover its reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the course of
those proceedings from the person and/or entity who has been found to have
violated any provision of §§
38-2-1 through
38-2-31 herein and/or who has initiated the proceedings.
(Ord. 1380, passed 8-7-2006)
ARTICLE III: SEWERS
Section
Division I: Definitions
   
38-3-1   Definitions
Division II: Use of Public Sewers Required
   
38-3-2   Sewer Committee
   
38-3-3   Deposit of wastes prohibited
   
38-3-4   Sewage in natural outlet
   
38-3-5   Private system unlawful
   
38-3-6   Connection to system required
Division III: Private Sewage Disposal
   
38-3-7   Private sewage system
   
38-3-8   Private sewer system approval
   
38-3-9   Private sewage system permit
    
38-3-10   Private sewage system design criteria
   
38-3-11   Utilization of public sewer
   
38-3-12   Operation and maintenance of private sewage system
   
38-3-13   Additional requirements of private sewage system
Division IV: Building Sewers and Connections
   
38-3-14   Disturbing system unlawful
   
38-3-15   Compliance with regulating authorities
   
38-3-16   Application for sewer taps and service connections
   
38-3-17   Costs and expenses
   
38-3-18   Separate sewer; exception
   
38-3-19   Old building sewers
   
38-3-20   Construction methods
   
38-3-21   Elevation
   
38-3-22   Prohibited connections
   
38-3-23   Building and plumbing code applicable
   
38-3-24   Capacity of sewer
   
38-3-25   Inspection
Division V: Use of Public Sewers
   
38-3-26   Sewer repairs
   
38-3-27   Water discharge
   
38-3-28   Regulation of wastes
   
38-3-29   Harmful effects of certain materials
   
38-3-30   Harmful wastes; approval
   
38-3-31   Grease, oil, gasoline and flammable liquid interceptors
   
38-3-32   Flow-equalizing facilities
   
38-3-33   Industrial wastes control manhole
   
38-3-34   Industrial waste testing
   
38-3-35   Measurements and tests
   
38-3-36   Special arrangements
Division VI: Inspections
   
38-3-37   Damage
   
38-3-38   Inspection and testing
   
38-3-39   Liability of city
   
38-3-40   Private property inspections
Division VII: Penalties
   
38-3-41   Liability to city
   
38-3-42   Penalty
   
38-3-43   (Reserved)
   
38-3-44   Revocation of permit for sewage disposal
   
38-3-45   Penalties cumulative
Division VIII: Rate Structure
   
38-3-46   Property owner liable
   
38-3-47   Estimated bill
   
38-3-48   Sewer service deposits
   
38-3-49   Sewer user charge
   
38-3-50   Basic user charge
   
38-3-51   Surcharge
   
38-3-52   Operating expense adjustment
   
38-3-53   Measurement of flow
   
38-3-54   Basic user rate
   
38-3-55   Surcharge rate
   
38-3-56   Computation of surcharge
   
38-3-57   Computation of wastewater service charge
   
38-3-58   (Reserved)
   
38-3-59   Billing for service
   
38-3-60   Accounts
   
38-3-61   Procedure for disconnection of city utility services
   
38-3-62   Discontinuation or refusal of service
   
38-3-63   Non-accrual of rights
   
38-3-64   Cost of living adjustment
Division IX: Sewer Tap-Ins
   
38-3-65   Sewer tap-ins
   
38-3-66   Charges constitute lien
   
38-3-67   Reconnect charge
   
38-3-68   Effective date of rates
Division X: Bulk Wastewater Disposal
   
38-3-74   Bulk wastewater disposal
   
38-3-75   No water service and bulk wastewater rates
   
38-3-76   Letter of agreement
   
38-3-77   Excluded waste
   
38-3-78   Acceptable waste
   
38-3-79   Testing
   
38-3-80   Receipt of waste
   
38-3-81   Cost of disposal
   
38-3-82   Payment of attorneys' fees
DIVISION I: DEFINITIONS
§ 38-3-1 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Clarification of word usage. “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is
permissible.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
meaning of terms used in this code shall be as follows:
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure located on a site from which industrial
wastes are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop.
The purpose of a CONTROL MANHOLE is to provide access for the city
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   GOVERNMENT, LOCAL.
      (1)   CITY. The city of Waterloo, Illinois.
      (2)   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements
issued by the Administrator or, where appropriated by the Director, after
enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to
regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to Section 402 of the Federal
Act.
      (3)   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private cooperation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
      (4)   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of Public Works of the city
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES.
      (1)   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other
approved point of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
      (2)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      (3)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm water, surface water and groundwater drainage.
      (4)   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by another.
      (5)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of
the city. It shall also include sewers within or outside the city boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the city sanitary
sewer or combined sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been
constructed with city funds.
      (6)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or
a combination of both, and into which storm water, surface water and
groundwaters or unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
      (7)   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste
liquids, including storm water, surface water and groundwater drainage.
      (8)   SEWERAGE. The system of sewers and appurtenances for the
collection, transportation and pumping of sewage.
      (9)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries storm water, surface water and
groundwater drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than
unpolluted cooling water.
      (10)   STORM WATER RUNOFF. That portion of the precipitation that is
drained into the sewers.
   TREATMENT:
      (1)   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before
introduction into the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal system
regulated by the Monroe County Private Sewage Disposal System Ordinance and/or
by the State of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code.
      (3)   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes
used as synonymous with “Waste Treatment Plant” or “Wastewater Treatment Plant”
or “Pollution Control Plant.”
   TYPES OF CHARGES:
      (1)   BASIC USER CHARGE. The basic assessment levied on all users of the
public sewer system (the minimum charge). It is made up of an operation,
maintenance and replacement component and a debt reduction component.
      (2)   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The amount to be paid each billing period for
payment of interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, and the like
outstanding.
      (3)   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “Operation and Maintenance” includes
replacement.
      (4)   SEWERAGE FUND. The principal accounting designation for all
revenues received in the operation of the sewerage system.
      (5)   SURCHARGE. The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and
debt service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater
in strength than average concentration values as established in §
38-3-51.
      (6)   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the collection
system and/or treatment works will be operated, and shall be 20 years from the
date of start-up of any wastewater facilities component.
      (7)   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.  The charge per quarter or month levied
on all users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed
as outlined in §
38-3-54.
   USER TYPES:
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non- governmental user of publicly-owned
treatment works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual,
1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing
         (b)   Division B - Mining
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services
         (e)   Division I - Services
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL or NON-INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the
treatment works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an
industrial user as provided for in this section.
      (3)   USER CLASS. The type of user, either residential, commercial (non-
industrial) or industrial as defined herein.
   WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
      (1)   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or
other body of surface or groundwater.
      (2)   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
      (1)   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      (2)   EFFLUENT CRITERIA. Those criteria as are defined in any applicable
NPDES permit.
      (3)    FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it
will separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat
if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the
collection system.
      (4)   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance
discharged, permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing,
commercial or business establishment or process or from the development,
recovery or processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary
sewage.
      (6)   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-
owned treatment works that:
         (a)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
         (b)   Has a flow greater than 10% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined
in standards issued under Section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with
the issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works
receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon
the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
      (7)   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l). A unit of the concentration of water
or wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in 1,000
milliliters of water.
      (8)   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in Standard Methods.
      (9)   POPULATION EQUIVALENT. A term used to evaluate the impact of
industrial or other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population
equivalent is 100 gallons of sewage per day containing 0.20 pounds of BOD and
0.22 pounds of suspended solids.
      (10)   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
      (11)   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27
centimeters) in any dimension.
      (12)   SEWAGE. This term is used interchangeably with “wastewater” as
defined in this section.
      (13)   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
      (14)   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set
forth in the most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
      (15)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS. Solids that either float on the surface of
or are in suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste, and which are
removable by a laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of
suspended solids shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in
Standard Methods.
      (16)   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to
the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
      (17)   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From this standpoint,
of course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with any groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
      (18)   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS.  Standards defined in the Illinois
Administrative Code, Title 35: Environmental Protection, Subtitle C: Water
Pollution, Chapter I: Pollution Control Board, and any amendments thereto.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-1) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
DIVISION II: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 38-3-2 SEWER COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Sewer shall monitor the
implementation of Council policy by the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, shall, from
time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and generally, shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Department.
§ 38-3-3 DEPOSIT OF WASTES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-2) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-4 SEWAGE IN NATURAL OUTLET.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this code.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-3) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-5 PRIVATE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
    Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-4) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-6 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner of all the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this code within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 150 feet of the nearest property line.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-5) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
DIVISION III: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 38-3-7 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
38-3-6, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-6) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-8 PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM APPROVAL.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system, the
owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city. The application
for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the
applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other information
as deemed necessary by the city. A permit and inspection fee of $50 shall be
paid to the city at the time the application is filed. The fee is not
refundable. This permit is required in addition to any other permits required
of the system, i.e. Monroe County permit.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-7) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-9 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM PERMIT.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Director of
Public Works. The Director of Public Works shall be allowed to inspect the work
at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection and before
any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within three
working days of the receipt of written notice by the Director of Public Works.
Issuance of a permit by the city shall not relieve the prospective permittee
from obtaining a permit from Monroe County as necessary and conversely.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-8) (Ord. 756, passed 1-4-88; Am. Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-10 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State of Illinois Private
Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, and with the State of Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. No permit shall be issued for any private
sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where
the area of the lot is less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet unless approved by the
State Department of Public Health and the Director of Public Works.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-9) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-11 UTILIZATION OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system as provided in §
38-3-6, the building sewer shall be connected to the sewer within 90 days, and
the private sewage disposal system shall be cleaned of sludge and waste
material, which shall be disposed of in a lawful, sanitary and proper manner,
and the private disposal system shall be filled with clean bank- run gravel or
dirt.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-10) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-12 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-11) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-13 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEM.
   No statement contained in this division shall be construed to interfere with
any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County or State Health
Department or other agencies having lawful jurisdiction.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-12) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
DIVISION IV: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 38-3-14 DISTURBING SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-13) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-15 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATING AUTHORITIES.
   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except those
discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the
Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-14) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-16 APPLICATION FOR SEWER TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Classes of permits. There shall be two classes of building sewer
permits as follows: (1) residential and commercial service; and (2) service to
establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (B)   Application for sewer taps and service connections to the sewer system
for property inside the city. The owner or his or her agent shall make
application for either class of permit for property inside the city on an
application approved by the Director of Public Works and furnished by the city.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director of
Public Works.
   (C)   Application for sewer taps and service connections to the sewer system
for property outside the city. The owner or his or her agent shall make
application for either class of permit for property outside the city on an
application approved by the Director of Public Works and furnished by the city.
The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or
other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director of
Public Works.
      (1)   If the property for which a sewer tap or service connection is
requested is contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of
the property by the city: (a) then such property must be annexed to the city
before such a sewer tap or service connection shall be allowed; or (b) if a
legally enforceable annexation agreement acceptable to the city and a petition
for annexation for such property are tendered to the city by the owner of such
property, then a sewer tap or service connection may be allowed upon tentative
approval of the annexation agreement by the City Council by the requisite vote
required for final approval of annexation agreement, pending final
consideration and action upon such annexation agreement.
      (2)   If the property for which a sewer tap or service connection is
requested is not contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit
annexation of the property by the city, then before a sewer tap or service
connection shall be allowed, a legally enforceable annexation agreement
acceptable to the city which runs with the property must be tendered to the
city by the owner of such property, wherein such owner agrees that upon such
property becoming contiguous to the boundary of the city so as to permit
annexation of such property by the city, that said property shall be annexed to
the city. Upon approval of such agreement by the requisite vote required for
annexation agreement, the request for a sewer tap or service connection may be
allowed.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C)(1) and (C)(2) of
this section, the city may deny an application for a sewer tap or service
connection for property outside the city whenever the City Council determines
in its discretion that: (a) such a sewer tap or service connection would
jeopardize or adversely affect the sewer system of the city or sewer service to
existing or committed future customers of sewer service within or without the
city; or (b) existing main lines are deemed to be inadequate or inconveniently
located for the requested tap-on or service connection.
   (D)   Transfer of service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all sewer charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon transfer of sewer service for such customer from one service
location to another service location so long as there has not been an
interruption of service to such customer for a period greater than six months.
   (E)   Additional service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all sewer charges as required this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon application for sewer service for an additional service
location if such customer is receiving sewer service from the city at the time
of such application.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-15) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1147, passed 7-17-
2000)
§ 38-3-17 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-16) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-18 SEPARATE SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-17) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-19 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and testing by the Director of Public Works to
meet all requirements of this chapter. If an old building sewer is abandoned by
the property owner, the city requires that the old sewer be disconnected and
capped at the point of attachment with the main to the sanitary sewer system.
The cap should be approved by the city and must be inspected by the city prior
to backfilling.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-18) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-20 CONSTRUCTION METHODS.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Environment Federation Manual of
Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (B)   It is hereby prohibited to connect a sewer lateral directly into a
manhole. All sewer laterals must be connected to a sewer main. Only the sewer
connection to the main and no more than 20 feet of the sewer lateral shall be
located in a city easement, right-of-way or on another platted lot.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-19) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 7-17-
1999) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-21 ELEVATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-20) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-22 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS.
   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, sump pumps or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to public sanitary sewer.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-21) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-23 BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE APPLICABLE.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the building and plumbing code, or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Environmental Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications
for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall
be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city before installation.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-22) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 7-17-
1999) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-24 CAPACITY OF SEWER.
   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection shall
only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-23) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-25 INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director of
Public Works when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Director of Public Works or his or her representative after the roof structure
is constructed.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-24) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
DIVISION V: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 38-3-26 SEWER REPAIRS.
   (A)   The building services are the property and responsibility of the
property owner from the point of connection from the city sewer to the
building. Repairs to the service shall be at the expense of the property owner.
Repairs shall comply with the costs and expenses requirements of §
38-3-17, the construction methods requirements of §
38-3-20, and the building and plumbing code applicable requirements of §
38-3-23 herein. Restoration of city-owned pavement, sidewalks, curb and gutter,
and boulevards shall be at the property owner's expense, and shall be of at
least the same quality as the materials removed. The city may dictate the
pavement restoration method and materials. Said costs shall be borne by the
property owner. Concrete sidewalks, curb, gutters and streets, and asphalt
streets shall be saw cut.
   (B)   Should the integrity of the city street, ally, sidewalk or any other
structure within the city right-of-way be in jeopardy due to a building service
discontinuity, the city shall serve the property owner with written notice. The
property owner shall have 48 hours therefrom to initiate the repair and shall
effect the repair and temporary pavement restoration within an additional 36
hours. If the property owner does not initiate the repair within 48 hours, the
city shall effect the complete repair up to the right-of-way line and charge
the property owner for said service.
   (C)   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall
be made in compliance with the code provisions relating to excavations in
streets, and no such excavation shall be made unless a permit is obtained (see
Chapter 33).
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-27 WATER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Discharge prohibited. No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, sump pump, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted industrial
process water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewer or
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the Director of Public Works.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process water may be discharged, on
approval of the Director of Public Works, to a storm sewer, combined sewer or
natural outlet.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45 
§ 38-3-28 REGULATION OF WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solids or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation off the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole or ground by
garbage grinders.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-28) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-29 HARMFUL EFFECTS OF CERTAIN MATERIALS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Director of Public Works that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a
nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Director of Public Works will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or oils,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l, or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/4 horsepower (0.76
hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the city;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or no;.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Director of Public Works for such materials;
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste odor-producing
substances in such concentration as to exceed limits which may be established
by the Director of Public Works as necessary after treatment of the composite
sewage to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies
of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Director of Public Works in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
   (H)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg at
any time except as permitted by the city in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      (1)   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids, such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids, such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate;
      (2)   Excessive discoloration, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions;
      (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; or
      (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs, as defined herein;
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-29) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-30 HARMFUL WASTES; APPROVAL.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in § 38-3-29 and/or which are in violation of
the standards for pretreatment provided in Chapter 1, EPA Rules and
Regulations; Subchapter D, Water Programs; Part 128, Pretreatment Standards;
Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and any
amendments thereto and which in the judgment of the city may have a deleterious
effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
Director of Public Works may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates for discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of §
38-3-54.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Director of Public
Works, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, articles and
laws.
   (C)   The owner of the pretreatment or equalization facilities shall obtain
construction and operating permits from the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency prior to the issuance of final approval by the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Where multiple processes or discharges are present or contemplated at
an industry, the city shall have the authority to require the owner or person
to furnish and install more than one control manhole with appurtenances and/or
require that all wastewater be discharged through a single control manhole or
structure with appurtenances described herein.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-30) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-31 GREASE, OIL, GASOLINE AND FLAMMABLE LIQUID INTERCEPTORS.
(A) Grease, oil, gasoline and flammable liquid interceptors shall be provided
when they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid waste containing
grease, oil, gasoline, or other flammable or hazardous materials in excessive
amounts and/or as required by state or federal regulations. Section
38-3-29 prohibits toxic, poisonous materials or oils, whether emulsified or
not, in excess of 100 mg/1, or containing substances that may solidify or
become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F. The Illinois State
Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code § 890.510, contains requirements
relative to grease interceptor requirements. When they are more restrictive,
the city's grease interceptor (trap) requirements shall take precedence over
the Illinois Public Health requirements. In all new construction requiring a
grease interceptor, a 250-gallon interceptor shall be installed outside of the
building, no closer than five feet from the wall of the building. In instances
of remodeling or change of occupancy, the Illinois State Plumbing Code, 77
Illinois Administrative Code § 890.510 shall govern. All interior grease traps
shall be Plumbing Drainage Institute approved, with a solid waste interceptor
located before the grease trap. Effective January 1, 2014, all grease
interceptors must be cleaned out when 25% of the total volume is a combination
of grease and solids, but no less than once a year. Documentation of the
cleanouts shall be readily available at all times for inspection by both the
city and the county health departments.
(B) Gasoline and oil interceptors shall adhere to the requirements of 77
Illinois Administrative Code § 890.520.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-31) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1468, passed 2-4-
2008; Am. Ord. 1652, passed 9-16-2013; Am. Ord. 1750, passed 2-5-2018) Penalty,
see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-32 FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his or her expense.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-32) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-33 INDUSTRIAL WASTES CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Director of Public Works, the owner of any property serviced by
a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safety located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Director of
Public Works. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-33) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-34 INDUSTRIAL WASTE TESTING.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this code and any special
conditions for discharge established by the city or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (B)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city, but no less than once per year
the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At such times as
deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-34) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-35 MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this code shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should
be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pH is determined from
periodic grab samples.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-35) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-36 SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS.
    No statement contained in this article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore, in accordance with the
chapter hereof by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for User Charge System.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-36) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
DIVISION VI: INSPECTIONS
§ 38-3-37 DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is part of the sewage works.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-37) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-38 INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of
the city, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the United States
Environmental Agency bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
code.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works or his or her representative shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-38) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
§ 38-3-39 LIABILITY OF CITY.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
38-3-38, the Director of Public Works or duly authorized employees of the city,
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by the company, and the company shall be held harmless
for injury or death to the city employees, and the city shall indemnify the
company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in §
38-3-33 or to exercise reasonable care for the safety of the Director of Public
Works or employees of the city.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-39) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-40 PRIVATE PROPERTY INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement, for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-40) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §§
38-3-41 through
38-3-45
DIVISION VII: PENALTIES
§ 38-3-41 LIABILITY TO CITY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article III shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage sustained by the city by
reason of such violation.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 38-3-42 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
38-3-1 through
38-3-40 of this Article III shall be subject to the general penalty described
in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-19-1994; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 38-3-43 (RESERVED)
§ 38-3-44 REVOCATION OF PERMIT FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   The city may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any
violation of any provision of this Article III, or violation of regulations of
other agencies having lawful jurisdiction. Upon revocation of any permit to
discharge, the person violating the ordinance or regulation shall cease and
desist discharge of wastewater or industrial waste to the public sewer system
and treatment works, and shall not continue the discharge in any manner that
would violate state, federal or local pollution control laws and regulations.
Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this code
shall be subject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-19-1994; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 38-3-45 PENALTIES CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of §§
38-3-41,
38-3-42 and
38-3-44 shall be deemed to be of a cumulative nature, and a person or entity is
subject to the provisions of §
38-3-41 as well as §
38-3-42, and may, in some cases, also be subject to the cumulative penalties of
§
38-3-44.
(Ord. 944, passed 12-19-1994)
DIVISION VIII: RATE STRUCTURE
§ 38-3-46 PROPERTY OWNER LIABLE.
   The property owner shall be liable for all charges left unpaid by any tenant
where the property owner has countersigned the application of service where the
delinquent charges are not paid for by the owner; provided, however, the
property owner shall be liable only for the installation and connection charges
when he or she has signed the application only for such purpose.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-44) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-47 ESTIMATED BILL.
   (A)   In case any meter shall stop or for any reason fail to integrate
properly, or upon failure to read the meter, the Collector may estimate the
monthly bill for sewer service. Whenever possible, estimated bills will be
based on the same month of the prior year.
   (B)   The Sewer Department will endeavor to make an actual reading of the
customer's meter(s) at least every second billing period. A $25 service charge
will apply if the customer does not allow the meter to be accessible after two
consecutive billing periods in which an estimated bill has been rendered. The
Collector may render an estimated bill for any billing period in which:
      (1)   The Sewer Department has taken appropriate and reasonable measures
to read the customer's meter(s).
      (2)   The customer has knowingly and willfully denied reasonable access
to the Sewer Department's representative for the purpose of taking an actual
meter reading.
      (3)   The customer has otherwise made an actual meter(s) reading
unnecessarily difficult.
      (4)   Circumstances beyond the Sewer Department's control make an actual
meter(s) reading extremely difficult.
   (C)   Only in unusual cases will more than two consecutive estimated bills
be rendered.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-45) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-48 SEWER SERVICE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Residential. When any application is made for sewer services in
accordance with the provisions of this article and when the applicant is not
the record owner of the property for which service is requested, the applicant
shall deposit with the application the sum of $50 for sewer service.
   (B)   Commercial. In the case of a commercial or industrial user, the
advance payment shall be a minimum of $50 or an amount equal to one month of
estimated sewerage service charge, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Deposit refund. Any deposit required by the Collector and held by the
city with respect to sewer service shall be refundable after one year of non-
delinquent payment for all sewer charges, or upon termination of service to the
customer, if all bills have been paid and the city is satisfied that all its
meters and other equipment, if any, on the customer’s premises, have been left
accessible and undamaged. If service is terminated, the deposit less any
outstanding charges will be refunded to the customer. No interest shall be paid
on the deposit.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-46) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-49 SEWER USER CHARGE.
   The charges for sewer services shall be made on a monthly basis. The sewer
service charge for the use and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the city shall consist of a basic user charge for operation,
maintenance, replacement and debt reduction, and a surcharge is applicable.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-47) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-50 BASIC USER CHARGE.
   (A)   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters (excluding water meters for fire protection, lawn irrigation and
swimming pool systems) and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following
normal domestic concentrations:
      (1)   A five-day, 20°C BOD of 220 mg/l; and
      (2)   A suspended solids content of 240 mg/l.
   (B)   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance costs
plus replacement, depreciation and debt reduction, and shall be computed as
follows:
      (1)   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement and debt retirement
fund for the year, for all works categories;
      (2)   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible;
      (3)   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of suspended solids and pounds
of BOD to be treated;
      (4)   Proportion the estimated costs to add users by volume, suspended
solids and BOD;
      (5)   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal sewage strength; and
      (6)   Compute surcharge cost per mg/l in excess of normal sewage strength
for BOD and suspended solids.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-48) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1361, passed 12-
19-2005; Am. Ord. 1441, passed 7-23-2007)
§ 38-3-51 SURCHARGE.
   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose BOD and SS exceed 220 mg/l and
240 mg/l respectively. The surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded
by water meters and/or sewage meters for all wastes which exceed the 220 mg/
l and 240 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS respectively. Section
38-3-55 specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-49) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-52 OPERATING EXPENSE ADJUSTMENT.
   Any changes in operating expenses shall be passed uniformly and directly to
all bills rendered after such determination has been made by the Collector of
the City. The determination shall be made using the latest fiscal audit report
with the “base operating expenses” being the operating expenses recorded for
the preceding fiscal year. Changes in operating expenses shall be limited to
the following:
   (A)   Demonstrable changes identified in the fiscal reports of the city.
   (B)   Changes in wages, salaries, payroll or payroll expenses applicable
after they have been put into effect.
   (C)   Direct and permanently continuing costs over which the city has no
control.
   (D)   Changes in debt service.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-50) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1211, passed 12-
26-2001)
§ 38-3-53 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and
surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of 1,000 gallons.
   (B)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part or all of his or her water from sources other than the city Waterworks
System, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type
approved by the Director of Public Works for the purpose of determining the
volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   (C)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Director of Public Works if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
   (D)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person discharging wastes. Following
approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is
canceled, without the consent of the Director of Public Works.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-51) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-54 BASIC USER RATE.
   (A)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and a
basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the city.
      (1)   Minimum in-city charge.
         (a)   A minimum charge shall be applied to all in-city users whose
water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   For the billing period commencing on June 1, 2009, and ending on
April 30, 2010, the in-city user minimum charge is made up of $7.71 for
operation, maintenance and replacement; $0.07 for old debt reduction; $3.48 for
administrative costs; for a total minimum bill of $11.26.
      (2)   Basic in-city user rate.
         (a)   A basic user rate shall be applied to all in-city users made up
of $3.94 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (b)   The basic in-city user rate shall be for all usage over 2,000
gallons. In-city users will be charged with $3.86 for operation, maintenance
and replacement; $0.08 for administrative costs; for a total of $3.94 per 1,000
gallons.
      (3)   Minimum charge and basic user rate for users outside the city
limits.
         (a)   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge
and a basic user rate for use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the city for users outside the city limits.
         (b)   A minimum charge shall be applied to all outside-city users
whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000 gallons per month.
         (c)   The minimum outside-city user charge is made up of $6.19 for
operation, maintenance and replacement; $2.35 for old debt reduction,
depreciation and capital improvement funding; $3.48 for administration costs;
and $14.49 for new plant debt principal and interest; for a total minimum bill
of $26.51.
         (d)   A basic outside-city user rate shall be applied to all users
made up of $11.09 per 1,000 gallons per month.
         (e)   For all usage over 2,000 gallons, an outside-city user will be
charged with $3.09 for operation, maintenance and replacement; $0.97 for old
debt reduction, depreciation and capital improvement funding; and $5.99 for new
plant debt principal and interest; and $1.04 for administrative costs; for a
total of $11.09.
      (4)   Sewer usage without city water. For any in-city user who uses the
sanitary sewer without city water, the monthly charge will be $100.00 for a
single-family residence. An outside-city user and larger in-city users shall
pay a rate negotiated at the time of tap-on request.
   (B)   A summary of rates follows:
      (1)   Rates from June 1, 2009, through April 30, 2010, will be as
follows:
         (a)   For in-city users, $11.26 for the first 2,000 gallons, and $3.94
for each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter.
         (b)   For outside-city users, $26.51 for the first 2,000 gallons, and
$11.09 for each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter.
      (2)   Rates from May 1, 2010, through April 30, 2011, will be as follows:
         (a)   For in-city users, for the first 2,000 gallons and for each
1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter, the rate will be increased or
decreased by the CPI, and by adding $1.00 to the rate for both the 2,000-gallon
minimum and the rate-per-1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter.
         (b)   For outside-city users, for the first 2,000 gallons and for each
1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter, the rate will be increased or
decreased by the CPI.
      (3)   Rates from May 1, 2011, through April 30, 2012, and thereafter,
unless changed, will be:
         (a)   For in-city users, for the first 2,000 gallons and for each
1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter, the rate will be increased or
decreased by the CPI, and by adding another $1.00 to the rate for both the
2,000-gallon minimum and the rate-per-1,000 gallons, or portion thereof,
thereafter.
         (b)   For outside-city users, for the first 2,000 gallons and for each
1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, thereafter, the rate will be increased or
decreased by the CPI.
      (4)   CPI is defined §
38-3-64.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-52) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 985, passed 12-18-
1995; Am. Ord. 991, passed 2-5-1996; Am. Ord. 1096, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord.
1343, passed 9-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1513, passed 5-26-2009)
§ 38-3-55 SURCHARGE RATE.
   The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as follows:
   SCBODi = $0.24 (BODi - 220) x Qi x 8.34
   SCSSi    = $0.42 (SSi - 240) x Qi x 8.34
   Sci = SCBODi + SCSSi
Where:
   Qi = Total monthly flow volume expressed in millions of gallons.
   BODi = Biochemical Oxygen Demand concentration (five-days, 20°C) of waste
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   SSi = Suspended Solids concentration of waste expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   SCBODi = Monthly surcharge in dollars for Biochemical Oxygen Demand for
waste concentrations greater than 240 mg/l.
   SCSSi = Monthly surcharge in dollars for Suspended Solids for waste
concentrations greater than 240 mg/l.
   SCi = Total monthly surcharge in dollars.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-53) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-56 COMPUTATION OF SURCHARGE.
   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall be
established by flow measurement and waste sampling. Waste sampling and flow
measurement shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the
Director of Public Works and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-54) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-57 COMPUTATION OF WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following formula:
   CW = CM + CD (Vu-X) (Cu + Cud) + Sci
Where:
   CW = Amount of wastewater service charge per billing period (monthly)
   CM = Minimum charge for operation, maintenance, replacement ($2.08) and
administration ($2.63); total: $4.71 (§
38-3-54)
   CD = Minimum charge for debt reduction (§
38-3-54): $5.00
   Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period (gallons)
   X = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge of 2,000 gallons
(§
38-3-54)
   Cu = Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement (§
38-3-54) ($1.04 per 1,000 gallons)
   CuD = Basic user rate for debt reduction (§
38-3-54) ($0.00 per 1,000 gallons)
   SCi = Amount of surcharge (§
38-3-55)
(1993 Code, § 38-3-55) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-58 (RESERVED)
§ 38-3-59 BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Regular.
      (1)   Bills or service will be rendered monthly unless otherwise
specified.
      (2)   The term "month", for billing purposes, will be the period between
any two consecutive readings of the meters by the Sewer Department, such
readings to be taken as nearly as practicable every 30 days. All bills for
service shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Sewer
Department's rate schedule effective at the time of rendering service.
   (B)   Consolidated bill; late payment penalty. Bills for all utility
services, which presently include electric, gas, water and sewer services, and
for garbage and refuse collection, shall be consolidated and mailed to all
users of such services on or about the fifteenth day of each month following
the month during which services were used. Full payment of all bills shall be
due and payable on or before the fifth day of the next month. If a bill is not
paid on or before said date, a penalty equal to 10% of the total amount due on
the current total utility and garbage and refuse collection bill, exclusive of
taxes, will be added thereto for each month or part thereof, commencing with
the calendar month for which services were rendered and billed.
   (C)   Billing for fractional month service. When a customer commences or
discontinues service between regular monthly meter reading dates, the Collector
will bill the customer as closely as possible to the date of disconnect.
   (D)   Failure to receive a bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse
a customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the city be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month, the
billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-57) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-60 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Collector shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall
keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries
shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system, and at
regular annual intervals the Clerk shall cause to be made an audit by an
independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   (B)   In addition to the customary operating statements, the annual audit
report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of the wastewater
facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer service
charges under the user charge system do in fact meet these regulations. In this
regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit report shall include
the following:
      (1)   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant
for the current fiscal year;
      (2)   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed;
      (3)   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year;
      (4)   Number of users connected to the system;
      (5)   Number of non-metered users; and
      (6)   A list of users discharging non-domestic wastes (industrial users)
and volume of waste discharged.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-58) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-61 PROCEDURE FOR DISCONNECTION OF CITY UTILITY SERVICES.
   City officers and employees shall follow the following internal procedures
for disconnection and reconnection of city utility services for city customers,
hereinafter referred to as “utility customer”, who are in default on payment of
their utility charges or other obligations for utility services, or who are in
violation of the city's regulations regarding the use of city utility services.
   (A)   Notice of termination. If the utility charges are not paid by a date
fixed by the Collector of the City in the shut-off notice, which date shall not
be less than ten days from the date of said notice, or if the utility customer
is in violation of any of the ordinances, rules or regulations of the city with
regard to city utility services, the city may discontinue such service after
the city mails a written notice to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail, or personally delivers the notice to the utility
customer or posts a notice on the premises to be disconnected of the city's
intention to discontinue utility services. The form of the shut-off notice
shall be prepared by the Collector of the City, hereinafter referred to as
“Collector”. If the utility customer is not the owner of the premises served
according to the city's records, said written notice may also be mailed to the
owner of the premises if such owner's name and address have previously been
filed with the Collector for the purpose of receiving such notices. The notice
shall state the utility charges and the date the delinquent bill is due or, if
applicable, the ordinance, rule or regulation which is alleged to have been
violated. The utility customer may contact the Collector for resolution of any
complaint in case a dispute concerning the amount due or other problems with
the account exist, and the utility customer is entitled to appeal any decision
of the Collector on any complaint and have a hearing on such appeal before the
City Utility Disconnect Committee of the City Council, hereinafter referred to
as the “Committee”.
   (B)   Administrative resolution. If, prior to disconnection of service, a
utility customer calls, visits or writes the Collector complaining of an
overcharge or other problem with the account, the Collector shall do one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Render a decision within seven days from the date or receipt of a
utility customer's written complaint and stay termination of services until the
Collector renders a decision or until all appeals are exhausted, whichever is
later;
      (2)   Cause an investigation, including but not limited to a meter
reading at the subject premises to investigate possible errors in billing,
leaks and connections;
      (3)   Establish a written credit plan in cases of proven financial
difficulties by the utility customer;
      (4)   If the Collector finds merit to the dispute, the Collector shall
make an adjustment of the utility customer's bill;
      (5)   If the Collector finds that the dispute has no merit, the Collector
shall communicate that decision to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail or personal notice to the utility customer or by posting
of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. The notice of the decision
shall specify that if the utility charges are not paid or the utility customer
does not appeal the decision on or before seven days from the date of mailing,
posting or delivery of said notice, the service shall be discontinued.
   (C)   Appeal hearing. Any utility customer may appeal the decision of the
Collector to the Committee within seven days of the date of the mailing,
posting or delivery of the decision of the Collector. If the utility customer
requests a hearing, the hearing date shall be scheduled for a regular or
special meeting of the Committee. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed
by first class U.S. mail. At such hearing, the utility customer shall have the
right to appear at the hearing in person and with a representative of his or
her choice, to present evidence in his or her own behalf and to examine any
evidence which the city might introduce. The Committee may conduct its own
investigation of the utility customer's complaint and may present any evidence
with respect thereto at the hearing. Within seven days after the conclusion of
the hearing, the Committee shall render a decision on the utility customer's
complaint. Such decision shall be communicated to the utility customer by
certified mail or by first class U.S. mail, by personal delivery or by posting
notice of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. If the decision is
unfavorable to the utility customer, notice of the decision shall specify that
if the utility charges are not paid or the violation is not abated on or before
seven days from the date of the service of the notice, the service shall be
disconnected.
   (D)   Credit extension. 
      (1)   When a utility customer's utility charges are in arrears because of
financial difficulties proven to the satisfaction of the Collector, or the
Committee in case of appeal, and the utility customer has not defaulted on a
previous credit extension, upon request to the Collector or the Committee, a
credit extension may be given by the Collector or the Committee to the utility
customer, whereby the utility customer shall pay the amount in arrears on the
basis of a deferred payment schedule agreed to by the Collector or the
Committee. The agreement shall be prepared by the Collector.
      (2)   If a utility customer defaults on the deferred payment schedule,
all utility charges in arrears shall be immediately due and payable, and no
further credit extensions shall be granted to that utility customer. No
additional hearing shall be required prior to the termination of utility
services if all outstanding charges are not paid before the termination date as
originally fixed or changed by the Collector or the Committee.
   (E)   Reinstatement of service. If service is discontinued because of non-
payment of utility charges or because of violation of any ordinances, rules or
regulations of the city regarding utility service, such service shall not be
restored until all charges, costs and damages, if any, have been paid to the
city or the violation has been corrected. Prior to restoration, the additional
sum of $35 for each utility service provided shall be paid to the city for the
cost of reconnecting such utility service during regular working hours of city
utility employees. Regular working hours shall be the usual hours worked by
city utility employees in the field at that time of the year on Mondays through
Fridays and shall not include holidays and weekends. If a utility customer
requests the City Utility Department to make reconnection of utility services
other than during regular working hours and the Department agrees, then the
utility customer shall be required to pay the sum of $125 for each utility
service to cover the city's cost incurred for working city employees after
regular working hours.
   (F)   Inclement weather. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, utility
service shall not be terminated on any day when the St. Louis, Missouri
National Weather Service forecast for the following 24 hours covering the area
in which the residence is located includes a forecast that the temperature will
be 32°F or below; or on any day preceding a holiday or a weekend when such a
forecast indicates that the temperature will be 32°F or below during the
holiday or weekend. Other extreme environmental conditions (e.g. heat, flood
and the like) may also be considered in the termination of utility services.
   (G)   Bills that are not paid. If the bills for utility services are not
paid within 60 days of the original mailing date, collection actions will be
taken to collect the bills. In the event suit is filed, the party liable for
the payment of such account shall pay the city's reasonable attorneys' fees and
reasonable costs of a collection agency.
   (H)   Insufficient funds check or Automated Clearing House (ACH). If the
city receives a check or ACH from a utility customer which is not paid on
presentment, that utility customer will be notified by the city, and the
utility customer shall be required to pay a $25 return check or ACH charge in
addition to the insufficient funds check or ACH amount, and said amount shall
be deemed additional utility charges.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1361, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1487,
passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. 1528, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 38-3-62 DISCONTINUATION OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to discontinue or refuse sewer service to any
premises due to the following reasons:
   (A)   Nonpayment of any charges for services at their current premises or
their prior premises.
   (B)   Where the owner or tenant of premises has been found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or if a danger, hazard or
unsafe condition exists.
   (C)   Diversion of service around the meter.
(Ord. 1499, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 38-3-63 NON-ACCRUAL OF RIGHTS.
   The provisions of §
38-6-61 are intended for administrative guidelines and use only by the City of
Waterloo, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as “city”, and shall not be
construed to confer any rights, claims or causes of action upon a utility
customer of any of the city's utility services on account of any disregard or
violation of the provisions of §
38-3-61.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001)
§ 38-3-64 COST OF LIVING ADJUSTMENT.
   The rates established by this Division VIII for use of sewer services
provided by the city shall be adjusted each year to reflect the percentage
increase of change, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners
and Clerical Workers (CPI-W): Midwest Urban Region, All Items Index, as
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor,
hereinafter referred to as “BLS Index”, using the annual average of the BLS
Index for the calendar year 2001 as a basis for all subsequent adjustments. All
adjustments required hereunder shall be made on the first day of March of each
calendar year using the percent of increase, if any, in the BLS Index for the
previous calendar year as the basis for such adjustment, and the first
adjustment required hereunder shall be on March 1, 2002 for the 12-month period
of March 1, 2002 through the end of February, 2003. The 12-month period of
March 1 through the last day of February of each year shall be known as the
“service year”. The sewer rates established under this section for each
subsequent service year commencing on March 1, 2003 shall reflect the
adjustment as required for the previous year and shall be considered as a base
for calculation of the sewer rates to be made throughout the service year
commencing on said adjustment date.
(Ord. 1211, passed 12-26-2001)
DIVISION IX: SEWER TAP-INS
§ 38-3-65 SEWER TAP-INS.
   The following rates or charges are hereby established for connecting to the
sanitary sewer system of the city:
   (A)   Connection fee. The connection fee shall be as shown on the following
schedule:
SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE
Effective Date Water Line Tap Size
SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE
Effective Date Water Line Tap Size
               1"     1½"   2"     3"     4"     6"     8"     10"     12"
5/1/2012       $2,700 $3,500 $5,000 $5,000 $5,000 $7,500 $7,500 $10,000 $10,000
+3% 5/1/2013   $2,781 $3,605 $5,150 $5,150 $5,150 $7,725 $7,725 $10,300 $10,300
+3% 5/1/2014   $2,864 $3,713 $5,305 $5,305 $5,305 $7,957 $7,957 $10,609 $10,609
+3% 5/1/2015   $2,950 $3,824 $5,464 $5,464 $5,464 $8,196 $8,196 $10,927 $10,927
+3% 5/1/2016   $3,039 $3,939 $5,628 $5,628 $5,628 $8,442 $8,442 $11,255 $11,255
+3% 5/1/2017   $3,130 $4,057 $5,797 $5,797 $5,797 $8,695 $8,695 $11,593 $11,593
+3% 5/1/2018   $3,224 $4,179 $5,971 $5,971 $5,971 $8,956 $8,956 $11,941 $11,941
+3% 5/1/2019   $3,321 $4,304 $6,150 $6,150 $6,150 $9,225 $9,225 $12,299 $12,299
+3% 5/1/2020   $3,421 $4,433 $6,335 $6,335 $6,335 $9,502 $9,502 $12,668 $12,668
+0% 5/1/2021   $3,421 $4,433 $6,335 $6,335 $6,335 $9,502 $9,502 $12,668 $12,668
+0% 5/1/2022   $3,421 $4,433 $6,335 $6,335 $6,335 $9,502 $9,502 $12,668 $12,668
 
   (B)   Payments. Before a permit is issued to connect with the sanitary sewer
system of the city there shall first be paid to the City Clerk, the fees or
charges hereinabove established.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-62) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1037, passed 4-21-
1997; Am. Ord. 1227, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1302, passed 6-21-2004; Am.
Ord. 1361, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1486, passed 7-21-2008; Am. Ord. 1606,
passed 4-23-2012; Am. Ord. 1816, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 38-3-66 CHARGES CONSTITUTE LIEN.
   The charges for connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be a lien upon
the real estate for which sewerage service is supplied whenever any payment due
shall not be paid within ten days of the date the payment is due. If any
payment for charges for connection to the sewer system is not paid within 60
days of the date due, the city may discontinue other municipal utility services
to the premises for which the sewer service is provided. The aforesaid lien may
be enforced in the same manner as mechanic's liens are enforced in the State of
Illinois; however, compliance with the notice provisions of the mechanic's lien
law of the State of Illinois shall not be necessary to such enforcement.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-63) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-67 RECONNECT CHARGE.
   If a utility service is discontinued to any customer for non-payment of a
bill, service shall not be reconnected to that customer until all charges and
penalties have been paid. All costs associated with disconnection of sanitary
sewer services shall be paid for by the property owner.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-65) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 38-3-68 EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES.
   The connection fee established herein shall be effective as of July 1, 2004.
The annual increase will be effective May 1 of each year. All other rates and
service charges for users of the sanitary sewer system in effect upon said date
shall remain in effect except to the extent of any inconsistency with the
provisions of §
38-3-65.
(Ord. 1227, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1302, passed 6-21-2004)
DIVISION X: BULK WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 38-3-74 BULK WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   The city shall accept bulk wastewater at its West Wastewater Treatment Plant
from those haulers having a written letter of agreement from the city's
Director of Public Works. Bulk wastewater from any hauler without a letter of
agreement will not be accepted.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-75 NO WATER SERVICE AND BULK WASTEWATER RATES.
   Rates where there is no water service and for bulk wastewater shall be as
follows:
   (A)   No water service rate. For use of the city sewer by property owners
living within the corporate limits of the city who have no water connection, a
minimum charge of $363.72 per year shall be made.
   (B)   Bulk wastewater rates.
      (1)   For normal bulk wastewater, such as domestic septage, the rate
shall be per the nominal capacity of the vehicle's tank no matter how full it
is. The rate shall be $0.05 per gallon of nominal capacity of the tank.
   (2)   For bulk wastewater requiring an IEPA permit, the rate shall be set by
individual letter of agreement but shall be no less than stated above.
(1993 Code, § 38-3-56) (Ord. 804, passed 9-18-1989; Am. Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-
1999)
§ 38-3-76 LETTER OF AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The bulk wastewater hauler desiring to utilize the city's wastewater
treatment facilities for disposal shall petition the city in writing through
the Director of Public Works for a permit. Said petition shall include the
hauler's name, address, phone number, waste hauler license number, type of
waste, quality, frequency of disposal expected, and, in the case of non-
domestic septage or commercial or industrial wastewater, an IEPA permit
application for city execution of acceptance. After review by the city's
Director of Public Works, the city may issue a letter of agreement for the
hauler to dispose of the waste. If the city's Director of Public Works rejects
the request, said rejection may be without stated reasons, and said rejection
shall be the city's final action on the request for no less than 180 days.
After 180 days the hauler may resubmit a request.
   (B)   The letter of agreement shall include a statement that the city
reserves the right to terminate the agreement at any time without prejudice.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-77 EXCLUDED WASTE.
   The city shall not under any circumstances accept waste individually or
commingled with accepted waste from grease traps, grease interceptors, oil and
grease interceptors, and grit traps.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-78 ACCEPTABLE WASTE.
   The city shall accept (with a letter of agreement) septage from residential,
commercial, institutional and industrial septic tanks and aeration units
provided said septage is from domestic waste operation i.e. restrooms;
kitchens, but not grease traps; shower rooms and laundry rooms. Other waste,
except that excluded in §
38-3-76, shall require a waste-specific IEPA permit issued to the generator.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-79 TESTING.
   The city reserves the right to test every load of waste before receipt, and
to reject any load at any time. Testing, if required, shall be billed to the
hauler. Normally, domestic septage shall not be tested. However, if the city's
Wastewater Treatment Plant Director of Public Works requests it, any load may
be tested.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-80 RECEIPT OF WASTE.
   Waste shall be received at the city's West Wastewater Treatment Plant in
covered tank truck loads of 4,000 gallons or less on Monday through Friday from
8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. prevailing time. Waste shall
not be accepted on holidays. Special time considerations outside those listed
above shall not be made.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-81 COST OF DISPOSAL.
   See §
38-3-74, Bulk Wastewater Rates.
(Ord. 1098, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 38-3-82 PAYMENT OF ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   If the city proceeds in any court of record to enforce and/or defend any
provision of §§
38-3-1 through
38-3-81 herein, as from time to time amended, and is successful in either the
enforcement or defense proceedings as referred to herein, the city shall
recover its reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the course of
those proceedings from the person and/or entity who has been found to have
violated any provision of §§
38-3-1 through
38-3-81 herein and/or who has initiated the proceedings.
(Ord. 1380, passed 8-7-2006)
ARTICLE IV: WATER CODE
Section
Division I: Administration
   
38-4-1   Title
   
38-4-2   Department purpose
   
38-4-3   Water Committee
   
38-4-4   (Reserved)
Division II: Regulations
   
38-4-5   Application for taps and service connections to water works system
   
38-4-6   Contract for water service
   
38-4-7   Property owner liable
   
38-4-8   Estimated bill
   
38-4-9   Consumer lists
   
38-4-10   Meters tested by request; deposit
   
38-4-11   Inaccurate meter
   
38-4-12   Water service deposits
   
38-4-13   Dwelling unit defined
   
38-4-14   No free service
   
38-4-15   All service to be by meter
   
38-4-16   Procedure for disconnection of city utility services
   
38-4-17   Discontinuation or refusal of service
   
38-4-18   Water shortage
   
38-4-19   Repairs
   
38-4-20   Excavations
   
38-4-21   Prohibiting the use of groundwater by the installation or drilling of
wells
   
38-4-22   Meters to be open to inspection
   
38-4-23   Abandonment of water lines
   
38-4-24   City not liable for interruption of supply
   
38-4-25   Site review
   
38-4-26   Dangerous usage
   
38-4-27   Electric ground wires
   
38-4-28   Shortage and purity of supply
   
38-4-29   Noncompliance with rules
   
38-4-30   Fire hydrants
   
38-4-31   Rules to become part of contract
   38-4-32 - 38-4-35   (Reserved)
Division III: Rates
   
38-4-36   Water rates
   
38-4-37   Cost of water tap, water service and meter connections
   
38-4-38   Billing for water service
   
38-4-39    Lawn irrigation and swimming pool service installation
Division IV: Cross-Connection Administration
   
38-4-40   Approved backflow device
   
38-4-41   Cross-connection prohibited; exception
   
38-4-42   Investigations by Director
   
38-4-43   Right to enter premises
   
38-4-44   Notice to customer; reconnect fee
   
38-4-45   Contaminations cost and the consumer
   38-4-46 - 38-4-50   (Reserved)
Division V: Cross-Connection Control Code
   
38-4-51   Purpose
   
38-4-52   Application
   
38-4-53   Responsibility of owner
   
38-4-54   Definitions
   
38-4-55   Water system
   
38-4-56   Cross-connection prohibited
   
38-4-57   Survey and investigation
   
38-4-58   Where protection is required
   
38-4-59   Type of protection required
   
38-4-60   Backflow prevention devices
   
38-4-61   Inspection and maintenance
   
38-4-62   Booster pumps
   
38-4-63   Violations and penalties
   38-4-64 - 38-4-65   (Reserved)
Division VI: Extension of Mains
   
38-4-66   Water extension policy; mains
   
38-4-67   Easements
   
38-4-68   Size and type
   
38-4-69   Title
   
38-4-70   Maintenance and replacement
   
38-4-71   Water and sewer installation; subdivisions
   
38-4-72   Payment of attorneys' fees
DIVISION I: ADMINISTRATION
§ 38-4-1 TITLE.
   The provisions of this Article IV shall be known, referred to and cited as
the “Water Code”.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-2 DEPARTMENT PURPOSE.
   These rules and regulations are designed to govern the supply of water from
the City of Waterloo Water Department, to the customer to insure satisfactory,
safe and non-discriminatory Department operation. They set forth the terms and
conditions for establishing, maintaining, and discontinuance of water service.
They specify the terms of all agreements for service except that the Water
Department reserves the right to enter into special contracts as provided
herein.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-3 WATER COMMITTEE.
   The City Council Standing Committee on Water shall monitor the
implementation of Council policy by the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall ascertain the condition and needs thereof, and shall,
from time to time, report the same to the Mayor and City Council so that a full
understanding thereof shall be had; and generally shall do all acts necessary
to promote the efficiency of the Department.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-4 (RESERVED)
DIVISION II: REGULATIONS
§ 38-4-5 APPLICATION FOR TAPS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS TO WATER WORKS SYSTEM.
   (A)   Application for taps and service connections to water works system for
property inside the city. An applicant desiring a water tap or service
connection with the water system of the city for property inside the city shall
file the prescribed written application at the City Hall, signed by the owner
of the property for which the tap or service connection is desired, or by the
duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall be accompanied by
payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the costs of such service
connection and meter; in the event such application is made by an agent for the
owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written authority
of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
   (B)   Application for taps and service connections to water works systems
for property outside the city. An applicant desiring a water tap or service
connection with the water system of the city for property outside the city
shall file the prescribed written application at the City Hall, signed by the
owner of the property for which the tap or service connection is desired, or by
the duly authorized agent of such owner. The application shall be accompanied
by payment of the fee hereinafter prescribed to cover the costs of such service
connection and meter; in the event such application is made by an agent for the
owner, then the application shall also be accompanied by the written authority
of the owner to the agent for the making of the application.
      (1)   If the property for which a water tap or service connection is
requested is contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit annexation of
the property by the city; (a) then such property must be annexed to the city
before such a water tap or service connection shall be allowed; or (b) if a
legally enforceable annexation agreement acceptable to the city and a petition
for annexation for such property are tendered to the city by the owner of such
property, then a water tap or service connection may be allowed upon tentative
approval of the annexation agreement by the City Council by the requisite vote
required for final approval of annexation agreement pending final consideration
and action upon such annexation agreement.
      (2)   If the property for which a water tap or service connection is
requested is not contiguous to a boundary of the city so as to permit
annexation of the property by the city, then before a water tap or service
connection shall be allowed, a legally enforceable annexation agreement
acceptable to the city, which runs with the property, must be tendered to the
city by the owner of such property, wherein such owner agrees that upon such
property becoming contiguous to the boundary of the city so as to permit
annexation of such property by the city, that said property shall be annexed to
the city. Upon approval of such agreement by the requisite vote required for
annexation agreement, the request for a water tap or service connection may be
allowed.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section, the city may deny an application for a water tap or service
connection for property outside the city whenever the City Council determines
in its discretion that: (a) such a tap or connection would jeopardize or
adversely affect the water system of the city or water service to existing or
committed future customers of water service within or without the city; or (b)
existing main lines are deemed to be inadequate or inconveniently located for
the requested tap-on or service connection.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-6 CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Customer accepts service.  
      (1)   The rates, rules and regulations contained in this Article IV shall
constitute and be considered a part of the contract with every person, company
or corporation who is supplied with water service from the water system, and
every person, company or corporation, hereinafter called a “customer”, who
accepts and uses water service shall be held to have consented to be bound
thereby.
      (2)   Applicant by tenant. If the prospective customer is a tenant of the
premises to be served, the property owner, or his or her legal representative
or designated agent, must countersign the application before the application
will be granted. The services of the water system shall be deemed to be
furnished to both the occupant and the owner of any such premises.
   (B)   Not liable for interrupted service. The Water Department will endeavor
at all times to provide a regular and uninterrupted supply of service, but in
case the supply of service shall be interrupted or irregular or defective, or
fail from causes beyond its control, or through ordinary negligence of
employees, servants or agents, the Water Department shall not be liable
therefore.
   (C)   Using water service without paying. Any person using water service
from the city without paying therefor, or who shall be found guilty of breaking
any water meter or appurtenances or by-passing the water meter, shall, upon
conviction, be fined a sum as is provided in §
1-1-19 of this code.
   (D)   Destroying or obstructing property. A person found guilty of defacing,
obstructing, tampering, injuring or destroying or in any manner limiting the
use of availability of any fixture, meter or any property of water service, or
erecting signs on the property of the Water Department without permission,
shall, upon conviction of such act, be fined as provided in §
1-1-19 of this code.
   (E)   Service obtained by fraud. All applications for water service must be
made in the name of the head of the household, firm or corporation, using the
established spelling of that person's or firm's name. Attempts to obtain
service by the use of other names, different spellings or by substituting other
persons or firms will be considered a subterfuge and service will be denied. If
service has been discontinued because of non-payment of bills or any unpaid
obligation, and service again has been obtained through subterfuge,
misrepresentation or fraud, that service will be promptly disconnected and the
whole or such part of the advanced payment as may be necessary to satisfy the
unpaid obligation shall be retained by the city and credited to the proper
account.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill. Failure to receive a bill shall not excuse a
customer from his or her obligation to pay within the time specified. Should
the department be unable to bill a customer for services used during any month,
the billing next made shall include the charges for services used during the
unbilled month. A month shall be considered as that period of approximately 30
days.
   (G)   Removal of meters. All meters shall remain the property of the
department and may be removed from the customer's premises at any time without
notice for the purpose of testing and repairing the same, or upon
discontinuance of service. Upon discovery of any unlawful act by any customer,
his or her agent or employee herein prohibited or upon failure to comply with
any other rules and regulations of the department, such service shall be
disconnected.
   (H)   Consolidated bill; late payment penalty.  Bills for all utility
services, which presently include electric, gas, water and sewer services, and
for garbage and refuse collection, shall be consolidated and mailed to all
users of such services on or about the fifteenth day of each month following
the month during which services were used. Full payment of all bills shall be
due and payable on or before the fifth day of the next month. If a bill is not
paid on or before said date, a penalty equal to 10% of the total amount due on
the current total utility and garbage and refuse collection bill, exclusive of
taxes, will be added thereto for each month or part thereof, commencing with
the calendar month for which services were rendered and billed.
   (I)   Lien on property.  
      (1)   In the event the charges for water service, including any penalty
then due, are not paid within 60 days after rendition of the bill for such
service, such charges and penalties shall constitute liens upon the real estate
for which such service is supplied, and the City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to file sworn statements showing such delinquent charges in the office
of the Recorder of Deeds, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed
notice for the payment of such charges and penalties for such services.
      (2)   If the consumer of water whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of
the premises, and the Clerk has notice of this, then notice shall be mailed to
the owner of the premises, if his or her address be known to the Clerk,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for a period of 60 days after it has been
rendered.
      (3)   The failure of the Clerk to record such lien or mail such notice,
or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right
to foreclose the lien for unpaid water bills as mentioned in divisions (I)(1)
and (I)(2).
   (J)   Resale. No water shall be resold or distributed by the customer
thereof from the city supply to any premises other than that for which
application has been made and the meter installed, except in cases of
emergency.
   (K)   Disconnect notices. Water service shall be deemed to have been
supplied to any property connected to the water system during any month, unless
the consumer, prior to the first day of the month, has given written notice to
the Collector that service should be disconnected on or prior to the first day
of such month. Upon receipt of such notice, the water service shall be
disconnected and shall not be resumed until a written request for resumption of
water service shall be made.
   (N)   City not liable. All connections to the water system under the
provisions of this Article IV shall be upon the express conditions that the
city, its agents, employees and officials, shall not be liable for damage
caused by reason of the breakage of any main, branches, service pipes,
apparatus or appurtenances connected with the water system, or any part or
portion of the water system, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions
or renewals.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1214, passed 12-17-2001)
§ 38-4-7 PROPERTY OWNER LIABLE.
   The property owner shall be held liable for all charges left unpaid by any
tenant where the property owner has countersigned the application for service
where said delinquent charges are not paid for by said owner; provided,
however, the property owner shall be liable only for the installation and
connection charges when he or she has signed the application only for such
purposes.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-8 ESTIMATED BILL.
   (A)   In case any meter shall stop or for any reason fail to integrate
properly, or upon failure to read the meter, the Collector may estimate the
monthly bill for water service. Whenever possible, estimated bills will be
based on the same month of the prior year.
   (B)   The Water Department will endeavor to make an actual reading of the
customer's meter(s) at least every second billing period. A $25 service charge
will apply if the customer does not allow the water meter to be accessible
after two consecutive billing periods in which an estimated bill has been
rendered. The Collector may render an estimated bill for any billing period in
which:
      (1)   The Water Department has taken appropriate and reasonable measures
to read the customer's meter(s).
      (2)   The customer has knowingly and willfully denied reasonable access
to the Water Department's representative for the purpose of taking an actual
meter reading.
      (3)   The customer has otherwise made an actual meter(s) reading
unnecessarily difficult.
      (4)   Circumstances beyond the Water Department's control make an actual
meter(s) reading extremely difficult.
   (C)   Only in unusual cases will more than two consecutive estimated bills
be rendered.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-9 CONSUMER LISTS.
   It is hereby made the Collector's duty, or his or her designated
representative's duty, to prepare or cause to be prepared a complete and
accurate list of all premises and properties receiving water service, showing
the name and address of the occupant, and the owner of the same. The list shall
be kept up to date, and shall be corrected from time to time to allow changes
in the occupancy or ownership of any such property or premises.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-10 METERS TESTED BY REQUEST; DEPOSIT.
   A customer may request a meter to be tested for accuracy, which test will be
made by a meter shop in accordance with the standard regulations for meter
testing as prescribed by the Illinois Commerce Commission for Public Utilities.
Each request for the test of a meter for accuracy shall be accompanied by a
deposit of $225 for residential meters, and the actual cost of any meters one
inch or larger. If the meter so tested shall be found to be accurate, the
deposit shall be retained by the Water Department as compensation for the test.
If the error in registration is found to be more than that permitted, not in
the customer’s favor, then the cost of the test shall be borne by the Water
Department, and the amount of the deposit shall be returned to the customer.
The customer’s bill shall be adjusted in accordance with the result of the
tests if error is established.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1651, passed 9-16-2013)
§ 38-4-11 INACCURATE METER.
   The quantity of water recorded by the meter shall be accepted as correct by
both the customer and the Water Department, except when the meter has been
found to be registering inaccurately or has ceased to register. In either case,
the meter will be promptly repaired and tested by the Water Department and the
quantity of water used will be determined by the registration of the meter in
the same period for the preceding year or in accordance with §
38-4-8.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-12 WATER SERVICE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Water service deposits shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of this article.
   (B)   Written application must be made for each water service in accordance
with this code. The applicant shall deposit the sum of $50 for the residential
or small commercial service. The amount to be deposited by a large industrial
customer shall be determined by the City Council.
   (C)   Meter deposits. Any deposit required by the Collector and held by the
city with respect to water service shall be refundable after one year of non-
delinquent payment for all water charges, or upon termination of service to the
customer, if all bills have been paid and the city is satisfied that its meter
and other equipment, if any, on the customer's premises, have been left
accessible and undamaged. If service is terminated, the deposit less any
outstanding charges will be refunded to the customer. No interest shall be paid
on the deposit.
   (D)   Transfer of service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all water charges as required by the
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon transfer of water service for such customer from one service
location to another service location, so long as there has not been an
interruption of service to such customer for a period greater than six months.
   (E)   Additional service. If a deposit has been required and there has been
one year of non-delinquent payment for all water charges as required by this
chapter, such a customer shall not be required to make the deposit required by
this section upon application for an additional service location if such
customer is receiving water service from the city at the time of such
application.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-13 DWELLING UNIT DEFINED.
   All persons or families residing in a dwelling under one roof, be it an
apartment, or homes converted into more than one dwelling place, each family or
individual resident residing therein shall be deemed an individual consumer,
and such homes or apartments or dwellings shall be billed for at least one
minimum water account, according to the number of families or individual
residents residing therein.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-14 NO FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished to any person, firm, organization or
corporation, public or private. The City Council reserves the right to impose
special rates and charges in cases where particular circumstances render the
regular rates inadequate or unjust.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-15 ALL SERVICE TO BE BY METER.
   (A)   All water service, whether for domestic, commercial, industrial or
city use, shall be metered. All meters shall be so placed and installed as to
render the same accessible at all times for the purpose of reading or repairing
and so as to be free from danger of freezing. Meters outside of a building
shall be set in a suitable meter box approved by the city. Water will not be
turned on for new connections until the meter has been installed and all other
requirements of this Article IV on the part of the property owner have been
fully complied with.
   (B)   Structures with fire protection systems shall be provided with a back-
flow preventer approved by the city and a full-flow water meter. The
determination of which to use shall be made by the city.
      (1)   Backflow preventers shall be approved by the city for fire
protection purposes. They shall have AWWA isolation valves on both sides of the
unit. A by-pass meter sized to the facilities needs shall be provided. Meter
shall accurately detect and record 0.5 gallons per minute rate at its low end.
Ownership, operation and maintenance of the backflow preventer shall be the
responsibility of the building owner. The by-pass meter and a remote reading
head shall be by a manufacturer designated by the city.
      (2)   Full-flow fire protection meters shall be by a manufacturer
designated by the city. A meter shall accurately detect and record 0.5 gallons
per minute rate at its low end. The meter shall be owned, operated and
maintained by the building owner. The building owner shall annually provide the
city with a third party certified statement of meter accuracy. Meters shall
have remote reading heads.
   (C)   Domestic and fire protection service shall be served by independent
lines from the city main.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-16 PROCEDURE FOR DISCONNECTION OF CITY UTILITY SERVICES.
   City officers and employees shall follow the following internal procedures
for disconnection and reconnection of city utility services for city customers,
hereinafter referred to as “utility customer”, who are in default on payment of
their utility charges or other obligations for utility services, or who are in
violation of the city's regulations regarding the use of city utility services.
   (A)   Notice of termination. If the utility charges are not paid by a date
fixed by the Collector of the City in the shut-off notice, which date shall not
be less than ten days from the date of said notice, or if the utility customer
is in violation of any of the ordinances, rules or regulations of the city with
regard to city utility services, the city may discontinue such service after
the city mails a written notice to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail, or personally delivers the notice to the utility
customer or posts a notice on the premises to be disconnected of the city's
intention to discontinue utility services. The form of the shut-off notice
shall be prepared by the Collector of the City, hereinafter referred to as
“Collector”. If the utility customer is not the owner of the premises served
according to the city's records, said written notice may also be mailed to the
owner of the premises if such owner's name and address have previously been
filed with the Collector for the purpose of receiving such notices. The notice
shall state the utility charges and the date the delinquent bill is due or, if
applicable, the ordinance, rule or regulation which is alleged to have been
violated. The utility customer may contact the Collector for resolution of any
complaint in case a dispute concerning the amount due or other problems with
the account exist, and the utility customer is entitled to appeal any decision
of the Collector on any complaint and have a hearing on such appeal before the
City Utility Disconnect Committee of the City Council, hereinafter referred to
as the “Committee”.
   (B)   Administrative resolution. If, prior to disconnection of service, a
utility customer calls, visits or writes the Collector complaining of an
overcharge or other problem with the account, the Collector shall do one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Render a decision within seven days from the date or receipt of a
utility customer's written complaint and stay termination of services until the
Collector renders a decision or until all appeals are exhausted, whichever is
later;
      (2)   Cause an investigation, including but not limited to a meter
reading at the subject premises to investigate possible errors in billing,
leaks and connections;
      (3)   Establish a written credit plan in cases of proven financial
difficulties by the utility customer;
      (4)   If the Collector finds merit to the dispute, the Collector shall
make an adjustment of the utility customer's bill;
      (5)   If the Collector finds that the dispute has no merit, the Collector
shall communicate that decision to the utility customer by certified mail or by
first class U.S. mail or personal notice to the utility customer or by posting
of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. The notice of the decision
shall specify that if the utility charges are not paid or the utility customer
does not appeal the decision on or before seven days from the date of mailing,
posting or delivery of said notice, the service shall be discontinued.
   (C)   Appeal hearing. Any utility customer may appeal the decision of the
Collector to the Committee within seven days of the date of the mailing,
posting or delivery of the decision of the Collector. If the utility customer
requests a hearing, the hearing date shall be scheduled for a regular or
special meeting of the Committee. The hearing date and time shall be confirmed
by first class U.S. mail. At such hearing, the utility customer shall have the
right to appear at the hearing in person and with a representative of his or
her choice, to present evidence in his or her own behalf and to examine any
evidence which the city might introduce. The Committee may conduct its own
investigation of the utility customer's complaint and may present any evidence
with respect thereto at the hearing. Within seven days after the conclusion of
the hearing, the Committee shall render a decision on the utility customer's
complaint. Such decision shall be communicated to the utility customer by
certified mail or by first class U.S. mail, by personal delivery or by posting
notice of the decision on the premises to be disconnected. If the decision is
unfavorable to the utility customer, notice of the decision shall specify that
if the utility charges are not paid or the violation is not abated on or before
seven days from the date of the service of the notice, the service shall be
disconnected.
   (D)   Credit extension. 
      (1)   When a utility customer's utility charges are in arrears because of
financial difficulties proven to the satisfaction of the Collector, or the
Committee in case of appeal, and the utility customer has not defaulted on a
previous credit extension, upon request to the Collector or the Committee, a
credit extension may be given by the Collector or the Committee to the utility
customer, whereby the utility customer shall pay the amount in arrears on the
basis of a deferred payment schedule agreed to by the Collector or the
Committee. The agreement shall be prepared by the Collector.
      (2)   If a utility customer defaults on the deferred payment schedule,
all utility charges in arrears shall be immediately due and payable, and no
further credit extensions shall be granted to that utility customer. No
additional hearing shall be required prior to the termination of utility
services if all outstanding charges are not paid before the termination date as
originally fixed or changed by the Collector or the Committee.
   (E)   Reinstatement of service. If service is discontinued because of non-
payment of utility charges or because of violation of any ordinances, rules or
regulations of the city regarding utility service, such service shall not be
restored until all charges, costs and damages, if any, have been paid to the
city or the violation has been corrected. Prior to restoration, the additional
sum of $35 for each utility service provided shall be paid to the city for the
cost of reconnecting such utility service during regular working hours of city
utility employees. Regular working hours shall be the usual hours worked by
city utility employees in the field at that time of the year on Mondays through
Fridays and shall not include holidays and weekends. If a utility customer
requests the City Utility Department to make reconnection of utility services
other than during regular working hours and the Department agrees, then the
utility customer shall be required to pay the sum of $125 for each utility
service to cover the city's cost incurred for working city employees after
regular working hours.
   (F)   Inclement weather. Notwithstanding any provision hereof, utility
service shall not be terminated on any day when the St. Louis, Missouri
National Weather Service forecast for the following 24 hours covering the area
in which the residence is located includes a forecast that the temperature will
be 32°F or below; or on any day preceding a holiday or a weekend when such a
forecast indicates that the temperature will be 32°F or below during the
holiday or weekend. Other extreme environmental conditions (e.g. heat, flood
and the like) may also be considered in the termination of utility services.
   (G)   Bills that are not paid. If the bills for utility services are not
paid within 60 days of the original mailing date, collection actions will be
taken to collect the bills. In the event suit is filed, the party liable for
the payment of such account shall pay the city's reasonable attorneys' fees and
reasonable costs of a collection agency.
   (H)   Insufficient funds check or Automated Clearing House (ACH). If the
city receives a check or ACH from a utility customer which is not paid on
presentment, that utility customer will be notified by the city, and the
utility customer shall be required to pay a $25 return check or ACH charge in
addition to the insufficient funds check or ACH amount, and said amount shall
be deemed additional utility charges.
   (I)   Non-accrual of rights. The provisions of this section are intended for
administrative guidelines and use only by the City of Waterloo, Illinois,
hereinafter referred to as “city”, and shall not be construed to confer any
rights, claims or causes of action upon a utility customer of any of the city's
utility services on account of any disregard or violation of the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 1215, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1362, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1487,
passed 8-18-2008; Am. Ord. 1528, passed 9-21-2009)
§ 38-4-17 DISCONTINUATION OR REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   The city reserves the right to discontinue or refuse water service to any
premises due to the following reasons:
   (A)   Nonpayment of any charges for services at their current premises or
their prior premises.
   (B)   Where the owner or tenant of premises has been found guilty of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or if a danger, hazard or
unsafe condition exists.
   (C)   Diversion of service around the meter.
(Ord. 1499, passed 12-1-2008)
§ 38-4-18 WATER SHORTAGE.
   (A)   The Mayor, Director of Public Works and the Water Committee Chairman
may declare a water shortage at such time as it finds that the water supply or
the capacity of the city to deliver water is approaching levels at which the
prohibition of lawn watering will be required to preserve the ability of the
city to deliver necessary amounts of water to each water user.
   (B)   Upon such declaration of water shortage, the Water Emergency Plan will
be implemented.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-19 REPAIRS.
   All repairs on service pipes from the property line curb stop to the
building shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises
served. If no curb stop exists, one will be installed by the city and closed
until repairs are made by the owner of the premises.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-20 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the code provisions relating to excavations in streets, and
no such excavation shall be made unless a permit is obtained.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Cross-reference:
   See Street Regulations,
Ch. 33
§ 38-4-21 PROHIBITING THE USE OF GROUNDWATER BY THE INSTALLATION OR DRILLING OF
WELLS.
   Except for such uses or methods in existence before the effective date of
this section, the use or attempt to use groundwater as a potable water supply,
at or within the properties described hereinafter, by the installation or
drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited, expressly
including points of withdrawal by the city:
   (A)   406 West Third Street, Waterloo, Illinois 62298, Parcel No. 07-25-183-
005-000;
   (B)   116 South Moore Street, Waterloo, Illinois 62298, Parcel No. 07-25-
181-035-000;
   (C)   205 South Moore Street, Waterloo, Illinois 62298, Parcel No. 07-25-
183-001-000;
   (D)   202 South Moore Street, Waterloo, Illinois 62298, Parcel No. 07-25-
183-006-000.
(Ord. 1653, passed 11-18-2013; Am. Ord. 1655, passed 1-20-2014)
§ 38-4-22 METERS TO BE OPEN TO INSPECTION.
   All water meters and water fixtures, connections and appurtenances on
private property connected with the water system of the city shall be open to
the inspection of the proper officers and employees of the city at all
reasonable times.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-23 ABANDONMENT OF WATER LINES.
   If a building's water service is abandoned by the property owner, the old
water service line shall be disconnected and capped at the point of attachment
at the main water system. The cap shall be approved by the city and must be
inspected by the city prior to backfilling. All cost and expenses incident to
the removal and capping at the main shall be borne by the owner.
(Ord. 1768, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 38-4-24 CITY NOT LIABLE FOR INTERRUPTION OF SUPPLY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to shut off the supply of water whenever
it is necessary to make repairs, improvements, enforce rules, or for any
operational reason. Notice will be given to consumers, if possible, but in
emergencies, the water may be shut off without notice. All hot water faucets
shall be left open during any shut-off to prevent damage to plumbing. The city
shall not be held responsible for or liable because of any shut-off of supply
for a direct or resultant damages to any person, company or consumer, or to any
pipe, fixture or plumbing.
   (B)   Water for steam boilers, gas engines, ice plants, or other industrial
use will not be furnished by direct pressure from the mains, but only to tanks
holding ample reserve supply. Should any equipment be supplied direct from.
mains, then in case of any shut-off of water, the city will not be held
responsible or liable for any direct or resulting damages because of
interrupted supply, insufficient pressure or otherwise.
   (C)   Whenever water mains, pipes and service connections are taken up,
shut-off or interfered with by reason of any city street improvements, the city
will endeavor to maintain service so far as is reasonably possible, but will
not be directly or indirectly liable for any interruption, poor pressure, or
damage of any kind either to consumers, adjacent or to other consumers affected
thereby.
   (D)   The city expressly stipulates with all its consumers and other persons
that it will not insure or be responsible or liable in any manner for any
losses or damages, direct or resultant by reason of any fire, and all water
service furnished shall always be conditional upon acts of God, inevitable
accidents, fire, strikes, riots, war, or any other cause not within the
reasonable control of the city.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-25 SITE REVIEW.
   The city shall have access to all portions of the premises of the consumer
at any reasonable time for a site review of the use of water, and the
consumer's pipe, fixtures, plumbing, and any other apparatus, in any manner
connected to the water system of the city. The city shall have the right and
option to demand change or stopping of use or to require any repair, change,
removal or improvement of any pipe, fixture, plumbing or other apparatus found
to be unsafe.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-26 DANGEROUS USAGE.
   The city shall have the right to refuse water service to or to discontinue
water service without notice at any time to any consumer if the city finds any
apparatus or appliances, the operation of which may be detrimental to the water
system of the city, or to any or all of its consumers. Sandpipers, hydrants,
gate valves and any other apparatus that cause water hammer or any danger to
the water system or other customer's plumbing shall be immediately repaired or
removed upon notice from the city, or, at its option, the city may immediately
discontinue the service, without notice, and without any liability or direct or
resulting damages therefrom.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-27 ELECTRIC GROUND WIRES.
   All persons are strictly forbidden to attach any electric ground wire to any
plumbing or water piping. The city will hold the owner of the premises
responsible and liable for any damage to the property, or injury to the
employees of the city caused by such ground wire. All owners and consumers
shall remove any existing ground wires immediately upon written notice from the
city. If not so disconnected after five days written notice, the city, through
its officials, may enter the property and remove such ground wires, and the
consumer shall pay all costs.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-28 SHORTAGE AND PURITY OF SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be held responsible for, or in any manner liable to any
person, company, consumer, or public body for any claim of damage, either
direct or resultant because of any shortage of water supply, any shut-off of
water supply for any reason, any bursting or leakage of either the consumer's
or city's mains, pipes and fixtures, any pollution or impurity in water supply,
or any fire or water damage.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-29 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES.
   If any consumer fails to comply fully with any of the rules and regulations
in force, the city shall notify the consumer of such failure. If the consumer
does not remedy same, as the rules provide, and within a reasonable time, the
city shall have the right to discontinue service. Except in cases of non-
payment, emergency, necessity, or as otherwise provided, the city will not
discontinue service for violation of any rules until five days after notice has
been given and violation has not been remedied.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-30 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All hydrants shall be owned, maintained and used only by the city. Use of
water from fire hydrants by contractors and others shall be only upon
permission by the city, after approved application to the city and a meter
acceptable to the city has been installed.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-31 RULES TO BECOME PART OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   All of the rules and regulations concerning the use of the facilities
and the consumption of water shall be adopted, and the same shall become a part
of the contract with every water consumer, and every water consumer shall be
considered to take water from the city, subject thereto and bound thereby.
   (B)   All service must be initiated on an Application for Municipal Utility
Service prescribed by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§§ 38-4-32 - 38-4-35 (RESERVED)
DIVISION III: RATES
§ 38-4-36 WATER RATES.
   The water rates which shall be paid by every metered water service
(including fire protection systems, lawn sprinkler and swimming pool service
systems) shall be as follows:
   (A)   Inside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons (or less) $13.25 (minimum)
Next 9,000 gallons            $13.56 per 1,000 gallons
Next 10,000 gallons           $12.81 per 1,000 gallons
Next 30,000 gallons           $12.63 per 1,000 gallons
Over 50,000 gallons           $12.29 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   Outside city limits.
 
First 1,000 gallons (or less) $18.34 (minimum)
Next 9,000 gallons            $18.79 per 1,000 gallons
Over 10,000 gallons           $17.68 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Tank water rate. The water rate, which shall be paid by every person
for tank water at the municipal utility plant, shall be a flat rate of $0.25
per 13 gallons.
   (D)   Effective date of rates. The rates set forth in this section shall be
effective for water supply until changed by the provisions of this Water Code.
   (E)   Operating expense adjustment. Any changes in operating expenses, not
including cost of water, shall be passed uniformly and directly to all bills
rendered after such determination has been made by the Collector of the city.
The determination shall be made using the latest fiscal audit report with the
“base operating expenses” being the operating expenses recorded for the
preceding fiscal year. Changes in operating expenses shall be limited to the
following:
      (1)   Demonstrable changes identified in the fiscal reports of the city.
      (2)   Changes in wages, salaries, payroll or payroll expenses applicable
after they have been put into effect.
      (3)   Direct and permanently continuing costs over which the city has no
control.
      (4)   Changes in debt service.
   (F)   Cost of living adjustment. The water rates established by this
Division III for use of water services provided by the city shall be adjusted
each year to reflect the percentage increase of change, if any, in the Consumer
Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers (CPI-W): Midwest Urban
Region, All Items Index, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the
U.S. Department of Labor, hereinafter referred to as “BLS Index”, using the
annual average of the BLS Index for the calendar year 2001 as a basis for all
subsequent adjustments. All adjustments required hereunder shall be made on
March 1 of each calendar year using the percent of increase, if any, in the BLS
Index for the previous calendar year as the basis for such adjustment, and the
first adjustment required hereunder shall be on March 1, 2002 for the 12-month
period of March 1, 2002 through the end of February, 2003. The 12-month period
of March 1 through the last day of February of each year shall be known as the
“service year”. The water rates established under this section for each
subsequent service year commencing on March 1, 2003 shall reflect the
adjustment as required for the previous year and shall be considered as a base
for calculation of the water rates to be made throughout the service year,
commencing on said adjustment date.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1210, passed 12-26-2001; Am. Ord. 1267,
passed 8-25-2003; Am. Ord. 1362, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1441, passed 7-23-
2007; Am. Ord. 1470, passed 3-24-2008; Am. Ord. 1489, passed 8-25-2008; Am.
Ord. 1549, passed 5-17-2010; Am. Ord. 1617, passed 10-22-2012; Am. Ord. 1708,
passed 1-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1870, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 38-4-37 COST OF WATER TAP, WATER SERVICE AND METER CONNECTIONS.
   Applicants for taps, connections, water service lines and meters to be
attached to mains owned, operated or maintained by the city shall pay each of
the following charges, as applicable:
   (A)   Tap-in charge. The charge to tap a water main for the purpose of
connecting an individual residential or commercial service to serve premises of
the applicant shall be as follows:
      (1)   Inside corporate limits; residential. The water tap-in fee for each
dwelling unit within the corporate limits of the city shall be as follows: 1"
service $750, 1½" service $875, 2" and larger service $1,000.
      (2)   Inside corporate limits; commercial and industrial. The water tap-
in fee for commercial and industrial units within the corporate limits of the
city shall be $1,500.
      (3)   Outside corporate limits; residential. The water tap-in fee for
each dwelling unit outside the corporate limits of the city shall be as
follows: 1" service $1,500, 1½" service $1,750, 2" and larger service $2,000.
      (4)   Outside corporate limits; commercial and industrial. The water tap-
in fee for commercial and industrial units outside the corporate limits of the
city shall be $3,000, plus $1,500 for each 1,500 square feet of total perimeter
building area, or fraction thereof, in excess of 1,500 square feet.
      (5)   Payment of fees.
         (a)   Payment of the required tap-in fee shall be made at the time of
application for municipal water service or building permit, whichever may occur
first and be applicable. Such payment of the connection fee shall be paid by
the individual or developer applicant in the amount as determined pursuant to
divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   Payments made shall be reported to the Public Works Director or
his or her duly authorized representative.
      (6)   Definitions. Whenever the following terms are used in this section,
they shall have meanings herein ascribed to them:
         COMMERCIAL UNIT. A building or a portion of a building designed for
use as an independent commercial unit.
         DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion of a building designed for or
used as a dwelling exclusively by one family or individual as an independent
housekeeping unit or any other lesser use.
         INDUSTRIAL UNIT. A building or area or portion of a building or an
area designed for use as an independent industrial unit.
   (B)   Water service installation.
      (1)   It will be the responsibility of the applicant to furnish and
install a corporation stop, service pipe to the premises terminating with a
curb stop, stop box, meter yoke, meter tile and lid assembly. The city will
provide a 3/4-inch touch read meter.
      (2)   An applicant for water service shall make the water service
installation to the curb stop with a site review to be provided by the city at
a charge of $50 per service line, which shall be paid at the time of
application. All other installation costs under this provision will be paid by
the applicant.
   (C)   Charge for meter; size. A meter charge of $135 shall be paid by the
applicant for all meters 3/4-inch in size. All installations requiring meters
larger than 3/4-inch shall be by special agreement, the conditions of which
shall be set by the city to cover all costs incurred by the city for meters
larger than 3/4-inch in size.
   (D)   Advanced payment required. The applicant shall pay all appropriate
charges and fees in advance, before the building permit is issued.
   (E)   Conformance to construction specification standards. All pipes,
fittings, and appurtenances shall conform to the Waterloo Construction Details.
   (F)   Effective date of tap-in charge. The tap-in charges set forth in this
section shall be effective on and after June 1, 2002, until changed by the
provisions of this Water Code.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1228, passed 5-20-2002; Am. Ord. 1362,
passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1607, passed 4-23-2012)
§ 38-4-38 BILLING FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Regular.
      (1)   Bills for service will be rendered monthly unless otherwise
specified.
      (2)   The term "month", for billing purposes, will be the period between
any two consecutive readings of the meters by the Water Department, such
readings to be taken as nearly as practicable every 30 days. All bills for
service shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of the Water
Department's Rate Schedule effective at the time of rendering service.
   (B)   Budget payment plan.
      (1)   A budget payment plan is available to all qualifying customers. A
budget payment plan may be established at any time of the year. The monthly
budget amount shall be calculated by the Collector on the basis of the
estimated consumption and estimated applicable rates through the end of the
budget year (May 1 through April 30). Customers who have arrears shall not be
allowed to establish a budget payment plan until their account has been without
arrears for 12 consecutive months.
      (2)   An applicant for a budget plan shall be informed at the time of
application that budget amounts shall be reviewed and changed every 12 months,
if necessary, in order to reflect current circumstances. Adjustments to the
budget amount will be made with the objective that the customer's under-billed
or over-billed balance at the end of the budget year shall be less than one
month's budget amount. Customers on the budget payment plan shall be notified
of adjustments through either a bill insert or message on the bill. When an
adjustment is made to a budget payment amount, the customer will be informed of
the adjustment at the same time the bill containing the adjustment is rendered.
      (3)   At the end of a budget year, if an under-billed or over-billed
balance exists in a customer's account, the balance shall be handled as
follows:
         (a)   A customer's debit balance will be paid in full, or the monthly
budget amount, whichever is greater.
         (b)   A customer's credit balance will be applied against the
customer's account or, at the customer's option, a refund shall be made.
      (4)   If a budget payment is not paid, the customer shall be notified
with the next billing that if proper payment is not received subsequent to this
notification, the next regular billing may cause the removal of the customer
from the budget plan and discontinuance of service.
   (C)   Billing for fractional month service.  When a customer commences or
discontinues service between regular monthly meter reading dates, the Collector
will bill the customer as closely as possible to the date of disconnect.
   (D)   Discontinuation of service. The city reserves the right to discontinue
water service to any premises on account of non-payment of any charges, or
where the owner or tenant of such premises has been found guilty of a violation
of any of the provisions of this code, or if a danger, hazard or unsafe
condition exists.
§ 38-4-39 LAWN IRRIGATION AND SWIMMING POOL SERVICE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A written application for a lawn irrigation or swimming pool service
installation must be completed and submitted to the Building Official.
   (B)   Charge for meter; size. A meter charge of $135 shall be paid by the
applicant for all meters ¾ inch in size. All installations requiring meters
larger than ¾ inch shall be by special agreement, the conditions of which shall
be set by the city to cover all costs incurred by the city for meters larger
than ¾ inch in size. The city will provide the ¾ inch touch read meter.
   (C)   Advanced payment required. The applicant shall pay all appropriate
charges and fees in advance, before the application is approved.
   (D)   A site review will be conducted by the city at a cost of $50 per
service line, which shall be paid at the time of application.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of the applicant to furnish and install
a shut-off valve, backflow prevention device, service pipe to the irrigation
and/or swimming pool system, meter yoke, meter box and lid assembly approved by
the city. All other installation costs under this provision will be paid by the
applicant.
   (F)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on the
irrigation and/or swimming pool service line. Installation of approved devices
shall be made in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements. Each device
shall be tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more
frequently if recommended by the manufacturer. The annual inspection report
shall be sent to the Director of Public Works or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   (G)   Conformance to construction specification standards. All pipes,
fittings, and appurtenances shall conform to the Waterloo Construction Details.
(Ord. 1362, passed 12-19-2005; Am. Ord. 1441, passed 7-23-2007)
DIVISION IV: CROSS-CONNECTION ADMINISTRATION
§ 38-4-40 APPROVED BACKFLOW DEVICE.
   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the Plumbing Code. If, in accordance with the Plumbing Code or in the judgment
of the Inspector, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Inspector shall give notice to
the water customer to install such an approved device immediately. The water
customer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Plumbing Code, the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation as
required by the Plumbing Code, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and
local regulations.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-41 CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit
to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply enters the supply or
distribution system of the city, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Director and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-42 INVESTIGATIONS BY DIRECTOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Director to cause surveys and investigations to
be made of commercial, industrial and other properties served by the public
water supply, whether actual or potential hazards to the public water supply
may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public
record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the
Inspector shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys shall be maintained and
available for review for a period of at least five years.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-43 RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   The approved Cross-connection Control Device Inspector shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system for the purpose of verifying the
presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Inspector or his or her
authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer
regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand, the
owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Inspector any information which the Inspector may request regarding the piping
system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information when demanded shall, within the discretion of the Inspector, be
evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-44 NOTICE TO CUSTOMER; RECONNECT FEE.
   (A)   The Director, or such person as he or she may designate, is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant
thereof, the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation
of the provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and
until a reconnection fee of $100 is paid to the City Clerk.
   (B)   Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
Inspector is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Inspector of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential contamination or
pollution of the public water supply.
   (C)   The public water supply, the Inspector or the agents or assigns shall
not be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which
may result from termination of the customer's water supply in accordance with
the terms of this chapter, whether or not said termination was with or without
notice.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-45 CONTAMINATIONS COST AND THE CONSUMER.
   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the cost of clean-up of
the potable water supply system.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§§ 38-4-46 - 38-4-50 (RESERVED)
DIVISION V: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL CODE
§ 38-4-51 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these rules and regulations is:
   (A)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system.
   (B)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer's potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources or systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
   (C)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-52 APPLICATION.
   These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises served by the public
potable water supply system of the city.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-53 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   The owner or official custodian shall be responsible for protection of the
public water supply system from contamination due to backflow or back-
siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service connection. If,
in the judgement of the Director or his or her authorized representative, an
approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public
water supply system, the Director shall give notice to the consumer to install
such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to the
premises. The consumer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense. Failure, refusal or inability on the part of
the consumer to install such device or devices immediately shall constitute
grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such device or
devices have been installed. The consumer shall retain records of installation,
maintenance, testing and repair as required in §
38-4-57 for a period of at least five years. The Director may require the
consumer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the city to assist
in determining whether or not service line protection will be required. All
cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by a Cross-Connection Control
Device Inspector certified by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-54 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms appearing in this Water Code shall be
construed to mean as set forth in this section:
   AGENCY. The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. The backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the
Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises, other than the public water supply system, and includes the water
supplied by the system. These auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor's public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams or process fluids; or used water. These waters may be
polluted or contaminated or objectionable or constitute a water source or
system over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The backflow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other
that the intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in Illinois must meet the standards of the Illinois
Plumbing Code and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   CITY CODE. The City Code of the city of Waterloo, Illinois.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER'S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer's
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a customer's water
system.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross- connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the city.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1015. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check
valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and the flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD means a
hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a backflow device for compliance with requirements of the Plumbing Code.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of the Plumbing Code.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley or
at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge of
pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply systems. PLUMBING
includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a building
drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any building or
buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from the point of
connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private sewage
disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   PLUMBING CODE. The Plumbing Code of the city as adopted in §§
6-2-1 et seq.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is suitable for human consumption in accordance
with the Drinking Water Systems Code (77 Ill. Adm. Code 900).
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S). Any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer's potable water system. This includes but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension;
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes or for fire-fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
uses, and which serve at least 15 service connections, or which regularly serve
at least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either
a “community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves, together with an
automatically operated pressure differential relief valve located between the
two check valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and
at the cessation of normal flow the pressure between these two checks shall be
less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly-closed shut-off valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS. The Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer
Main Construction Code of the city, as set forth in §§
6-4-1 et seq.
   SURVEY. The collection of information pertaining to a customer's piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water system,
and must include the location, type and most recent inspection and testing date
of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within that
customer's piping system. The survey must be in written form, and should not be
an actual plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading materials not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply
system or a consumer's potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer's water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-55 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public water supply system and the consumer's water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Director up to the facility curb
stop. All facilities thereafter are the customer's responsibility and shall be
known as the “customer's water system.”
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source to the consumer's water
system.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-56 CROSS CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable portion
of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better bacteriological
and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis by the Agency.
   (C)   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-57 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
approved Cross-Connection Control Device Inspector for the inspection of the
presence or absence of cross-connections within the consumer's premises, and
testing, repair and maintenance of cross-connection control devices within the
consumer's premises.
   (B)   On request of the Director or his or her authorized representative,
the consumer shall furnish information regarding the piping system or systems
of the customer's water system or water use within said system or within the
customer's premises. The consumer's premises shall be open at all reasonable
times to the Director for the verification of information submitted by the
inspected consumer to the public water supply custodian regarding cross-
connection inspection results.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to arrange
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
public potable water system. All cross-connection control or other plumbing
inspections must be conducted in accordance with ILCS Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the water consumer to prevent backflow
into the public water system by ensuring that:
      (1)   All cross-connections are removed, or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back-siphonage;
      (2)   Cross-connection control devices shall be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions;
      (3)   Cross-connection control devices shall be inspected at the time of
installation and at least annually by a person approved by the Agency as a
Cross Connection Control Device Inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
      (4)   Testing and records.
         (a)   Each device shall be tested at the time of installation and at
least annually or more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer.
         (b)   Records submitted to the community public water supply shall be
available for inspection by Agency personnel in accordance with ILCS Ch. 415,
Act 5, § 4.
         (c)   Each device shall have a tag attached, listing the date of most
recent test, name of CCCDI, and type and date of repairs.
         (d)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
            1.   Date of each test;
            2.   Name and approval number of person performing the test;
            3.   Test results;
            4.   Repairs or servicing required;
            5.   Repairs and date completed; and
            6.   Service performed and date completed.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-58 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code and the Agency's
regulations as set forth in 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an approved
backflow prevention device shall be installed on each service line to a
consumer's water system serving premises where, in the judgment of the
Director, actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer's water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Director and the source is
approved by the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the Director.
      (3)   Premises having internal cross-connections that, in the judgment of
the Director, are not correctable or intricate plumbing arrangements which make
it impractical to determine whether or not cross-connections exist.
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey.
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established.
   (C)   An approved backflow device shall be installed on all connections to
the public water supply as described in the Plumbing Code and the Agency's
regulations 35 Ill. Adm. Code 653. In addition, an approved backflow prevention
device shall be installed on each service line to a consumer's water system,
serving but not necessarily limited to the following types of facilities,
unless the Director determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public
water supply system exists;
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverages processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal-plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car washes;
      (11)   Pesticide, herbicide or extermination plants and trucks;
      (12)   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-59 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
38-4-58 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows:
      (1)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation shall be installed
where the public water supply system may be contaminated with substances that
could cause a severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly shall be installed where the
public water supply system may be contaminated with a substance that could
cause a system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved proper air gap separation or an approved reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention assembly or a double check valve
assembly shall be installed where the public water supply system may be
polluted with substances that could cause a pollution hazard not dangerous to
health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
38-4-58 shall be an approved fixed proper air gap separation or an approved
reduced pressure principle backflow prevention connected to the public water
supply.
   (C)   Where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is used for a
fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow preventers shall be
installed on fire safety systems connected to the public water supply when:
      (1)   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      (2)   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      (3)   Water flows by gravity from a non-potable source, or water can be
pumped into the fire safety system from any other source; or
      (4)   There is a connection whereby another source can be introduced into
the fire safety system.
   (D)   All other fire safety systems connected to the potable water supply
shall be protected by a double check valve assembly on metered service lines,
and a double detector check valve assembly on unmetered service lines.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-60 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention devices or methods required by these rules and
regulations shall be approved by the Research Foundation for Cross- Connection
Control of the University of Southern California, American Water Works
Association, American Society of Sanitary Engineering, or American National
Standards Institute, or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation to be
in compliance with applicable industry specifications.
   (B)   Installation of approved devices shall be made in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions. Maintenance as recommended by the manufacturer of
the device shall be performed. Manufacturer's maintenance manual shall be
available on-site.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-61 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by these regulations are installed to have
inspections, tests, maintenance and repairs made in accordance with the
following schedule, or more often where inspections indicate a need or are
specified in manufacturer's instructions.
      (1)   Fixed proper air gap separations shall be inspected to document
that a proper vertical distance is maintained between the discharge point of
the service line and the flood level rim of the receptacle at the time of
installation and at least annually thereafter. Corrections to improper or
bypassed air gaps shall be made within 24 hours.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested at the
time of installation and at least annually thereafter, and required service
performed within five days.
      (3)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies shall be
tested at the time of installation and at least annually or more frequently if
recommended by the manufacturer, and required service performed within five
days.
   (B)   Testing shall be performed by a person who has been approved by the
Agency as competent to service the device. Proof of approval shall be in
writing.
   (C)   Each device shall have a tag attached, listing the date of most recent
test or visual inspection, name of tester, and type and date of repairs.
   (D)   A maintenance log shall be maintained and shall include:
      (1)   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      (2)   Name and approved number of person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      (3)   Test results;
      (4)   Repairs or servicing required;
      (5)   Repairs and date completed; and
      (6)   Service performed and date completed.
   (E)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer without delay as required by division (A) of this section.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Director.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-62 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low-pressure cut-off
device designed to shut off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the suction side of the pump drops to 20 psi or less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low-
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Director,
at least once a year, that the device is operable.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-63 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   The Director shall deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the
occupants thereof, the water service to any premises wherein any backflow
prevention device required by these regulations is not installed, tested,
maintained and repaired in a manner acceptable to the Director, or if it is
found that the backflow prevention device has been removed or bypassed, or if
an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or if a low-pressure
cut-off required by these regulations is not installed and maintained in
working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Director, and the
required reconnection fee is paid.
   (C)   Neither the city, the Director, or its agents or assigns, shall be
liable to any customers of the city for any injury, damages or lost revenues
which may result from termination of said consumer's water supply in accordance
with the terms of this Water Code, whether or not said termination of the water
supply was with or without notice.
   (D)   The consumer responsible for back-siphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
   (E)   Any person, firm or entity found to be violating any provision of this
Water Code shall be served with written notice stating the notice of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violation.
   (F)   Any person, firm or entity violating any of the provisions of this
water code shall be liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of such violation, whether the same was caused
before or after notice, and shall also be subject to the punishments authorized
for the violation of the city code as amended.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§§ 38-4-64 - 38-4-65 (RESERVED)
DIVISION VI: EXTENSION OF MAINS
§ 38-4-66 WATER EXTENSION POLICY; MAINS.
   (A)   The city shall not be required to extend service to individuals within
the city limits, a distance of more than 100 feet per customer, and only then
when sufficient funds are available in excess of those required for the proper
operation of the system. This policy shall not apply to subdivisions,
subdividers or real estate developers of multiple lots. Extension of mains and
services outside the city limits shall be subject to approval of the Council
and shall also be subject to all of the rules and regulations and provisions as
provided herein or as may be amended.
   (B)   Where individual service is desired and when funds for extensions are
not available and/or when the distance is in excess of 100 feet per customer
noted above, such extension can be made if the applicant will deposit with the
city the estimated cost of making the extension, less the cost of 100 feet when
funds are available, or the entire amount when funds are not available. The
amounts so deposited shall be refunded to such customer or customers at the
rate of $1.00 per 1,000 gallons consumed and paid annually until the total
deposit has been refunded or until eight annual payments have been made,
whichever event occurs first. Such deposit shall be interest free. In the event
that the amount deposited is greater or less than the actual cost of the
extension, such excess or deficiency shall be corrected by the party
responsible therefor prior to initiating water service.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-67 EASEMENTS.
   Applicants for main extensions shall deliver, without cost to the city,
permanent easements or right-of-way when necessary for the installation and
maintenance of the extensions or subsequent additions thereto. The city shall
not be obligated to authorize any construction until all requirements of this
chapter have been met.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-68 SIZE AND TYPE.
   The city reserves the right to determine and specify the diameter and type
of pipe required to provide the service requested, and subject to the
requirements of municipal authorities, its location within or without the
limits of a street. The city further reserves the right to install a main
larger in diameter than the main required to render the service requested, in
which case the city will pay the difference in cost.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-69 TITLE.
   Title to all main extensions installed by or when accepted by the city shall
be vested in the city and owned by the city and the city shall have the right
to further extend any main installed in and to other streets or premises
without repayment or refund to any applicant. However, the city reserves the
right to consider extensions made at the applicant's expense and without
written agreement as to service lines. Upon such lines, the city will set a
meter at the beginning of the extension to measure all water used, and title to
the line beyond the meter will be vested in the customer, who shall be
responsible for maintenance and replacement, when necessary.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-70 MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT.
   The city, at its own expense, shall maintain and, when necessary, replace
the city-owned mains used to supply water to its customers, and if adequate
service requires the reconstruction or replacement of such mains, the mains
shall be reconstructed or replaced by the city at its expense.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001)
§ 38-4-71 WATER AND SEWER INSTALLATION; SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The developer of land and subdivisions inside or outside the corporate
limits of the city served by the sewer or water systems of the city shall, at
the developer’s expense, install all extensions of the water and sewer system
of the city, serving such land and subdivisions in accordance with the
ordinances, codes, rules and regulations of the city. The city requires all new
mains and connections to the 16-inch ductile iron water main from 4217
Coxeyville Road, Columbia, IL to 108 West First Street, Waterloo, IL to be
eight inches or larger, and a tracer wire shall be installed. The city
prohibits any new mains or connections to the 16-inch HDPE water transmission
main from the water treatment plant in Valmeyer, IL to the 500,000 gallon
elevated water tank at the corner of Illinois Avenue & Rau Street, Waterloo,
IL.
   (B)   Prior to allowing or making any extensions, the city must determine in
advance that the size of its present mains, the current load on them, as well
as the treatment and/or supply facilities are adequate. It must further
determine that the extension is a feasible undertaking for the city. Should the
extension require modification of or additions to existing facilities, the city
may require a contribution in aid to construction from the applicant.
   (C)   All water extensions shall be made in accordance with the Subdivision
Code of the city at the developer’s expense. Such extensions shall be conveyed
to the city without obligation on the part of the city to reimburse the
developer for the expense thereof.
(Ord. 1178, passed 3-19-2001; Am. Ord. 1876, passed 5-15-2023)    
Penalty, see § 38-4-63
§ 38-4-72 PAYMENT OF ATTORNEYS' FEES.
   If the city proceeds in any court of record to enforce and/or defend any
provision of §§
38-4-1 through
38-4-71 herein, as from time to time amended, and is successful in either the
enforcement or defense proceedings as referred to herein, the city shall
recover its reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the course of
those proceedings from the person and/or entity who has been found to have
violated any provision of §§
38-4-1 through
38-4-71 herein and/or who has initiated the proceedings.
(Ord. 1380, passed 8-7-2006)
CHAPTER 39: VEHICLES
ARTICLE I: LICENSES
Section
   
39-1-1   Vehicle sticker
§ 39-1-1 VEHICLE STICKER
   Upon application by a resident of the city, the City Clerk shall issue to
such resident, free of charge, a windshield sticker for the purpose of
identifying the resident's vehicle as a vehicle owned by a city resident. The
display of such windshield sticker shall be evidence that the resident is
permitted under city ordinances to discard yard waste at municipal yard waste
sites. The City Clerk may require reasonable proof that the applicant resides
within the city.
(Ord. 1409, passed 12-27-2006)
CHAPTER 40: ZONING CODE
ARTICLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Division I: Administration
   
40-1-1   Title
   
40-1-2   Declaration of intent
   
40-1-3   Agricultural exemption
   
40-1-4   Compliance with the regulations
   
40-1-5   Conflict with other ordinances
   
40-1-6   Relationship to existing ordinances and permits
   
40-1-7   Separability
   
40-1-8   Zoning Administrator
   
40-1-9   Powers and duties
   
40-1-10   Fees
   
40-1-11   Violations and penalty
   
40-1-12   Annexed territory
   
40-1-13   (Reserved)
Division II: Definitions
   
40-1-14   General
   
40-1-15   Definitions
DIVISION I: ADMINISTRATION
§ 40-1-1 TITLE.
   This code shall be known as the Zoning Code, hereinafter referred to as
“this code.”
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-2 DECLARATION OF INTENT.
   It is in intent and purpose of this Code:
   (A)   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   To serve as an implementing tool of comprehensive planning;
   (C)   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
   (D)   To encourage the development and arrangement of land uses and
structures that will yield the greatest social and economic benefits for city
citizens;
   (E)   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property; and
   (F)   To divide the city into zoning districts restricting and regulating
the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of
buildings, structures and land for residential, business, manufacturing and
other specified land uses.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-3 AGRICULTURAL EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this code shall not be exercised so as to impose
regulations or require permits with respect to land used or to be used for
agricultural purposes, or with respect to the erection, maintenance, repair,
alteration, remodeling or extension of buildings or structures used or intended
to be used for agricultural purposes upon such land, except that such buildings
or structures for agricultural purposes shall be required to conform to
building or setback lines. In the event that land ceases to be used solely for
agricultural purposes, then and only then shall the provisions of this code
apply.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-4 COMPLIANCE WITH THE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use of buildings and land. No building, structure, or premises shall
be used or occupied, and no buildings or parts thereof or other structure shall
be erected, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged, or altered,
except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the zoning
district in which it is located and as otherwise regulated.
   (B)   Bulk of buildings. No building, structure or premises shall be
erected, altered or used so as to produce greater heights, smaller yards or
less unoccupied area, and no building shall be occupied by more families and/or
persons than prescribed for such building, structure or premises for the
district in which it is located and as otherwise regulated herein.
   (C)   Open spaces. No yard, court or open space, or part thereof, shall be
included as a part of the yard, court or open space similarly required for any
other building, structure or dwelling.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-5 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   This code shall supersede such other ordinances or parts of other ordinances
of the city in conflict with the provisions of this code, provided that nothing
herein shall in any way excuse or prevent prosecution of any previous or
existing violation of any ordinance superseded hereby.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-6 RELATIONSHIP TO EXISTING ORDINANCES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Existing restrictions. Where this code imposes a greater restriction
upon land, buildings or structures than is imposed or required by existing
provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the provisions of this code
shall govern.
   (B)   Existing permits. This code is not intended to abrogate or annul any
building permits, certificates of occupancy, variances or other lawful permits
issued before the effective date of this code, except as otherwise specifically
provided herein.
   (C)   Completion permitted. Any building or structure for which a building
permit has been issued prior to the date of enactment of this code may be
completed and used in accordance with the plans, specifications, and permits on
which said building permit was granted, provided construction commences within
180 days of passage of this code and is diligently prosecuted to completion.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-7, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-7 SEPARABILITY.
   If any part or provision of this code, or the application thereof to any
person, property, or circumstance is adjudged invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its operation and direction to
the part, provision, section or application directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered, and shall not
affect or impair the integrity or validity of the remainder of this code or the
application thereof to other persons, property or circumstances. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have enacted the remainder of this code
even without such part, provision, section or application.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-8, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-8 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The enforcement of this Zoning Code is hereby vested in the Zoning
Administrator. The Mayor, with the majority consent of the City Council, shall
appoint the Zoning Administrator and any other employees as they deem necessary
to assist in the enforcement of this code.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-9 POWER AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce this zoning code, and in addition
thereto and in furtherance of said authority he or she shall:
   (A)   Examine any application for a building permit, or any other
application pertaining to the use of land, buildings, or structures, and
approve said application for Zoning Code compliance when, in all respects, it
conforms with the provisions of the Zoning Code.
   (B)   Conduct such inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land as
are necessary to determine compliance with the terms of this code.
   (C)   Receive, file and forward for action all applications for special
uses, variations and amendments to this code which may be filed in the zoning
office.
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning code, including
all maps, amendments, special uses and variations.
   (E)   Prepare and submit to the Board of Zoning Appeals all pertinent
documentation required.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-10 FEES.
   A fee for services shall be imposed as listed in Chapter 12. Said fees are
intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the processing/
conducting of such permits or procedures; the fees do not constitute a tax or
other revenue-raising device.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-11 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of
this code shall besubject to the general penalty described in Division IV of
Chapter 1 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If more than one provision is violated, each provision violated shall
be considered a separate misdemeanor, and each shall be liable to maximum
penalties as herein specified. Nothing herein shall limit any other right or
remedy of the county or other person in interest, including the right to obtain
an injunction of any violation from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-3, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1535, passed 10-26-2009)
§ 40-1-12 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   With the advice of the Planning Commission, any territory hereafter can be
annexed to the city as any zoning district, provided that all the established
provisions are met.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-10, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-13 (RESERVED)
DIVISION II: DEFINITIONS
§ 40-1-14 GENERAL.
   In the construction of this code, the rules and definitions contained in
this section shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary; the
word “may” is permissive. The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”,
“piece”, and “parcel”. The phrase “used for” shall include the phrases
“arranged for”, “designed for”, “intended for”, “occupied for”, and “maintained
for”. The word “city” shall refer to, and be interpreted to mean, Waterloo,
Illinois. The following words and terms, whenever they occur in this code,
shall be interpreted as herein defined.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-9, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-1-15 DEFINITIONS.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building or
structure, the use of which is customarily incidental to that of the main use
of the land and is located on the same lot with the main building or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the premises, and does not change the basic character thereof, as
determined by its principal use.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any establishment where, for any form of consideration,
where books, magazines, or other printed matter, or photographs, films,
pictures, video cassettes or other visual representation, or where live
entertainment is provided that is characterized by an emphasis upon the
depiction, description or display of specific sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes. This includes
necessary buildings and structures used for agriculture, including, but not
limited to, farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry and the necessary
accessory uses for parking, treating, or storing the produce; provided,
however, that the operation of any such accessory uses is secondary to that of
the normal agricultural activities. Buildings occupied as residences by those
not engaged in agricultural operations shall not be considered to be used for
agricultural purposes.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.  Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every
liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer,
and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   ALLEY. A public access way which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property and is not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts, or increasing its height, or a change in the exit
facilities, or the moving from one location/position to another, or a change in
the supporting members of a building such as bearing walls, columns, beams or
girders.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the
medical care, observation, and treatment of domestic and farm animals. ANIMAL
HOSPITALS may also include ancillary facilities for animal washing and
grooming, overnight boarding, daily boarding, emergency boarding, and
instruction for the handling and care of animals. Animal hospitals are under
the direction of a full-time veterinarian licensed by the State of Illinois.
   APARTMENT. A suite of rooms or a room in a building arranged and intended
for a place of residence of a single family or a group of individuals living
together as a single housekeeping unit.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A multi-family dwelling used or occupied by four or more
families living independently of each other in dwelling units, such dwelling
units normally being rented or used other than by the day, by the same occupant
for a continuous period, ordinarily of six months or more.
   AREA OF ZONING LOT. The total area within the property lines of a lot,
excluding public streets and alleys.
   ASSISTED LIVING. A building intended for furnishing services for the elderly
or disabled but not providing the same degree of care as a nursing home.
   AUDITORIUM. A room, hall or building made a part of any building or
structure, primarily for the gathering of people as an audience to hear
lectures, plays and other presentations.
   AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA. An open area, other than a street, used
for the display or sale of new or used automobiles or trailers, and where no
repair work is done except for minor incidental repair of automobiles or
trailers to be displayed and sold on the premises.
   AUTOMOBILE PARKING AREA. A lot or part thereof used for the storage or
parking of motor vehicles with or without the payment of rent or charges.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. Any place where two or more motor vehicles, not in
running condition, or parts thereof, are stored in the open and are not being
restored to operation, or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including the commercial
salvaging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
   BANQUET CENTER.  A facility, operated on a profit or nonprofit basis, whose
primary purpose is to be leased on a temporary basis for private receptions,
meetings, banquets, or other similar events. Such facilities may be open to the
general public and may include food preparation facilities and areas for
dancing, dining and other entertainment activities customarily found in
association with banquets or receptions. Off-site catering is permitted.
   BASEMENT. A story having more than one-half its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied residence providing accommodations for
a charge to the public, with no more than five guest rooms for rent, in
operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast and light
snacks/refreshments may be provided to the guests only. Bed and breakfast
establishments shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses or food
service establishments.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service,
or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than upon the premises
where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or, in lieu street or streets, by
public parks, cemeteries, railroad right-of-way, bulkhead lines or shore lines
of waterways, corporate boundary lines of municipalities, or topographical
barriers.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or restaurant where meals are
provided for compensation to three or more persons, but not more than ten
persons, who are not members of the keeper's family, but not open on a daily,
overnight or per-meal basis to transient guests.
   BREW PUB. A person who manufactures beer only at a designated premise for
use and consumption only, who stores alcoholic liquor at the designated
premise, and who is allowed to sell alcoholic liquor and/or food at retail for
the licensed premise, provided that the licensee shall not sell for off-
premises consumption more than 50,000 gallons per year, or as specified by ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.33. A brew pub operator must obtain the appropriate
federal, state and city liquor licenses.
   BUFFER AREA. An area of land, undeveloped except for landscaping, fences or
earth berms, used to protect a use situated on a lot from the effects of the
use on the adjacent lot.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this code have been complied with.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels, property or substances of any kind, but excluding fences.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front wall of the building to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to
the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which the principal use of
the zoning lot is conducted.
   BUSINESS CENTER.
      (1)   A group of commercial or industrial uses on a property having one
owner; or
      (2)   A group of commercial or industrial uses on contiguous properties
platted and recorded as a commercial subdivision.
   CENTERLINE. Either:
      (1)   The centerline of any right-of-way having a uniform width;
      (2)   The original centerline, where an original right-of-way has been
widened irregularly, other than by relocation;
      (3)   The new centerline wherever a road has been relocated;
      (4)   The survey centerline established by the agency having jurisdiction
over the right-of-way, and shown on a recorded plat of the right-of-way, for a
right-of-way established with an irregular width.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons, but who are not provided with board or room nor
kept overnight on the premises.
   CLUB. A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members,
organized for some common purposes and paying regular dues, not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
   CODE.  
Chapter 40 of the Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of Waterloo, as now
and hereafter amended or renumbered.
   COMMISSION, PLANNING. The Planning Commission of the City of Waterloo,
Illinois.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A facility, operated on a profit or nonprofit basis,
utilized by groups of members of the community to meet for social, cultural or
recreational purposes. The facility may be open for the whole community or for
special groups within the community. A church is not considered to be a
COMMUNITY CENTER.
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCES. A community residence is a group home housing eight or
fewer adults with a developmental disability who are unable to live
independently but are capable of community living if provided with an
appropriate level of supervision, assistance and support services.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive developmental plan or any of its
parts, serving as a guide for the development of Waterloo, Illinois.
   CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan showing the lot lines, location and
size of building areas, whether on one lot or multiple lots.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A small retail, quick serve, establishment that stocks a
range of everyday items such as coffee, groceries, snack foods, confectionery,
soft drinks, tobacco products, over-the-counter drugs, toiletries, newspapers,
magazines, and other sundries primarily for home consumption. The store can be
licensed to sell alcohol and/or the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels.
Convenience stores shall be less than 3,000 square feet in floor area, with a
maximum of 35% of the floor area dedicated to the sale of alcohol products. A
convenience store cannot sell anything contrary to federal, state, or local
law.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITY. The City Council of Waterloo, Monroe County, Illinois.
   COVERAGE. That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A structure or building where care, protection and
supervision are provided, on a regular schedule, to at least seven children.
All day care facilities must be licensed by the Illinois Department of Children
and Family Services.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the city within which certain
uniform regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this code.
   DRAINAGEWAY. A watercourse, gully, dry stream, creek, or ditch which carries
storm water runoff, which is subject to flooding or ponding, which is fed by
street or building gutters or by storm water sewers, or which serves the
purpose of draining water from the lands adjacent to such watercourse, gully,
dry stream, creek or ditch.
   DUMP. A lot or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by abandonment,
dumping, burial, burning or any other means, whatever purpose, of garbage,
sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles or parts thereof, or
waste material of any kind.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes.
   DWELLING, CONDOMINIUM. An individually owned unit of real estate in a
building or on land that is owned in common by the owners of the units as
permitted under the Illinois Condominium Property Act, ILCS Ch. 765, Act 605,
§§ 1 et seq.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed or
altered for occupancy by three or more families, each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling exclusively by one family as an independent housekeeping unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached principal building designed for or used as
a dwelling exclusively by two families, each living as an independent
housekeeping unit.
   ENCLOSED BUILDING. A building separated on all sides from adjacent open
space or other buildings by fixed exterior walls or party walls, with openings
only for windows and doors, and covered by a permanent roof.
   ENCROACH. The direction or way not in compliance with applicable provisions
of this code.
   ENLARGE. To expand beyond the existing external dimensions of a building or
structure in a horizontal direction.
   ERECT. As pertaining to this code, the action of building on a previously
vacant lot.
   ESSENTIAL GOVERNMENTAL OR PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. The erection,
construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or municipal
departments of equipment and accessories reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service. They may include underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, water, collection, communications, supply, disposal,
transmission or distribution systems. This includes poles, wire, mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic
signals, hydrants and other similar equipment, but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. Either:
      (1)   A single individual living upon the premises as a separate
housekeeping unit; or
      (2)   A collective body of persons living together upon the premises as a
separate housekeeping unit in a domestic relationship based upon birth,
marriage, or adoption; or
      (3)   A group of not more than three unrelated persons living together on
the premises as a separate housekeeping unit pursuant to a mutual housekeeping
agreement, not including a group occupying a boarding or rooming house, club,
fraternity, or hotel.
   FARM. See “Agriculture” as defined in this section.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The area described by the perimeter of the probable limiting
flood. That portion of a valley which has been covered with water when the
river or stream overflowed its banks at flood stage. The plain in most
instances has been built up by alluvium deposited by the stream.
   FLOOR AREA. The area included within exterior walls of a building, including
habitable penthouses and habitable attic space, but not including vent shafts,
mechanical areas, restrooms or court areas.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The ratio of total floor area, in square feet, of all
buildings on a lot or parcel to total area, in square feet.
   FRONTAGE. Lineal area of direct adjacency.
   GARAGE - PARKING, PRIVATE. A building or portion thereof for the storage of
one or more motor vehicles.
   GARAGE - PARKING, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof used by the public
for the storage or parking of motor vehicles for compensation or otherwise.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or premises or part thereof used for
the retail sale of gasoline, oil or other fuel, automotive parts, supplies, or
accessories for motor vehicles which may include, as an incidental use only,
facilities used for polishing, greasing, washing or otherwise cleaning or light
servicing of motor vehicles, but not including liquefied petroleum gas
distribution facilities.
   HIGHWAY, FEDERAL. A route selected by the state or local government and
approved by the federal government, for which federal funds can be spent.
   HIGHWAY, STATE. All rural highways, together with their municipal
extensions, designated by a state highway route number.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A domestic activity carried on by no more than two
individuals, one of whom is an occupant of the dwelling, but excluding music
schools, convalescent or nursing homes, tourist homes, or other establishment
offering services to the general public; providing, also, that there is no
stock-in-trade or commodity sold upon the premises. The only sign permitted
shall be an identification sign of not more than one square foot that is
attached to the residence.
   HOSPITAL. Any building or portion thereof used for diagnosis, treatment and
care of human ailments, including sanitariums, but not including clinics, rest
homes, convalescent homes or nursing homes.
   HOTEL. A building designed or used for occupancy normally as the temporary
lodging place of individuals, having at least six guest rooms, where a general
kitchen and dining room may be provided, but where there are no cooking
facilities in any guest room.
   IMPROVED LIVABILITY. The enclosure or improving of an existing structure by
adding construction materials, such as, but not limited to plywood, siding,
soffits, bricks, air vents or windows.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A planned, coordinated development of a tract of land with
two or more separate industrial buildings. Such development is planned,
designed, constructed and managed on an integrated and coordinated basis, with
special attention given to on-site vehicular circulation, parking, utility
needs, building design and orientation, and open space.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where scrap metal, paper, rags, or similar materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including auto and building salvage yards. See also “Automobile Wrecking Yard”
as defined in this section.
   KENNEL. Any structure or lot on which four or more dogs and/or cats over
four months of age are kept.
   LAND USE PLAN. The long-range plan for the desirable use of land within the
city. See also “Comprehensive Plan” as defined in this section.
   LAUNDRIES. Shall include:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRY. A business that provides washing,
drying and ironing services operated by the employees on the premises.
      (2)   LAUNDROMAT. A business that provides home-type washing, drying and
ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
   LIVING AREA. For single-family dwellings, the sum of the areas of the floor
(s) of a building used for human occupancy as measured from the exterior walls.
For apartments, living space shall be determined by measuring the interior
partition wall to exterior wall of each unit. Living area does not include
cellars, attics, porches, garages, homes or basements with more than one-half
of their height below the average adjoining grade.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building with more than three guest spaces where
lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement, but not
open on a daily, overnight, or per-meal basis to transient guests.
   LOT. A single parcel or tract of land.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersections
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point of the
intersection of the street is the corner. Both abutting yard setbacks resulting
from a corner lot shall comply with front yard requirements of the district in
which it is located.
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of a zoning lot occupied by the principal
building or buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines measured in the general direction of side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot whose sidelines do not abut upon a street.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The line separating the lot from the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than front or rear line. A SIDE LOT LINE
separating a lot from a street is called a STREET SIDE LOT LINE. A SIDE LOT
LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is called an INTERIOR SIDE LOT
LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot, established either by a legally recorded subdivision
plat, by a legally recorded instrument of conveyance containing a metes-and-
bounds description, or in any other legal manner.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of the lot measured at right to the
general direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT, ZONING. A parcel of land, composed of one or more recorded lots,
occupied or to be occupied by a principal building or principal use, along with
permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all the requirements for area,
buildable area, frontage, yards, setbacks, and any other requirement as set
forth in this code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory- fabricated, single-family home originally
constructed on a permanent chassis consisting of a wheel assembly,
undercarriage and towing hitch assembly.
   MODULAR BUILDING. A factory-fabricated building originally constructed on a
permanent chassis, consisting of a wheel assembly, undercarriage, and towing
hitch assembly, for uses other than as a dwelling.
   MODULAR HOME. A factory-fabricated single-family home built in one or more
sections. The average width and/or length of the living area (excluding
garages, carports, porches, or attachments) of a modular home shall not exceed
a ratio of 3 to 1. All modular homes must be placed on a full perimeter
permanent foundation, extending below the frost depth. As with all residences,
a modular home must have a minimum 3/12 pitch roof with residential style
siding and roofing, six inches minimum eave overhang, and must have a minimum
living area of not less than 1,000 square feet. Modular homes must meet either
the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code) or
the adopted City of Waterloo Building Code.
   MOTEL or MOTOR HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-attached or detached
sleeping or living units, for the accommodation of transient guests, and not
customarily including individual cooking or kitchen facilities, said units
having convenient access to off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of
the guest occupants.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or structure or portion thereof
conflicting with the provisions of this code, applicable to the district in
which it is situated.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land legally existing at the time
of adoption of this code or any amendment thereto, and which does not conform
with the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSERY SCHOOL/DAY CARE HOME. A school designed to provide daytime care or
instruction for not more than six children from two to five years of age,
inclusive.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL. An office (other than a service office and other than
an office for care and/or treatment of, or medical attention to, animals as
distinguished from persons) for the practice of professions, such as the
offices of urban planners, physicians, dentists, attorneys-at-law, architects,
engineers, artists, musicians, teachers, accountants and others who, through
training, are qualified to perform services of a professional nature, or the
offices of a governmental agency, and where there is no storage, sale or
display of merchandise on the premises.
   OFFICE, SERVICE. An office in which are offered services by real estate
agents, insurance agents, public stenographers, brokers, or others who, through
training, are duly qualified to perform services of an executive nature (as
distinguished from a professional office) and where there is no storage, sale
or display of merchandise on the premises.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
other public way, designed, arranged, and made available for the storage of
private passenger automobiles only, for occupants of the building or buildings
for which the parking area is developed and is necessary.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC. An open, hard-surfaced area, other than a street or
other public way, used for the parking of automobiles or other motor vehicles,
and available to the public, whether for a fee or as an accommodation for
clients or customers.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a public or private parking area for
the storage of a passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one and one-
half-ton capacity.
   PLACE. An open, unoccupied space, other than a street or alley, permanently
reserved as the principal means of access to abutting property.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A commercial or industrial development on a parcel
of land in single ownership and consisting of two or more buildings having any
yard, court, parking or loading space in common.
   PREMISES. A lot together with all the buildings and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Any publicly-owned open area, including, but not limited
to the following: parks, playgrounds, forest preserves, beaches, waterways,
parkways, and streets.
   PUBLIC SEWER FACILITY. The county, state, federal, municipal, district, or
privately-owned public sewer facilities which comply with applicable public
health standards.
   PUBLIC WATER FACILITY. The county, state, federal, municipal, district, or
privately-owned public water facilities which comply with applicable public
health standards.
   RECOVERY RESIDENCE. A non-profit facility that offers a sober, safe, and
healthy living environment that promotes recovery from problems associated with
alcohol and other drug use. Clients must be voluntary (not required as a part
of a prison sentence) and only permitted to leave the residence under the
direct supervision of employees. The facility must have employees on the
premises 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The minimum planned program stay
shall be 60 days, and the maximum planned program stay shall be 90 days.
Locations shall not exceed 24 residents at any given time. Visitors shall be
limited to one visit per resident per week to minimize traffic effects on the
area. The residence shall also meet the standards set for by the NARR and be
certified by the IAEC within 12 months.
   RESIDENCE. A site-constructed building designed for use as a residence.
   RESIDENTIALLY-RELATED VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle, including watercraft,
designed for use and actually used by one or more of the owners of the real
property on which the vehicle or watercraft is stored or parked for private,
noncommercial use. In no event shall the definition of RESIDENTIALLY- RELATED
VEHICLE include a truck, tractor or other motor vehicle with a gross weight in
excess of 7,500 pounds.
   RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods and services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
   ROOM. An unsubdivided portion of the interior of a dwelling unit, excluding
closets, hallways, service porches and other similar areas.
   SETBACK, FRONT. The required distance as measured from the centerline of the
street to the building wall.
   SETBACK, REAR/SIDE. The distance in linear feet measured on a horizontal
plane from the lot line to the foundation of a building or structure on the lot
and perpendicularly to the lot line.
   SIGN. Any inscription written, printed, painted, or otherwise placed on a
board, plate, banner or upon any material, object or device whatsoever, which
by reason of its form, color, wording or otherwise, attracts or is designed to
attract attention to the subject thereof, or is used as a means of
identification, advertisement, or announcement. As used in this code, the term
shall apply only to on-premises signs which attract attention to the sign from
outside of a building or structure.
   SIGN AREA. The total surface area of the entire sign, including all parts
and appurtenances thereof, except the principal supports thereof, provided,
however, that such principal supports do not have a surface area of more than
25% of the surface area of the sign as otherwise measured.
   SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. As used in this code, a sign used for purposes of
notification of the public of an event or other occurrence of public interest,
such as church service, political rally, civic meeting or similar event.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which gives only basic information concerning the
existence of a commercial enterprise, service, or other activity conducted,
sold or offered on the premises upon which the sign is erected and attached to
the building.
   SIGN, BUSINESS CENTER. A freestanding sign identifying commercial or
industrial uses offered and located within the boundaries of a business center.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. As used in this code, a sign advertising the development
or improvement of a property by a builder, contractor or other person
furnishing services, materials, or labor to said premises, which sign is
intended for a limited period of display, and erected on the same lot with the
work being done.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign, such as name plate, stating the name of a
person occupying the premises, and his or her business or professional title.
As used in this code, the term IDENTIFICATION SIGN shall not be construed to
include a sign identifying a commercial or industrial use or a commodity or
service offered on the premises.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A detached sign which is permanently supported by one or
more uprights, poles or braces in the ground.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A display sign which is attached to or suspended from a
marquee, canopy, or other covered structure projecting from and supported by
the building and extending beyond the building wall or building line.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A low-profile, freestanding sign limited to a maximum height
of six feet.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A display sign which is attached directly to the wall of a
building and which extends more than 12 inches from the face of the wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign indicating the availability for sale, rent or
lease of the specific lot and/or building upon which the sign is erected or
displayed.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet wall of a
building or structure.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION. A sign advertising the general development, sale and/or
subdivision of land, and displayed or erected upon the subject property, as
distinguished from a real estate sign.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign, banner or other advertising device or display, with
or without a structural frame, used for a temporary period of display, such as
decorative displays for holidays or announcements of grand openings or similar
events, but not for advertising routine events, such as sale prices and weekend
specials.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign painted on, attached to, or erected against the wall of
a building or structure, with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel
to the plane of said wall and extending not more than 24 inches from the face
of the wall.
   SITE COVERAGE. The percentage of a lot that is covered by a structure or
structures. Driveways, patios, parking lots, and other non-structures are not
used to determine site coverage.
   SKILLED NURSING FACILITY. An inpatient healthcare facility with the staff
and equipment to provide skilled care, rehabilitation and other related health
services to patients who need nursing care, but do not require hospitalization.
   SPECIAL USE. A permitted use in a designated district(s), but subject to
additional requirements because of its unique nature.
   SPIRITS PUB. A person who manufactures spirits only at a designated premise
for use and consumption only, who stores alcoholic liquor at the designated
premise, and who is allowed to sell alcoholic liquor and/or food at retail for
the licensed premise, provided that the licensee shall not sell for off-
premises consumption more than 50,000 gallons per year, or as specified by ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.33. A spirits pub operator must obtain the appropriate
federal, state and city liquor licenses.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action used by the Zoning Administrator to
halt work in progress that is in violation of this code.
   STORY. That portion of a building, included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above it,
then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public or private way which affords the principal means of access
to abutting properties.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street which provides for the movement of traffic
through and around the region by carrying large volumes of local and commuter
traffic and is so designated by the City Council by resolution.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which provides vehicular movement between
arterial, local streets and local traffic generators and is so designated by
the City Council by resolution.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street whose primary purpose is access to abutting lots and
is so designated by the City Council by resolution.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined
together in some definite manner.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. An automobile trailer, camper, or similar vehicle or device
designed and constructed to permit temporary occupancy as sleeping and living
quarters.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. Any park, court, camp, or site of land designed,
maintained, or intended for the purpose of providing a temporary location or
accommodations for any travel trailers or similar devices, upon which any
travel trailers or similar devices are parked or located, including all
buildings used or intended for use as a part of the equipment or accessories
thereof, whether or not the same or any part is held or operated for gain,
excepting, however, automobile or travel trailer sales lots on which unoccupied
units are parked for inspection and sale.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is designed,
arranged, intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained. The
term “permitted use” or its equivalent is not deemed to include any
nonconforming use.
   VARIANCE. A permit granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, varying specific
area/ bulk regulations, due to unusual circumstances.
   WINE PUB. A person who manufactures wine only at a designated premise for
use and consumption only, who stores alcoholic liquor at the designated
premise, and who is allowed to sell alcoholic liquor and/or food at retail for
the licensed premise, provided that the licensee shall not sell for off-
premises consumption more than 50,000 gallons per year, or as specified by ILCS
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.33. A wine pub operator must obtain the appropriate
federal, state and city liquor licenses.
   YARD. An open space not occupied or obstructed by any structure or portion
of a structure, except fences, driveways and porches.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
front lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest line or point of the principal building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the side lot line and the nearest line or point of the building.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person, designated by the Mayor and City Council,
charged with the responsibility of administrating these standards.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. A document issued by the Zoning Administrator,
authorizing building, structures or uses consistent with the terms of this code
and for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions.
   ZONE DISTRICT MAP. The zoning map of the city, together with all amendments
subsequently adopted.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-1-9, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 4-6-2009; Am.
Ord. 1570, passed 2-7-2011; Am. Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1627,
passed 4-1-2013; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 11-17-2014; Am. Ord. 1677, passed 2-23-
2015; Am. Ord. 1722, passed 4-3-2017; Am. Ord. 1824, passed 6-7-2021; Am. Ord.
1849, passed 5-2-2022; Am. Ord. 1850, passed 5-2-2022; Am. Ord. 1851, passed 6-
6-2022)
ARTICLE II: GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
   
40-2-1   Zoning districts: intent and purpose
   
40-2-2   Zoning district expansion
   
40-2-3   Zone district schedules
   
40-2-4   Zone district map
   
40-2-5   Zone district boundaries
   
40-2-6   Agricultural District A-1
   
40-2-7   Flood Plain District F-1
   
40-2-8   Single-Family Residence Districts R-1 to R-3
   
40-2-9   Two-family and Multiple-Family Residence Districts R-4 and R-5
   
40-2-10   Condominium Residence District R-6, as permitted under the Illinois
Condominium Property Act
   
40-2-11   Office Business District B-1
   
40-2-12   General Business District B-2
   
40-2-13   Central Business District B-3
   
40-2-14   Light Industrial District I-1
   
40-2-15   General Industrial District I-2
   
40-2-16   Industrial; conditions of use
   
Appendix:   Zone District Schedules
§ 40-2-1 ZONING DISTRICTS: INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of this code, the entire City of Waterloo is hereby divided
into the following zoning districts:
 Minimum Size in Acres
                                                       Minimum Size in Acres
Agricultural District                                  None
Residential Districts:
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District                       15
R-2 One-Family Dwelling District                       10
R-3 One-Family Dwelling District                       5
R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District                       5
R-5 Multiple-Family Dwelling District                  5
R-6 Condominium Residence as permitted by the Illinois 5
Condominium Property Act
Business Districts:
B-1 Office Business District                           N/A
B-2 General Business District                          N/A
B-3 Central Business District                          N/A
I-1 Light Industrial District                          10
I-2 General Industrial District                        20
Special Districts:
F-1 Flood Plain District                               None
 
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-1, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40-2-2 ZONING DISTRICT EXPANSION.
   An existing zoning district may be changed by expansion of said district
into contiguous districts, and said change need not be required to meet a
minimum district size.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-3 ZONE DISTRICT SCHEDULES.
   To increase the convenience of use of this code, schedules have been created
to place as many regulations as possible on one page. These schedules are: Area
and Bulk Regulations, §
40-2-3(A); Permitted Uses, §
40-2-3(B); and Planned Unit Development, §
40-2-3(C). These schedules may be found in
Appendix A at the end of this Article II.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-3, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 12-7-1998; Am.
Ord. 1097, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 1129, passed 2-7-2000; Am. Ord. 1153,
passed 8-21-2000; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 10-16-2000; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-
2001; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 9-17-2001; Am. Ord. 1266, passed 8-4-2003; Am. Ord.
1287, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 1323, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 1354, passed
11-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1424, passed 2-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 11-5-2007;
Am. Ord. 1456, passed 11-5-2007; Am. Ord. 1457, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord.
1458, passed 11-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-7-2008; Am. Ord. 1483, passed
7-7-2008; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-21-2010; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 9-7-2010; Am.
Ord. 1570, passed 2-7-2011; Am. Ord. 1591, passed 1-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1621,
passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1627, passed 4-1-2013; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-17-
2014; Am. Ord. 1662, passed 4-21-2014; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 11-17-2014; Am.
Ord. 1677, passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. 1712, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1757,
passed 5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 1758, passed 6-4-2018; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 9-4-
2018; Am. Ord. 1781, passed 5-6-2019; Am. Ord. 1824, passed 6-7-2021; Am. Ord.
1868, passed 1-3-2023; Am. Ord. 1869, passed 1-3-2023)
§ 40-2-4 ZONE DISTRICT MAP.
   The boundaries of the zones provided in §
40-2-1 are established as shown on the Waterloo Zone District Map. The zoning
districts and boundaries are hereby adopted and established as shown on the
zone district map, together with all notations, references, data, district
boundaries and other information thereof, and are made a part of the zoning
code by reference. The zoning map properly attested shall remain on file in the
office of the Zoning Administrator or other appropriate city official.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-5 ZONE DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are approximately
parallel to the centerline of streets, the centerline of alleys, or the
centerline of highways, district boundaries shall be construed as being the
centerline of that street, alley or highway.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where the boundary of a district follows a railroad line, such
boundary shall be deemed to be located at the railroad right-of-way line.
   (D)   Where the boundary of a district follows a stream, lake or other body
of water, said boundary line shall be construed to be the centerline of the
stream; otherwise, at the limit of the jurisdiction of the county unless
otherwise indicated.
   (E)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
section lines, quarter section lines, quarter-quarter section lines or survey
and claim lines, such lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (F)   Any area shown on the zoning map as park, playground, school,
cemetery, water, street, or right-of-way shall be subject to the zoning
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated in the
manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall automatically extend to the center of such
vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall thereafter be subject to
all regulations of the extended districts.
   (H)   Where any land or territory within the jurisdiction of the city is not
shown to be located in a district, the zoning regulations of the most
restrictive adjoining district shall govern.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-6 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT A-1.
   The Agricultural District encompasses areas where soil, water, vegetal, and
topographical resources generally provide conditions well suited to raising of
crops and domestic animals. The district is designed to discourage the
intrusion of non-agricultural land uses.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-6, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-7 FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT F-1.
   The Flood Plain District(s) encompasses areas which are subject to flooding
and pose immediate or potential threats to life and property. This area should
be restricted for all but agricultural, park, open space and other similar
uses.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-7, passed 7-20-1998)
Cross-reference:
   See Floodplain Code,
Ch. 14
§ 40-2-8 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS R-1 TO R-3.
   The Single-Family Residence Districts, as differentiated herein, and the
district locations as depicted on the Zone District Map, reflect the wide
variety of physical and social characteristics found in Waterloo, to the extent
that the range of such conditions and characteristics can be divided into
meaningful categories. It is the purpose of these regulations to encourage the
creation and maintenance of stable and enduring residential areas by
establishing limitations on the use and character of development so as to take
advantage of, or to avoid conflict with, natural topography, existing
development, arrangements and locations of existing or planned community
facilities and social needs of the city.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-8, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-9 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS R-4 AND R-5.
   (A)   The Multiple Family Residence Districts, as differentiated herein, and
the district locations as shown on the Zone District Map, reflect the wide
variety of physical and social characteristics found in Waterloo, to the extent
that the range of conditions and characteristics can be divided into meaningful
categories. It is the purpose of these regulations to encourage the creation
and maintenance of the stable and enduring multiple residence districts by
establishing limitations on the use and character of development of land so as
to take advantage of, or to avoid conflicts with, natural topography, existing
development, arrangement and location of existing planned community facilities
and the social needs of the community. These districts may also be utilized for
the appropriate re-use of redevelopment of areas where obsolescence and socio-
economic demands would suggest higher densities as necessary to encourage the
re-use of such areas.
   (B)   All lots in R-4 and R-5 shall be regulated to the provisions of §
40-2-11(D), Refuse Containers.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-10, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-10 CONDOMINIUM RESIDENCE DISTRICT R-6, AS PERMITTED UNDER THE ILLINOIS
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY ACT.
   The Condominium Residence District, as differentiated herein, and the
district locations as depicted on the Zone District Map reflect the wide
variety of physical and social characteristics found in Waterloo, to the extent
that the range of such conditions and characteristics can be divided into
meaningful categories. It is the purpose of these regulations to encourage the
creation and maintenance of stable and enduring residential areas by
establishing limitations on the use and character of development so as to take
advantage of, or to avoid conflict with, natural topography, existing
development, arrangements and locations of existing or planned community
facilities and social needs of the city.
(Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40-2-11 OFFICE BUSINESS DISTRICT B-1.
   (A)   The Office Business District is intended to provide for non-retail
office facilities. The district is limited in size and facilities to preserve
and protect the general character of the areas surrounding these particular
districts.
   (B)   Design standards. The lot on which the office unit is situated shall
be landscaped and maintained in conformity with the general character of the
surrounding area.
   (C)   Accessways. Any accessway to any off- street parking lot or loading
berth shall be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
   (D)   Refuse containers. All garbage or other refuse shall be in removable
covered containers not less than three cubic yards in size. Refuse containers
shall not be located in any required front or side yard setback area. Said
containers shall be enclosed by either fencing of six feet in height or
applicable screening.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-11, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-12 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT B-2.
   (A)   The General Business District is intended to provide for the
establishment of certain highway- oriented commercial activities. Such areas
must be carefully located so as not to unduly constrict, impede or reduce the
normal flow of traffic and to provide for reasonably safe access and egress
from adjacent highways.
   (B)   Accessways. Any accessway to any off- street parking lot or loading
berth shall be located at least ten feet from any lot line.
   (C)   Refuse containers. All garbage or other refuse shall be in removable
covered containers not less than three cubic yards in size. Refuse containers
shall not be located in any required front or side yard setback area. Said
containers shall be enclosed by either fencing of six feet in height or
applicable screening.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-12, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-13 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT B-3.
   The Central Business District is intended to provide for areas in which
pedestrian-oriented comparative shopping facilities for retail sales and
services would be encouraged and inappropriate or incompatible uses would be
prohibited. Refuse containers shall not be located in any required front or
side yard setback area. Said containers shall be enclosed by either fencing of
six feet in height or applicable screening.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-13, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-14 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT I-1.
   The Light Industrial District encompasses areas where a satisfactory
correlation of factors such as adequate transportation facilities,
accessibility for employees, efficient land assembly, adequate topographical
conditions, and adequate provisions of public utilities required by industry
may be achieved. It is intended that this particular district will generally
provide for industrial development of an assembly nature, research and
development, or manufacture and fabrication of any commodity from semi-finished
or finished materials, and offers appropriate locations for supportive service
commercial facilities together with other correlated land uses. Such supportive
services are generally of a non-retail or personal service character and
primarily offer commercial facilities and personal services requiring extensive
sites. Open storage of equipment and supplies should be encouraged to locate in
this district.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-14, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-15 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT I-2.
   The General Industrial District(s) encompasses areas where there is a
satisfactory correlation of factors such as adequate transportation facilities,
accessibility for employees, efficient land assembly, adequate topographical
conditions, and where the adequate provision of public utilities and power
facilities required by industry may be achieved. It is intended that this
district will provide for any type of manufacturing that is or is not permitted
in the I-1 Light Industrial District and that meets the requirements and
conditions of this code and all related laws and regulations.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-15, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-2-16 INDUSTRIAL; CONDITIONS OF USE.
   Uses in Industrial Districts shall be subject to the following (See
Appendix A for permitted uses):
   (A)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, or
storage of goods, materials, or products shall take place without creating
disturbing influences to the use and occupancy of adjoining properties.
   (B)   All business, production, servicing, and processing shall take place
within completely enclosed buildings unless otherwise specified. Within 150
feet of the nearest point of any residential district, all storage shall be in
completely enclosed buildings or structures, and storage located elsewhere in
this district may be open to the sky, but shall be enclosed by solid wall or
fence, including solid doors or gates thereto, at least eight feet high, but in
no case lower than the enclosed storage. However, open, off-street loading
facilities and open, off- street parking facilities for the storage of motor
vehicles may be unenclosed throughout the district, except for such screening
of parking and loading facilities as may be required.
   (C)   Yards adjacent to residential districts. All buildings and structures
on lots adjacent to residential districts shall be located so as to provide
side yard widths or rear yard depths of at least 200 feet adjacent to such
residential districts.
   (D)   Railroad siding frontage. No yards shall be required for those
portions of lots which front on railroad sidings.
   (E)   Parking and loading. See §§
40-6-1 to
40-6-20.
   (F)   Buffer areas. A 20-foot wide planting screen, consisting of suitable
shrubbery and trees, shall be planted and maintained wherever the industrial
use abuts any other use district. Such screen shall consist of shrubbery and
trees at least five feet in height when planted, and shall be maintained at not
less than 18 feet in height when full grown.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-16, passed 7-20-1998)
APPENDIX A: ZONE DISTRICT SCHEDULES
40-2-3(A) AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS
Zone Districts Minimum Lot Size Minimum Front Yard Setbacks Required from the
                                Centerline
Zone Districts        Minimum Lot Size              Minimum Front Yard Setbacks Required from
                                                    the Centerline
1            2        3        4      5      6      7      8         9        10       11
                                      Width
             Min.     Max. No. Min.   at     Mean                                      State
             District of       Area   Bldg.  Depth  Local  Collector Arterial County   and
             size in  Dwelling in Sq. Line   in     Street Streets   Streets  Highways Federal
             Acres    Units    Ft.    in     Linear                                    Highways
                      per Lot         Linear Feet
                                      Feet
1. A-                 1 per 5  5      300    300
1            N/A      acres    Acres  ft.    ft.    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Agricultural
2. R-                 1 per    18,000
1 Single-    15       18,000   sq.    100    125    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Family                sq. ft.  ft.    ft.    ft.
Residence
3. R-                 1 per    14,000
2 Single-    10       14,000   sq.    80 ft. 100    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Family                sq. ft.  ft.           ft.
Residence
4. R-                 1 per    10,500
3 Single-    5        10,500   sq.    80 ft. 100    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Family                sq. ft.  ft.           ft.
Residence
5. R-4 Two-           1 per    10,500        100
Family       5        5,250    sq.    80 ft. ft.    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Residence             sq. ft.  ft.
6. R-                 1 per    13,500
5 Multi-     5        4,500    sq.    65 ft. 100    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Family                sq. ft.  ft.           ft.
Residence
7. R-                 1 per    13,500
6            5        4,500    sq.    65 ft. 100    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Condominium           sq. ft.  ft.           ft.
Residence
8. B-                 See Use  10,000 100    100
1 Office     N/A      Schedule sq.    ft.    ft.    50 ft. 63 ft.    75 ft.   65 ft.   75 ft.
Business                       ft.
9. B-                 See Use  15,000 100    150
2 General    N/A      Schedule sq.    ft.    ft.    75 ft. 113 ft.   125 ft.  115 ft.  125 ft.
Business                       ft.
10. B-                See Use
3 Central    N/A      Schedule N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A    N/A       N/A      N/A      N/A
Business
11. I-                                              100
1 Light      10       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    ft.    113 ft.   125 ft.  115 ft.  125 ft.
Industrial
12. I-                                              100
2 General    20       N/A      N/A    N/A    N/A    ft.    113 ft.   125 ft.  115 ft.  125 ft.
Industrial
 
Zone      Minimum Yard Dimensions          Building Height    Accessory Building and Uses
Districts                                  and Coverage       If Detached Minimum Distance To:
1         12       13       14       15    16       17        18      19        20         21       22      23
                   Depth of
          Min.     Side     Min.                                                           Side Lot
          Depth of Yard     Distance Depth          Max. Hgt. Max.    Principal Centerline Adjacent Side    Rear
          Side     Abutting to       of    Max.% of of        Hgt.    Bldg.     of Street  to       Lot     Lot
          Yard     a Lot in Nearest  Rear  Site     Principal (Linear (Linear   (Linear    Street   Line    Line
          Abutting Feet;    Bldg. on Yard  Coverage Bldg.     Feet)   Feet)     Feet)      (Linear  (Linear (Linear
          Street   Min. for Adjacent                                                       Feet)    Feet)   Feet)
                   Either   Lot
                   Side
Zone         Minimum Yard Dimensions            Building Height    Accessory Building and Uses
Districts                                       and Coverage       If Detached Minimum Distance To:
1            12       13         14       15    16       17        18      19        20         21       22      23
             Min.     Depth of   Min.                                                           Side Lot
             Depth of Side Yard  Distance Depth          Max. Hgt. Max.    Principal Centerline Adjacent Side    Rear
             Side     Abutting a to       of    Max.% of of        Hgt.    Bldg.     of Street  to       Lot     Lot
             Yard     Lot in     Nearest  Rear  Site     Principal (Linear (Linear   (Linear    Street   Line    Line
             Abutting Feet; Min. Bldg. on Yard  Coverage Bldg.     Feet)   Feet)     Feet)      (Linear  (Linear (Linear
             Street   for Either Adjacent                                                       Feet)    Feet)   Feet)
                      Side       Lot
1. A-                                     30
1            25 ft.   20 ft.     40 ft.   ft.   5%       35 ft.    25 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   20 ft.  10 ft.
Agricultural
2. R-
1 Single-    25 ft.   15 ft.     30 ft.   30    50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   15 ft.  6 ft.
Family                                    ft.
Residence
3. R-
2 Single-    25 ft.   10 ft.     20 ft.   30    50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   10 ft.  6 ft.
Family                                    ft.
Residence
4. R-
3 Single-    25 ft.   7.5 ft.    15 ft.   25    50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   4 ft.   6 ft.
Family                                    ft.
Residence
5. R-4 Two-                               30
Family       25 ft.   10 ft.     20 ft.   ft.   50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   4 ft.   6 ft.
Residence
                      10 ft.*
                      * Zero lot
                      line for
6. R-                 ROW
5 Multi-     25 ft.   dwellings; 20 ft.   30    50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   10 ft.  6 ft.
Family                however,            ft.
Residence             10 ft.
                      from bldg.
                      end to lot
                      line
7. R-
6 Condo-     25 ft.   7.5 ft.    15 ft.   30    50%      35 ft.    20 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   10 ft.  6 ft.
minium                                    ft.
Residence
8. B-                                     25
1 Office     25 ft.   10 ft.     20 ft.   ft.   50%      35 ft.    15 ft.  10 ft.    85 ft.     25 ft.   10 ft.  10 ft.
Business
9. B-                                     25
2 General    75 ft.   10 ft.     20 ft.   ft.   50%      35 ft.    15 ft.  12 ft.    100 ft.    25 ft.   10 ft.  10 ft.
Business
 
 
Zone       Minimum Yard Dimensions           Building Height    Accessory Building and Uses
Districts                                    and Coverage       If Detached Minimum Distance To:
1          12       13        14       15    16       17        18      19        20         21       22      23
                    Depth of  Min.
           Min.     Side Yard Distance                                                       Side Lot Side    Rear
           Depth of Abutting  to       Depth Max.% of Max. Hgt. Max.    Principal Centerline Adjacent Lot     Lot
           Side     a Lot in  Nearest  of    Site     of        Hgt.    Bldg.     of Street  to       Line    Line
           Yard     Feet;     Bldg. on Rear  Coverage Principal (Linear (Linear   (Linear    Street   (Linear (Linear
           Abutting Min. for  Adjacent Yard           Bldg.     Feet)   Feet)     Feet)      (Linear  Feet)   Feet)
           Street   Either    Lot                                                            Feet)
                    Side
                    None
                    required,
                    but
10. B-              abutting                                                                          Same as
3 Central  N/A      an R      N/A      20    80%      N/A       N/A     12 ft.    N/A        N/A      Column  20 ft.
Business            district,          ft.                                                            13
                    a side
                    yard of
                    15 ft.
                    required
11. I-                                 20
1 Light    100 ft.  25 ft.    50 ft.   ft.   50%      N/A       N/A     12 ft.    100 ft.    25 ft.   N/A     20 ft.
Industrial
12. I-                                 50
2 General  100 ft.  50 ft.    100 ft.  ft.   50%      N/A       N/A     12 ft.    100 ft.    25 ft.   N/A     20 ft.
Industrial
 
§ 40-2-3(B): GENERAL ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS PERMITTED USES, ACCESSORY USES
AND SPECIAL USES
A
Agricultural
Permitted Uses.
All uses commonly classified as agricultural, horticulture or forestry,
including crop and tree farming, truck farming, gardening, nursery operation,
dairy farming, livestock raising, animal and poultry breeding, raising and
feeding, forestry operations together with the operation of machinery or
vehicles.
Animal hospitals, provided that all animals are kept in a completely enclosed
sound-proofed building, and further provided that adequate safeguards
(structural, mechanical and locational) shall be provided to protect adjacent
properties from the effects of noisome or injurious substances, conditions and
operations.
Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith.
Fishing lakes or clubs, provided that no building, parking lot, or other
intense use activity is located nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling on another
zoning lot.
Golf courses.
Living quarters for persons employed in agricultural or related activities that
are conducted on the premises.
Noncommercial recreational activities.
One-family residence.
Private clubs, lodges or camps, except those whose chief activities are a
service customarily carried on as a business.
Public service uses, including filtration plants, pump stations, water
reservoirs, sewage treatment plants, police and fire stations or other
governmental uses.
Railroad right-of-way and trackage, but not including classification yards,
terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
Temporary produce stands for the sale of agricultural produce raised on the
premises, provided that adequate off-street parking is available and that major
traffic congestion or hazards would not be created in conjunction with the
location or access thereto.
Utilities:
   Electrical substation, gas regulator stations.
   Other public utility distribution facilities.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
Any accessory use permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District, unless
otherwise specified as a principal use.
Accessory uses that are clearly supplementary and secondary to the primary use
located on the lot.
Special Use Permits Required.
Agricultural-related uses.
Airports.
Animal sewage lagoon.
Bed and breakfast.
Carnivals, circuses, and similar temporary transient amusement enterprises.
Churches and other places of worship, but not including funeral chapels or
mortuary chapels.
Communications tower.
Convalescent or nursing homes.
Explosive uses of any kind.
Golf courses of regulation size but not including Par 3 golf courses, or
commercially-operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses; and provided
that no clubhouse, parking lot or accessory building shall be located nearer
than 500 feet to any dwelling unit or another zoning lot.
Governmental facilities and uses.
Gun clubs, if properly protected and located not nearer than 1,000 feet to any
residence other than that of the owner or lessee on the site.
Home occupations.
Hospitals, clinics and sanitariums.
Junk yards.
Kennels.
Marina or boat docks.
Mineral extraction.
Modular buildings, but only as an extension of a special use permit for a
state-accredited school or college for academic instruction, and only when
placed in side or rear yard areas.
Parking lots.
Private clubs, lodges, or camps.
Private greenhouses.
Sale barn.
Sanitary landfill.
Schools and colleges for academic instruction.
Sewage treatment plant.
Stockyards, commercial livestock or poultry feeding or agricultural processing
plants.
Travel trailer parks.
R-1
Single-Family Residence
Permitted Uses.
Growing of plants and trees on a private or commercial basis, provided no
retail sales are conducted on the premises.
One-family residences.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
Accommodations for professional servants, caretakers, watchmen, or custodians,
but not as a separate detached one-family dwelling on the same lot.
Fences, hedges and walls.
Incinerators for home use, provided such are located on the lot so as not to
constitute an unreasonable hazard to dwellings and other buildings on the
premises or on adjacent property, and located not less than 15 feet from any
dwelling on the premises and not less than ten feet from any other building on
the premises.
Keeping of not more than one unoccupied camping trailer.
Off-street loading facilities.
Parking spaces not for gain in addition to minimum off-street parking.
Private: Greenhouses; tool sheds; garages or carports; tennis courts; patios.
Private swimming pools.
Storage of pleasure boats.
Temporary construction sheds and temporary buildings for sale or rental offices
or show houses for use during construction operations, provided all other
regulations of the district are complied with, but in no case shall such office
be continued beyond the duration of construction of the project or one year,
whichever is greater. However, such time limit may be extended for one year by
the Board of Appeals.
Special Use Permits Required.
Any dwelling unit less than 800 square feet.
Cemeteries and mausoleums in conjunction therewith.
Churches and other places of worship, but not including funeral chapels or
mortuary chapels.
Day care or nursery schools.
Fire and police stations.
Golf courses of regulation size but not including Par 3 golf courses; and
provided that no clubhouse, parking lot or accessory building shall be located
nearer than 500 feet to any dwelling unit or other zoning lot.
Governmental uses.
Home occupations. See §
40-4-5.
Hospitals and sanitariums.
Modular buildings, but only as an extension of a special use permit for a
public, private or parochial school providing courses of instruction, at
elementary and secondary levels in accordance with standards for compulsory
education, and only when placed in side or rear yard areas.
Municipal and free private parking lots.
Nursery schools.
Planned unit developments.
Private greenhouses.
Public libraries, museums, or playgrounds.
Public, private or parochial schools providing courses of instruction, at
elementary and secondary levels in accordance with standards for compulsory
education.
Public service uses, including electrical substations, gas regulator stations,
lift stations, telephone exchange facilities and other similar uses.
Railroad rights-of-way, not including switching, storage, freight yards,
industrial sidings, or classification yards.
R-2
Single-Family Residence
Permitted Uses.
Any use permitted in the R-1 District and as regulated in Section
40-2-3(A), Line 3.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
Same as R-1.
Special Use Permits Required.
Same as R-1.
R-3
Single Family Residence
Permitted Uses.
Single-family residences.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
Same as R-1.
Special Use Permits Required.
Bed and breakfast
Same as R-1.
R-4
Two Family Residence
Permitted Uses.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Community residences, subject to the provisions of this code (see § 40-4-
21).
   Single-family residences.
   Two-family dwellings.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Parking lots and garages.
   Same as R-1.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Boarding and rooming houses.
   Churches, places of worship.
   Dormitories or singular uses.
   Medical and dental offices/complex.
   Orphanages.
   Planned unit developments.
   Rest homes.
   Same as R-1.
   Skilled nursing facility.
R-5
Multiple-Family Residence
Permitted Uses.
   Condominium dwelling, as permitted by the Illinois Condominium Property Act
   Multi-family residences.
   Two-family residences.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Same as R-4.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Assisted living.
   Bed and breakfast.
   Charitable uses provided not more than 20% of gross floor area or 2,000 sq.
ft. is used for offices.
   Fraternities.
   Hospitals.
   Hotels.
   Lodging houses.
   Medical and dental offices.
   Rest homes.
   Restaurants.
   Same as R-4.
   Single-family residence.
   Taverns.
R-6
Condominium Residence,
as permitted by the Illinois Condominium Property Act
Permitted Uses.
   Condominium dwellings.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Private clubhouses, swimming pools, tennis courts, and buildings for storage
of maintenance equipment owned by the condominium association.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Private greenhouses.
B-1
Office Business
Permitted Uses.
   Animal hospitals.
   Banks, trust companies, loan offices.
   Banquet centers.
   Barber/beauty shops.
   Clubs and lodges.
   Community centers.
   Construction company offices, but not temporary construction trailers.
   Dental offices.
   Government offices.
   Insurance sales.
   Medical offices.
   Professional offices.
   Real estate sales.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Off-street parking and loading.
   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided that
such storage shall be located on the same lot with the business and shall be
within a completely enclosed building.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Churches and other places of worship.
   Daycare centers and homes.
   Government uses, facilities and buildings.
   Planned Unit Development C.
B-2
General Business
Permitted Uses.
   Any use permitted in the B-1 District.
   Apparel cleaning services.
   Auction house.
   Automobile services and auto dealers (new and used).
   Banks/financial institutions.
   Barbers/beauty shops.
   Bed and breakfast establishment
   Bowling alleys.
   Car washes.
   Convenience store.
   Dram shops, i.e., taverns, lounges, bars.
   Food stores.
   Fruit and vegetable stands.
   Hotels/motels.
   Movie theaters.
   Nurseries/greenhouses.
   Pet washing and grooming.
   Photographers.
   Public utility offices/telephone booths.
   Recreational facilities - exterior in usage.
   Restaurants.
   Retail liquor sales.
   Retail/merchandise.
   Souvenir shops and stands, provided that all structures and goods/services
are sold within district area and bulk regulations.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Same as B-l.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Adult entertainment.
   Assisted living.
   Bulk material.
   Bus garages.
   Gym/training/fitness centers.
   Planned Unit Development “C”.
   Recovery residence
   Same as B-1.
   Self storage.
   Storage yards.
   Tattoo and/or body piercing establishment, if located not nearer than 300
feet from a residential zoned district and/or the property line of a residence
of any kind, school, church or daycare center.
   Travel trailer parks.
B-3
Central Business District
Permitted Uses.
   Amusement and recreation uses, interior.
   Any use permitted in the B-I District.
   Assisted living.
   Bed and breakfast establishments.
   Brew pubs
   Bus terminals.
   Cultural and philanthropic uses.
   Dram shops, e.g., taverns, lounges, bars
   Financial institutions.
   Food stores.
   Funeral homes.
   Furniture and household goods.
   General merchandise/apparel.
   Gym/training/fitness centers.
   Movie theaters.
   Personal service uses.
   Pet shops.
   Pet washing and grooming.
   Professional service uses.
   Printing shops.
   Restaurants.
   Retail liquor sales.
   Sale of specialized and general services, goods, merchandise, furnishings
and equipment.
   Satellite/extensions/technical schools.
   Spirits pubs
   Wine pubs
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Storage of merchandise or inventory usually carried in stock, provided that
such storage shall be located on
the lot with the retail, service or commercial use, and shall be within a
completely enclosed building, except that storage of new merchandise and new
inventory carried in stock for retail sale need not be within an enclosed
building if:
   The retail service or commercial use is located on a parcel of 5 acres or
more;
   The area used for outside storage is not more than 10% of the area, indoors
and outdoors, that the user has a right to use in connection with business
operations;
   The area used for outside storage must be set back 100 feet from any public
street adjacent to the property line and 50 feet from the side property line;
and
   The area used for outside storage must be screened from adjacent residential
property by fencing or landscaping.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Adult entertainment.
   Automobile service stations.
   Car wash.
   Churches, places of worship.
   Day care centers and homes.
   Government uses, facilities and buildings.
   Multi-family residences, when located above the first floor.
   Nurseries/greenhouses.
   Planned Unit Development C.
   Residences.
I-1
Light Industrial
Permitted Uses.
   Animal hospitals when conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
   Any use permitted in B-2, excluding restaurants or fruit and vegetable
stands.
   Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
   Automobile and/or agricultural implement sales, repair and service.
   Boat sales and service.
   Brushes and brooms.
   Business machines, repair and service storage and wholesale.
   Candy, wholesale distribution.
   Carpenter's shops and power woodworking.
   Cement products, wholesale (pipe, blocks and the like).
   Ceramic products, such as pottery.
   Cleaning and dry cleaning establishments.
   Cold storage.
   Contractors, equipment and material storage.
   Dairies and creameries.
   Decoration, workshop and equipment yards.
   Display, designers and builder's shops.
   Drugs.
   Electrical appliances, such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans.
   Electrical equipment assembly, such as radio, television and movie
equipment.
   Express companies, warehouses.
   Feed and seed stores.
   Food products, brokers, distributors and warehousing.
   Food products processing and condensing by baking, boiling, canning,
cooking, dehydrating, freezing, frying, grinding, mining, and pressing.
   Furniture, repairing and refinishing.
   Ice, dry and natural.
   Laboratories: medical, dental, research, experimental and testing.
   Lumber yards.
   Machine and equipment rental service.
   Machine shops for tool, die and pattern making.
   Manufacture or fabrication of any commodity from semi-finished material,
except explosives or flammable gases or liquids; processing of raw materials
shall not be permitted.
   Newspaper printing.
   Pet shops.
   Pharmaceutical products, compounding only.
   Places of amusement and recreation, including amusement parks, drive-in
theaters, subject to the provisions of §
40-4-2.
   Products from finished materials of plastics, bone, corn, feathers, felt,
fiber, fur, glass, hair, leather, paper, precious and semi-precious stones,
rubber, shells, yam or other similar materials.
   Provided that neither junk yards, the dismantling of vehicles or the storage
of dismantled vehicles, petroleum
bulk plants, or outside storage of flammable liquids or explosives shall be
permitted in this district; and provided further that adequate safeguards
(structural, mechanical and locational) shall be provided to protect adjoining
properties from the effects of noisome or injurious substances, conditioning
and operations.
   Research and development on any commodity except explosives or flammable
gases or liquids, and further provided that adequate safeguards (structural,
mechanical and locational) shall be provided to protect adjoining properties
from the effects of noisome or injurious substances, conditions and operations.
   Soldering and welding.
   Storage of automobiles.
   Storage yards, bulk material, self-storage.
   Termite control contractor shops.
   Tools and hardware.
   Toys.
   Trailer sales.
   Warehouses.
   Watches.
   Weighers, commercial.
   Welding, equipment and supplies, storage.
   Wood products, such as furniture, boxes, crates, baskets, pencils, and
cooperate works, provided that the manufacturing operation shall be conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, and provided further that
adequate safeguards (structural, mechanical and locational) shall be provided
to protect adjoining properties from the effects of noisome or injurious
substances, conditions and operations.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Dwelling units.
   Same as B-I.
   Storage outside a building shall provide screening or plantings ten feet in
width by at least 18 feet in height.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Adult entertainment.
   Airport or landing fields.
   Apartments.
   Automobile service stations.
   Bus terminals, lot, garage and similar transportation uses.
   Churches and other places of worship.
   Communication towers.
   Government uses, facilities and buildings.
   Motor freight terminals.
   Parks and recreation areas.
   Public utility substation, distribution centers and underground holder
stations.
   Sanitary landfill.
   Sewage treatment facilities.
   Stadiums, auditoriums and arenas.
   Tattoo and/or body piercing establishment, if located not nearer than 300
feet from a residential zoned district and/or the property line of a residence
of any kind, school, church or daycare center.
   Theaters, outdoor.
I-2
General Industrial
Permitted Uses.
   Any commercial, industrial, or manufacturing operation which is not
detrimental to the public health, safety or general welfare, and provided that
adequate safeguards (structural, mechanical and locational) shall be provided
to protect adjoining properties from the effects of noisome or injurious
substances, conditions and operations.
   Any use listed in the I-1 District, excluding any use permitted in the B-
2 Zoning District.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   Same as I-1.
Special Use Permits Required.
   Adult entertainment.
   Churches and other places of worship.
   Government uses, facilities and buildings.
   Sanitary landfills.    See §
40-4-13.
   Bulk storage of flammable gases, liquids, fats or oil in tanks.
F-1
Flood Plain Overlay
Permitted Uses.
   Parks, nature preserves, forest preserves, farming, forestry, fishing lakes.
   Storage yards not subject to major damage from flooding, and provided all
materials and equipment are
      anchored to prevent floating away.
   Prohibited uses include structures for human habitation, landfills or
dumping, and retail commercial uses.
Permitted Accessory Uses.
   No structure shall be erected unless it meets the requirements of the Flood
Plain Regulation adopted by the city.
Special Use Permits Required.
   None permitted.
§ 40-2-3(C) PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
Planned Unit Development Type C
Planned Unit Development                Type C
Minimum size                            5 acres
Districts permitted in                  B
Minimum lot requirements for the        None
development in square feet:
Centerline setback requirements         Same as Area Bulk Schedule (
                                        40-2-3(A))
Minimum time period for trust indenture 20 years
Minimum street right-of-way to be
subtracted from the total area of the   None
development regardless of amount of
land required for street right-of way
Parking requirements                    Parking - See Article IV of this
                                        chapter
Minimum area to be reserved for         300 square feet
recreation per dwelling unit
Side yard                               7.5 feet
Rear yard                               25 feet
                                        Commercial uses contained within a
Permitted uses                          building are permitted in the B-1, B-
                                        2 and B-3 Districts, plus governmental
                                        and public service uses.
 
(Ord. 1070, § 40-2-3, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1084, passed 12-7-1998; Am.
Ord. 1097, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 1129, passed 2-7-2000; Am. Ord. 1153,
passed 8-21-2000; Am. Ord. 1156, passed 10-16-2000; Am. Ord. 1166, passed 1-2-
2001; Am. Ord. 1194, passed 9-17-2001; Am. Ord. 1266, passed 8-4-2003; Am. Ord.
1287, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord. 1323, passed 11-22-2004; Am. Ord. 1354, passed
11-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1424, passed 2-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1455, passed 11-5-2007;
Am. Ord. 1456, passed 11-5-2007; Am. Ord. 1457, passed 11-19-2007; Am. Ord.
1458, passed 11-26- 2007; Am. Ord. 1465, passed 1-7-2008; Am. Ord. 1483, passed
7-7-2008; Am. Ord. 1550, passed 6-21-2010; Am. Ord. 1558, passed 9-7-2010; Am.
Ord. 1570, passed 2-7-2011; Am. Ord. 1591, passed 1-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1621,
passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1627, passed 4-1-2013; Am. Ord. 1658, passed 3-17-
2014; Am. Ord. 1662, passed 4-21-2014; Am. Ord. 1673, passed 11-17-2014; Am.
Ord. 1677, passed 2-23-2015; Am. Ord. 1712, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1757,
passed 5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 1758, passed 6-4-2018; Am. Ord. 1762, passed 9-4-
2018; Am. Ord. 1781, passed 5-6-2019; Am. Ord. 1824, passed 6-7-2021; Am. Ord.
1864, passed 11-7-2022; Am. Ord. 1868, passed 1-3-2023; Am. Ord. 1869, passed
1-3-2023)
ARTICLE III: GENERAL SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
40-3-1   Permitted use
   
40-3-2   Buildings: accessory buildings
   
40-3-3   Buildings: bulk of buildings
   
40-3-4   Buildings: maximum height of building; special exceptions
   
40-3-5   Buildings: one principal building allowed per lot; yards
   
40-3-6   Buildings: use or occupancy of temporary structures or containers
   
40-3-7   Lot: corner and through lots
   
40-3-8   Lot: division of zoning lots
   
40-3-9   Lot: frontage requirements
   
40-3-10   Lots recorded after the adoption of this code
   
40-3-11   Yards: yards, courts and other open spaces
   
40-3-12   Yards: exceptions
   
40-3-13   Yards: location of required open space
   
40-3-14   Yards: required for existing buildings
   
40-3-15   Lighting controls
   
40-3-16   Slope
   
40-3-17   Flags and flagpoles
§ 40-3-1 PERMITTED USE.
   Whenever a use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district, except as provided in Article XIII. However, if the Zoning
Administrator determines that the proposed use is similar to and compatible
with the listed uses, and following consultation and approval of The Board of
Zoning Appeals, he may determine that said use is permitted within the zoning
district. The Zoning Administrator's decision, upon concurrence with the Board
of Zoning Appeals, shall become a public record, and any unlisted uses that
they approve shall thereafter have the same status as listed uses.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-1, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1187, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 40-3-2 BUILDINGS: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Residential.
      (1)   Accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be used for
residential living space. Residential accessory buildings shall not be larger
than an aggregate total of 900 square feet, and not to exceed two accessory
buildings per lot. A residential accessory buildings’ external building
material must either be of horizontal lap siding of wood, vinyl, metal, brick,
or masonry; or of vertical wood panel siding. Galvanized corrugated siding is
not allowed. Roofing material must consist of asphaltic composite shingles,
wood shake, tile, slate or metal. Metal roofing is only permitted when it
substantially matches the roofing material used on the primary structure. Any
metal roofing material that utilizes exposed fasteners is prohibited.
      (2)   Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems are not allowed.
      (3)   Additions. An addition to a principal building – room, carport,
garage, and the like, must match the building materials of the principal
building. Exceptions may be granted by the City Council on a case-by-case
basis.
      (4)   Greenhouses and accessory buildings shall not be larger than an
aggregate total of 900 square feet, and not to exceed two accessory buildings /
greenhouses per lot. Greenhouse shall be purchased from a manufacturer or built
from quality materials.
   (B)   Commercial. Commercial accessory buildings are subject to the area/
bulk regulations as stipulated in §
40-2-3(A), Area and Bulk Regulations. A commercial addition or accessory
building’s external building material must match that of the principal building
except that:
      (1)   Roofs of commercial accessory buildings on golf courses and parks
need not match that of the principal building but the roofing material must be
one of the following: asphaltic composite shingles, wood shake, tile, slate or
standing metal seam; and
      (2)   Roofs of commercial accessory buildings which are pavilions (a
building open on all sides) on recreational fields for team sports need not
match that of the principal building but must be one of the following:
asphaltic composite shingles, wood shake, tile, slate or standing metal seam;
and,
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-2, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1686, passed 9-28-2015; Am.
Ord. 1711, passed 1-16-2017; Am. Ord. 1845, passed 3-21-2022; Am. Ord. 1864,
passed 11-7-2022) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 40-3-3 BUILDINGS: BULK OF BUILDINGS.
   All buildings and structures shall conform to the building regulations
established herein for the district in which each building shall be located,
except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, fire
towers, stacks, and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be permitted to
exceed to maximum height provisions when erected in accordance with all other
ordinances of the county.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-3, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-4 BUILDINGS: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF BUILDING; SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   The height limitations of this code shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas, penthouses or domes not used for human occupancy, nor to
chimneys, ventilators, skylights, water tanks, silos, parapet walls, cornices
without windows, antennas, or necessary mechanical appurtenances usually
carried above roof level.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-3-5 BUILDINGS: ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ALLOWED PER LOT; YARDS.
   No part of an area, frontage, or yard required for any lot, building, or use
for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this code shall be included
as an area, frontage or yard for another lot, building or use. Except as
otherwise specifically provided in this Code, only one principal single-family
residential building shall be permitted on a lot.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-5, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-6 BUILDINGS: USE OR OCCUPANCY OF TEMPORARY STRUCTURES OR CONTAINERS.
   No temporary structure (including but not limited to, travel trailers, horse
trailers, motor homes, homes, shipping containers, tents, or portable, on-
demand storage units, PODS) shall be used or occupied for any residential,
commercial, institutional or industrial use. However, the City Council, or its
designee, may permit the use of such temporary structures or containers for a
reasonable time, for such use, and subject to such conditions as the city deems
to be compatible with the character of the area in which the structure is
located, and in compliance with reasonable consideration of the general health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1608, passed 7-2-2012)
§ 40-3-7 LOT: CORNER AND THROUGH LOTS.
   Pertaining to principal buildings, both yards abutting a street shall comply
with the front yard requirement of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-7, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-8 LOT: DIVISION OF ZONING LOTS.
   No zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two or more zoning lots,
unless all zoning lots resulting from each division shall conform to all the
applicable regulations of the zoning district in which the property is located.
Any division of a zoning lot or tract of land must conform to the subdivision
regulations where applicable.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-8, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1663, passed 4-21-2014)
Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 40-3-9 LOT: FRONTAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All lots, except in the A-1 District and row dwellings, shall abut a public
street with a minimum frontage distance of 50 linear feet.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-9, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-10 LOTS RECORDED AFTER THE ADOPTION OF THIS CODE.
   No parcel of land described by metes and bounds or any lot shall hereinafter
be created which does not conform with and meet the requirements of this code
and other ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-10, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-11 YARDS: YARDS, COURTS AND OTHER OPEN SPACES.
   No legally required yards, courts, or other open space or minimum lot area
allocated to any building shall, by virtue of change of ownership or for any
other reason, be used to satisfy yard, court, other open space, or minimum lot
area requirements for any other building.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-11, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-3-12 YARDS: EXCEPTIONS.
   Subject to the requirements that there be a minimum distance of 15 feet
between any point on a principal building and any point on any principal
building on an adjacent lot, the following exceptions shall apply:
   (A)   Cornices, chimneys, planters, or other similar architectural features
may extend two feet into a required yard.
   (B)   Open, unenclosed porches at ground level may extend into a required
yard not more than six feet.
   (C)   Fire escapes may extend into a required yard no more than four feet.
   (D)   Patios extending into required rear yards may be covered by a roof,
but shall not be enclosed by walls. Such covered patios shall extend no more
than ten feet into the required rear yard.
   (E)   Canopies, eaves, balconies, roof overhangs or other similar features
not included in the foregoing parts of this section, may extend into a required
yard not more than four feet.
   (F)   Unless otherwise provided for in this § 40-3-12, notwithstanding the
front setback requirements of Area Bulk Schedule, §
40-2-3(A), the following shall apply in all residential districts and to lots
in the B District developed with residential structures: Where 50% or more of
the lots on one side of a street, between intersecting streets, are developed
with buildings, and where the front setbacks of such developed lots do not vary
by more than ten feet, the minimum front setback required shall be the mean
average of the front setback of such developed lots.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-12, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-13 YARDS: LOCATION OF REQUIRED OPEN SPACE.
   All yards, courts, and other open spaces allocated to a building or dwelling
group shall be located on the same zoning lot as such building.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-13, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-3-14 YARDS: REQUIRED FOR EXISTING BUILDINGS.
   No yards now or hereafter provided for a building on the effective date of
this code shall subsequently be reduced below, or further reduced below, if
already less than, the minimum yard requirements of this code for equivalent
new construction.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-14, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-3-15 LIGHTING CONTROLS.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, parking areas, swimming pools,
or for any other purpose shall be arranged in such a manner as to direct the
light away from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of
passing motorists. Any appeals of direct lighting requirements or nuisance
complaints will be directed to and supervised by the City Council.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-15, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-3-16 SLOPE.
   No building permit shall be issued in any district where the change in
elevation within 50 feet of any wall of the principal building would exceed 4%,
until the following additional requirements have been met:
   (A)   A site plan shall be drawn to a reasonable scale with contour
intervals at least every ten feet, and the location of all buildings and
structures and their required minimum yard requirements shall be indicated. The
principal use of the lot shall be indicated.
   (B)   Adequate evidence must be presented to show that undue erosion will
not result from development and use of the lot. Structural, mechanical and
locational measures shall be taken to prevent and protect any building from
hillside slippage.
   (C)   A stable angle of recline for the properties of soil on the lot shall
be provided.
   (D)   Significant changes in the natural flow of watercourses are
prohibited, nor shall excessive runoff of storm water otherwise be permitted.
   (E)   Adequate consideration shall be given to access to the property and to
emergency vehicle access and turnarounds to the principal building.
   (F)   Structural and mechanical devices shall be installed to provide
reasonable protection against undue hazards created or caused by the
development.
   (G)   In no case shall any development be detrimental to adjacent
properties.
   (H)   Before any building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for any such lot, the Zoning Administrator shall review the site plan and
determine that all conditions imposed hereunder have been complied with.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-3-17, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-3-17 FLAGS AND FLAGPOLES.
   (A)   One flagpole no more than 20 feet above ground level, and not more
than two flags measuring no more than three feet in width and no more than five
feet in length is permitted on each lot in all residential zoning districts.
One flagpole no more than 35 feet above ground level and two flags measuring no
more than five feet in width and no more than eight feet in length is permitted
on each lot in all business, industrial, and agricultural zoning districts.
   (B)   No flagpole shall be permitted on any public right-of-way or easement.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, also known as the Zoning Board of
Appeals, shall, under the provisions of §
40-7-4 of this code, have the power to grant a variance from the requirements
of this section to allow one flagpole of no more than 40 feet above ground
level on each lot.
   (D)   After consideration of an application for a flagpole higher than 40
feet above ground level by the Board of Zoning Appeals, also known as the
Zoning Board of Appeals, and its recommendation thereon, the City Council shall
have the power to grant further variance from the requirements set forth in
this section. The City Council shall not grant a variance from the
aforementioned requirements unless it finds that the conditions set forth in §
40-7-4(B) of this code exists.
(Ord. 1169, passed 1-2-2001)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE IV: SUPPLEMENTARY USE AND BULK REGULATIONS
Section
   
40-4-1   Churches and places of formal worship
   
40-4-2   Restricted area
   
40-4-3   Fences, walls and hedges
   
40-4-4   Gasoline service stations
   
40-4-5   Home occupations, urban
   
40-4-6   (Reserved)
   
40-4-7   (Reserved)
   
40-4-8   (Reserved)
   
40-4-9   Nursing homes
   
40-4-10   Plant nurseries and greenhouses
   
40-4-11   Public buildings
   
40-4-12   Public utility stations, exchanges and essential services
   
40-4-13   Sanitary landfill
   
40-4-14   Schools, private and parochial
   
40-4-15   Signs: business
   
40-4-16   Signs: billboards
   
40-4-17   Nonconforming signs and billboards
   
40-4-18   Swimming pools
   
40-4-19   Travel trailers
   
40-4-20   Travel trailer parks
   
40-4-21   Community residences
   
40-4-22   Construction of improvements within public right-of-way
   
Figure 1:    Restricted area
§ 40-4-1 CHURCHES AND PLACES OF FORMAL WORSHIP.
   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all property
lines or shall meet the zoning district yard setback requirements, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-1, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-2 RESTRICTED AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of minimizing traffic hazards at street intersections
by improving visibility for converging vehicles, obstructions between two feet
and eight feet above the adjacent top of the curb or street elevation,
whichever is higher, shall not be permitted to be planted, placed or erected on
any corner lot within the triangular portion of land designated as "restricted
area" in Figure 1.
   (B)   Exception: Principal buildings in the B-3, Central Business District
are exempt from division (A) above.
(Ord. 1491, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 40-4-3 FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   Fences, walls or hedges used for any purpose shall in all districts conform
to the following:
   (A)   No barbed wire or other such sharp-pointed fence below eight feet in
height and no electrically charged fence shall be erected or maintained except
in agricultural districts.
   (B)   Fences, walls and hedges may be located along lot lines, provided they
are not prohibited hereinabove, and provided the following regulations are met:
      (1)   Fences located in the required front yard setback area shall not be
greater than four feet in height.
      (2)   Fences not in the required front yard setback area and on the
property line shall not be greater than six feet in height.
      (3)   Easements shall not be obstructed.
   (C)   Fences must be constructed with the posts on the owner’s side of the
fence.
   (D)   A fence constructed of chain link material is not allowed forward of
the rear face of the house structure, with the exception for pools, splash
pads, tennis and pickle ball courts on public property.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-3, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1296, passed 5-3-2004; Am.
Ord. 1491, passed 9-2-2008; Am. Ord. 1761, passed 8-6-2018; Am. Ord. 1844,
passed 3-21-2022)    
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-4 GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS.
   In districts where gasoline service stations are permitted, the
establishment of such uses shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   All gasoline pumps, lubrication or similar devices and other service
facilities shall be located at least 20 feet from any street right-of-way line.
   (B)   All fuel and oil storage, and all pumps or other such fuel or
lubricant dispensing devices shall be located least 20 feet from any side or
rear lot line.
   (C)   No access drive shall be within 400 feet of a fire station, school,
public library, church, park or playground.
   (D)   All devices for dispensing or selling of milk, ice, cold drinks, and
the like shall be located within or immediately adjacent to the principal
building.
   (E)   Whenever a gasoline service station has been abandoned, all
underground storage tanks shall either be removed or filled with sand or some
other acceptable material. A gasoline service station shall be considered
abandoned when the owner, tenant, or lessor has not sought to continue the use
for a period exceeding 12 months.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-4-5 HOME OCCUPATIONS, URBAN.
   Urban home occupations shall be considered special uses. The establishment
and continuance of an urban home occupation shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   Such use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on
by not more than two individuals, at least one of whom is the principal
occupant.
   (B)   Such use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and shall not change the residential character
thereof.
   (C)   The total area used for such purposes shall not exceed the equivalent
of one-fourth of the floor area, in square feet, of the first floor of the
user's dwelling unit, if any, otherwise of the main floor of such dwelling
unit; but in any instance a maximum of 300 square feet shall be allowed.
   (D)   There shall be no advertising, display or other indications of a home
occupation on the premises except as provided in §
40-4-15.
   (E)   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of selling
from stocks of merchandise, supplies, or products, provided that incidental
retail sales may be made in connection with other permitted home occupations.
   (F)   There shall be no exterior storage on the premises of material used in
the home occupation, nor of any highly explosive or combustible material.
   (G)   There shall be no offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat
or glare noticeable at or beyond the property line.
   (H)   A home occupation which includes studios or rooms for instruction,
shall provide additional off-street parking area reasonably adequate to
accommodate needs created by the home occupation of not less than two parking
spaces, plus the space required for the dwelling unit. Such parking shall be
provided on the same lot as the home occupation.
   (I)   A home occupation shall not be located in any garage, storage
building, or accessory building.
   (J)   A home occupation shall not include the following: clinic, hospital,
mortuary, funeral home, nursing home, tea room, tourist home, antique shop,
animal hospital, restaurant, veterinarian's office, or use similar to any of
the foregoing excluded uses.
   (K)   If the Zoning Board of Appeals determines a home occupation is in
violation of any of the requirements of this section, then the Zoning
Administrator shall revoke the special use permit.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-5, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-6 (RESERVED)
§ 40-4-7 (RESERVED)
§ 40-4-8 (RESERVED)
§ 40-4-9 NURSING HOMES.
   In any district where nursing homes are permitted, the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The minimum site for any nursing home shall be two acres; provided
that for a nursing home containing more than 40 beds, the minimum site area
shall be the greater of two acres or the number of acres determined by the
following formula:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3374e5ae76ef57ef4f40fd6b0698deca018b7949/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2627.bmp]
 
   (B)   All principal buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot
lines.
   (C)   The site shall have a minimum length and width dimension of 200 feet.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-9, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-10 PLANT NURSERIES AND GREENHOUSES.
   In any district where tree and plant nurseries and greenhouses are
permitted, the establishment of such uses shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   No fertilizer, compost, manure or other odor- or dust-producing
substance shall be stored within 50 feet of any property line.
   (B)   In the B and I Districts, greenhouses utilizing light for heating
plants shall be in an enclosed building and shall not be less than 50 feet from
any property line.
   (C)   The following divisions shall apply for private greenhouses located in
agricultural and residential zoned districts:
      (1)   Special use permit required.
      (2)   Lighting used as a heat source is prohibited.
      (3)   Private greenhouses will be considered as an accessory building
(see §
40-3-2).
      (4)   Setbacks for private greenhouses shall conform to the same setback
requirements in §
40-2-3(A).
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-10, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1864, passed 11-7-2022)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-11 PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any district where publicly-owned buildings, other than city buildings,
are permitted, there shall be no permanent storage of heavy construction or
maintenance equipment such as excavating, road building, or hauling equipment,
unless in an enclosed building or enclosed within a planting screen, solid wall
or fence at least six feet in height. Such storage areas, maintenance yards, or
storage warehouses shall be located at least 25 feet from any front or side
property line.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-11, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-12 PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS, EXCHANGES AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Electrical substations, gas regulator stations, telephone exchange
facilities or similar facilities in any R Residential, F Floodplain, or A
Agricultural District shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   No public office, principal repair or storage facilities shall be
maintained in connection with such substations or exchanges.
   (B)   The building housing any such facility shall be designed and
constructed to conform to the general character of the neighborhood.
   (C)   The area on which the facility is located shall be landscaped and
maintained in conformance with the general character of the surrounding area.
   (D)   Where all facilities and equipment are entirely within a completely
enclosed building, the minimum lot shall be as follows: lot width shall not be
less than the total width of the building plus the total of the minimum
required side yards; lot depth shall not be less than the depth of the building
plus the minimum required front yard plus the three-foot minimum rear yard.
   (E)   Where facilities or equipment are located outside the completely
enclosed building, such facilities or equipment shall not be located closer
than 15 feet to any side or rear lot line.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-12, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-13 SANITARY LANDFILL.
   In any district where a sanitary landfill is permitted, the following
additional requirements shall apply:
   (A)   A permit for any landfill operation shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator only after the receipt of all required maps and documents and
after a review and favorable formal action by the Planning Commission and
Zoning Board of Appeals, instructing the Zoning Administrator to issue the
permit.
   (B)   The following documents and maps of the site, at a scale not less than
one inch equals 200 feet, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator,
showing:
      (1)   Existing topography of the site at ten-foot contour intervals and
spot elevations in places too flat to be adequately defined contours.
      (2)   Present use of the land and all natural features, such as natural
watercourses and drainage areas, forested areas, historic sites and the like.
      (3)   Ownership of the subject property and the abutting properties.
      (4)   A plan for the proposed use of the land, indicating the type and
location of transportation facilities available and the intended use or loading
of these facilities; the type and location of utilities and power facilities to
be used; and such other data as is necessary to explain and define the intended
operation.
      (5)   A plan for reshaping and final grading and drainage of the land
which shall show final contours, at an interval of ten feet or spot elevations
in places too flat to be adequately defined by contours.
      (6)   A statement from a qualified soil scientist, geologist, or engineer
stating the expected severity of ground water and surface water pollution that
will be generated.
   (C)   Whenever waste is covered with soil, to final grade that soil shall be
immediately graded and seeded to ensure maximum coverage, to minimize erosion
and to prevent the siltation of streams.
   (D)   The plan for the final grading and contouring of the site shall
provide that the land can be readily used for urban and/or agricultural
purposes after the landfill operation has ceased.
      (1)   All topsoil shall be stored and retained on the site and re-spread
during grading of the site.
      (2)   A performance bond, equal to the amount of the assessed valuation
of the property for tax purposes, shall be posted with the county to ensure
shaping of the topography in conformance with the plan after the operation has
ceased or has been abandoned. Failure to continue active operation for a
consecutive 12-month period shall be deemed to constitute abandonment.
   (E)   No sanitary landfill shall be carried out within 1,000 linear feet of
any R Residential District or any existing residential subdivision.
   (F)   No sanitary landfill operation shall be permitted except by a special
use permit.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-13, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-14 SCHOOLS, PRIVATE AND PAROCHIAL.
   In any district where private and/or parochial schools are permitted, the
following additional requirements shall be met:
   (A)   The site shall have a minimum of four acres and one additional acre
for each 150 pupils in excess of 200.
   (B)   Each principal building shall be located at least 25 feet from all
property lines.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-14, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-15 SIGNS: BUSINESS.
   (A)   No signs shall be installed within the city until a sign permit has
been issued by the Zoning Administrator, with the exception of temporary
billboards.
   (B)   Sign regulations of this code shall not apply to governmental signs,
including traffic signs which are erected and intended for public information,
direction, safety or control purposes, and no sign in any district shall
conflict in any manner with the clear and obvious appearance of public devices
controlling public traffic.
   (C)   The only permitted sign in any zoning district, except as otherwise
provided herein, is a sign attached to a building. Said sign shall not project
more than two feet from the building, nor more than two feet above the face of
the building.
   (D)   No sign shall be placed on any public property, right-of-way or
easement, except as noted in division (E). In addition, no sign which would
obstruct the line of sight shall be placed within the triangular portion of
land designated as “restricted area” in Figure 1 of §
40-4-2.
   (E)   No sign shall extend into a public right-of-way, except in a B-
3 District. Such signs shall be attached to a building, and shall be at least
eight feet above the traveled way. All restrictions from division (C) shall
apply.
   (F)   No roof signs shall be permitted in any district.
   (G)   Illuminated signs, flashing or scrolling signs, and electronic message
boards.
      (1)   Any sign located nearer than 75 feet of any residential zoning
district shall not be illuminated, unless approved by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
      (2)   No flashing or scrolling signs shall be permitted in any zoning
district.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the above, one electronic time and temperature sign
and two message board signs shall be permitted, but only if changed less often
than every 15 seconds. Signs permitted under this section shall be allowed to
have background images, such as snowflakes falling, but not video. Further, any
sign permitted under this section, which is contiguous to or directly across
the street from residential property, shall be automatically controlled to
reduce its illumination by 90%, from dusk to dawn, and shall conform to
division (G)(1) above.
   (H)   In any business district, the maximum total surface area of all signs
shall be one square foot of sign area for each linear foot of width of business
building or business unit that faces a right-of way, provided that the total
surface area of all signs shall not exceed 200 square feet on any business.
   (I)    In any business district, when the business building is located on a
lot or parcel of more than 15 acres, then the total surface area of signs or
any building face shall not exceed 800 square feet. Also, in any business
district, when the business building is located on a lot or parcel of more than
15 acres, not less than two nor more than three freestanding signs of not more
than 350 square feet in the aggregate shall be permitted.
   (J)    Signs permitted in Districts I-1 and I-2 shall not exceed 100 square
feet per premise.
   (K)   Only one side of any double-facing sign shall be considered in the
total sign area permitted for any business, building, use or lot, provided that
the same message appears on both faces of the sign.
   (L)   Freestanding and monument signs.
      (1)   In any B or I District, a freestanding or monument sign of not more
than 100 square feet shall be permitted, subject to the provisions of division
(H) of this section.
      (2)   In any R District, a maximum of two monument signs, of not more
than 32 square feet each, shall be permitted at each major access point to any
subdivision or development.
      (3)   No freestanding or monument sign shall be placed on the right-of-
way, easement areas or restricted areas. See §
40-4-2, Figure 1.
      (4)   No freestanding sign shall exceed 20 feet in height from ground
level, or 20 feet in height above the grade level of the traveled way to which
the sign is oriented. No freestanding sign shall exceed 100 square feet of sign
area, or 12 feet in length or width.
      (5)   The base of a monument sign will not be included in the calculation
of total sign area.
      (6)   Monument signs shall be a maximum of six feet high.
      (7)   In determining the height of any sign above grade level, it shall
be measured on the shortest line perpendicular with the top of the sign and the
traveled way.
      (8)   Route 3 corridor frontage lots are considered to be lots located
adjacent to and having frontage along Route 3. This is separate and shall not
be included in the total wall surface area of division (H). The following
divisions apply to freestanding and monument signs on Route 3 frontage lots,
excluding all of Market Street.
         (a)   Freestanding signs are not permitted.
         (b)   Signs shall not be closer than 50 feet from another sign.
         (c)   Lots with one building site are permitted one monument sign.
         (d)   The total monument sign area allowance shall be four-tenths
square feet of signage per linear foot of Route 3 frontage, and shall not
exceed 75 square feet. For example: 100 foot frontage x 0.4 = 40 square foot
sign. The frontage length shall be measured along the front yard building
setback adjacent and parallel to Route 3.
         (e)   Monument signs shall not exceed six feet in height above the
average existing finished grade or the elevation of the adjacent street,
whichever is higher, to a maximum height of 12 feet. Any building-up or
mounding of land at the base of such sign generated to “lift” such sign above a
consistent grade with the lot shall be debited against the permitted sign
height. For each additional five-foot setback from the property line along
Route 3, the sign height may increase by one foot, for a maximum of 12 feet in
height.
         (f)   The base shall be no less than 50% of the width of the face of
the sign.
   (M)   A business center adjacent to New Route 3 or Market Street, as an
entity, may erect a business center sign in accordance with the provisions of
this code if: (1) the center is a minimum of three acres in size, then a sign
of up to 50 square feet in area may be permitted; or if (2) the center is over
seven acres in size, then a sign of up to 100 square feet in area may be
permitted. A second business center sign may be permitted at a rear entrance to
the business center, with a sign area not to exceed 50% of the above sign.
Business center signs will not be calculated toward the total surface sign
area.
   (N)   In a subdivision for which a plat has been approved by the city, non-
illuminated, temporary, subdivision signs may be erected, subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   No more than one such sign at each major access point shall be
permitted for any subdivision, except when a permanent monument sign has been
erected thereat, in which case one additional such subdivision sign shall be
permitted at the location. The subdivision signs authorized by this division
(N)(1) shall be removed within seven days of the closing of the subdivision
developer’s sale of the last lot in the subdivision, unless the subdivision
developer resides, occupies or conducts business upon a lot or lots in the
subdivision, in which case such signs must be removed within seven days of the
sale of the last lot other than the lot or lots on which the developer resides,
occupies or conducts business.
      (2)   The total sign area of each such subdivision sign shall not exceed
32 square feet.
   (O)   In any zoning district where a planned unit development exists or
occurs, only one sign on a freestanding structure or building at each major
access point of the development, extending not more than one foot from such
building or structure, and not exceeding 50 square feet, shall be permitted to
identify the development.
   (P)   In any residential district where urban home occupations are
permitted, the only sign permitted shall be an identification sign of not more
than one square foot that is attached to the residence. Said sign shall be
flush with the facade and shall not extend past the facade edge in any way.
    (Q)   Bed and breakfast establishments shall be limited to one sign, not to
exceed nine square feet in area.
   (R)   With the exception of division (N), temporary signs shall be allowed
for a period not to exceed 14 days, and shall not exceed 32 square feet of sign
area. Time extensions may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals. The
location of temporary signs must comply with all requirements of this code, and
their use is limited to twice per year per property. If a temporary sign is
erected and then removed prior to the 14 consecutive days allowed, that will be
considered to be one use.
   (S)   "For Sale" signs in any R District shall not exceed six square feet in
area, and in any B or I District shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   (T)   Directional signs are permitted on parking areas subject to an
aggregate total of ten square feet.
Such directional signs shall be excluded from computations of total surface
sign area.
   (U)   Construction signs shall not exceed 64 square feet per premise.
   (V)   Special sign permits may be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals:
      (1)   In case of unusual circumstances, for signs that substantially meet
applicable requirements of this code, subject to additional conditions that may
be applied by the Zoning Board of Appeals; and
      (2)    For a sign area in excess of that allowed by division (H) of this
section for a business on a single site in a B District.
   (W)   Unsafe and unlawful signs.
      (1)   Whenever a sign is found to be erected or maintained in violation
of any provision of this
code or of any other ordinance or law, the Zoning Administrator shall order
that such sign be altered, repaired, reconstructed, demolished or removed as
may be appropriate to abate such condition. Any work required to be done shall,
unless a different time is specified, be completed within ten days of the date
of such order.
      (2)   Failure, neglect, or refusal by any person, corporation or
otherwise to comply with any of the provisions of this section shall be subject
to the penalties defined in §
40-1-11.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-15, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1254, passed 4-7-2003; Am.
Ord. 1424, passed 2-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1483, passed 7-7- 2008; Am. Ord. 1491,
passed 9-2-2008; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 4-6-2009; Am. Ord. 1640, passed 5-20-
2013; Am. Ord. 1838, passed 2-7-2022) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 40-4-16 SIGNS: BILLBOARDS.
   All billboards hereafter constructed erected, painted, or otherwise
established, moved, altered, or changed within the city's limits of
jurisdiction shall comply with the following regulations and with §
40-2-3(A), except that repair and/or maintenance of lawful nonconforming signs
shall be in accordance with the regulations set forth in Article X.
   (A)   Size. No billboard may be erected which exceeds 100 square feet in
area, including border and trim, but excluding ornamental base or apron,
supports and other structural members. The length or width of any billboard
shall not be greater than 12 feet. Double-faced signs, and back-to-back signs
within two feet of each other, and V-type signs shall be considered as one
sign.
   (B)   Lighting.
      (1)   No billboard shall have any blinking, flashing, or rotating lights
or any other device which attracts attention by visual means through the
movement or the semblance of movement, except those giving public service
information, such as, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, time,
weather, date and temperature.
      (2)   No sign may be erected or maintained which is not effectively
shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any
portion of the traveled way of any interstate or primary highway, or which is
of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare or to impair the vision of
the driver of any motor vehicle.
   (C)   Spacing.
      (1)   No sign shall be located in such manner as to obstruct or otherwise
physically interfere with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign,
signal, or device; or obstruct or physically interfere with a motor vehicle
operator's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
      (2)   No two billboards on the same side of a street or highway shall be
erected less than 1,000 feet apart.
   (D)   Location of billboards. Billboards, other than temporary billboard
signs, shall be permitted by special use permit in the General Industrial
Zoning Districts, provided they are not located in the following areas:
      (1)   Within 100 feet of any property in any Residential District;
      (2)   In the required setback area of any zoning district;
      (3)   Where it would block the view of any on-site advertising sign(s)
which advertise the business(es) on the adjacent property(ies).
   (E)   Height. No part of any billboard shall exceed 20 feet in height above
the ground level of the traveled way. Any billboard shall not extend more than
five feet above the parapet, eaves or building facade of the building to which
it is attached.
   (F)   Temporary billboards.
      (1)   Auction/garage sale. Signs commonly regarded as “garage sale” or
“yard sale” signs shall be permitted only on private property and shall be
restricted to a maximum area of four square feet. The sign shall be dated when
posted and must be removed within five days after posting. One auction
directional sign measuring not more than four square feet may be placed on
private property abutting the nearest high volume traffic street on the day
before the auction and the day of the auction only.
      (2)   Political campaign. One sign per office per lot up to 32 square
feet on nonresidential property and 16 square feet in residential and
agricultural districts may be permitted announcing candidates for public
office. (Exception: On corner lots, one sign per office as described above may
be placed facing each street.) Such political campaign signs may be exhibited
for a period of not more than 30 days prior to the election to which they
relate, and must be removed within two days after the election to which they
relate.
      (3)   Public interest. Other signs publicizing a charitable or nonprofit
event of general public interest may be permitted only on private property, and
shall be restricted to a maximum area of four square feet in agricultural and
residential-zoned districts and 16 square feet in business or industrial- zoned
districts. Such signs shall be permitted for no more than 14 days immediately
preceding the event and must be removed within two days after the event.
      (4)   Courthouse Square signs.
         (a)   The following signs and only the following signs are permitted
to be placed on the decorative light poles on the Monroe County Courthouse
Square property: signs publicizing Springfest, Porta Westfalica Fest, Waterloo
Homecoming and Fallfest.
         (b)   Such signs shall be restricted to a maximum area of six square
feet.
         (c)   Such signs shall be permitted for no more than 14 days
immediately preceding the event, and must be removed within two days after the
event.
   (G)   Owner's name. There shall be placed and maintained on the vertical
surface of each billboard or outdoor advertising sign the name of the person or
company owning, or who is in possessive charge or control of the same, for
advertising purposes.
   (H)   Unsafe and unlawful billboards.
      (1)   Whenever a billboard is found to be erected or maintained in
violation of any provision of this code or of any other ordinance or law, the
Zoning Administrator shall order that such sign be altered, repaired,
reconstructed, demolished or removed as may be appropriate to abate such
condition. Any work required to be done shall, unless a different time is
specified, be completed within ten days of the date of such order.
      (2)   Failure, neglect, or refusal by any person, corporation or
otherwise of any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to the
penalties defined in §
40-12-3 of this code.
   (I)   (1)   An organization recognized as exempt from taxation by Section
501 of the Internal Revenue Code, hereinafter referred to as “charitable
organization”, may place and maintain one directional billboard hereinafter
provided if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The charitable organization has conveyed or dedicated to the
city land for a public street upon which the billboard is erected or is to be
erected;
         (b)   The billboard is erected or to be erected at the intersection of
the street for which the land was conveyed or dedicated and another street;
         (c)   The land so conveyed or dedicated is located adjacent to the lot
or land on which the activity to which the billboard refers is located;
         (d)   The charitable organization owns the lot on which the activity
to which the billboard refers;
         (e)   The billboard complies with site location anal size as fixed for
such billboard by the City Council and otherwise complies with city ordinances,
except those relating to the location of billboards;
         (f)   The billboard complies with all applicable state and federal
regulations;
         (g)   The charitable organization maintains the billboard and the area
immediately surrounding the billboard in good condition and repair;
         (h)   The charitable organization obtains approval from the City
Council for the location and size of the billboard before placement thereof;
         (i)   The area upon which the billboard is located is not required for
paved road surfaces, sidewalks or municipal utility purposes;
         (j)   The charitable organization has entered into an agreement with
the city for the location and size of the billboard prior to the conveyance or
dedication of the land for street purposes; and
      (2)   If a charitable organization erects a billboard pursuant to this
division (I) and thereafter fails to comply with any provisions of this
division (I), the city may notify the charitable organization of such
compliance failure. If the charitable organization does not cure such
compliance failure within 60 days after such notice, the city may remove such
billboard at the charitable organization's cost, and upon such removal the
charitable organization's right to maintain such a billboard pursuant to this
division (I) shall be terminated and of no further force or effect.
   (J)   Hotel, motel, and motor hotel directional billboards.  
      (1)   The owner of a hotel, motel, or motor hotel, hereinafter referred
to as the owner, may place and maintain one directional billboard for the
hotel, motel, or motor hotel if all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The directional billboard is erected on land which: (1) is
either owned by the owner or leased to the owner on an annual basis; and (2) is
located within 100 feet of an arterial street.
         (b)   The hotel, motel, or motor hotel to which the directional
billboard refers is located on a lot: (1) that does not abut an arterial
street; and (2) that abuts a street intersecting the arterial street along
which the billboard is erected.
         (c)   The billboard complies with site location and size as fixed for
such billboard by city ordinances, except those relating to the location of
billboards;
         (d)   The billboard complies with all applicable state and federal
regulations;
         (e)   The owner maintains the billboard and the area immediately
surrounding the billboard in good condition and repair.
      (2)   If an owner erects a billboard pursuant to this division (J) and
thereafter fails to comply with any provisions of this division (J), the city
may notify the owner of such compliance failure. If the owner does not cure
such compliance failure within 60 days after such notice, the city may remove
such billboard at the cost of the owner, and upon such removal the permission
of the owner to maintain such a billboard pursuant to this division (J) shall
be terminated and of no further force or effect.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-16, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1159, passed 11-6-2000; Am.
Ord. 1168, passed 1-2-2001; Am. Ord. 1507, passed 4-6-2009)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-17 NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   A NONCONFORMING SIGN OR BILLBOARD is any sign or billboard which was
lawfully erected prior to the date of enactment of this zoning code which does
not conform to one or more provisions of this zoning code. All nonconforming
signs and billboards shall be exempt from the requirements of this zoning code,
provided they are not:
      (1)   Altered or enlarged in such a way as to increase its nonconformity;
      (2)   Replaced by another nonconforming sign or billboard;
      (3)   Relocated, unless it is made to conform with this code; or
      (4)   Subjected to damage in an amount exceeding 50% of their market
value.
   (B)   Whenever any of the above identified changes are made to a
nonconforming sign or billboard, the sign or billboard must thereafter meet the
requirements of this zoning code.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-17, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-4-18 SWIMMING POOLS.
   No public or private swimming pool in any district shall be located in any
required front yard; however, if not more than six feet in height, such use may
be located in any required side or rear yard, but not closer than ten feet to a
side lot line adjacent to a street, and subject to the provisions of §
40-4-3.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-18, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-19 TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   The parking of not more than one unoccupied camp trailer and/or motor home
in a side or rear yard or in a completely enclosed garage is hereby permitted,
provided that no living quarters or businesses shall be maintained in any such
camp trailer and/or utility trailer, and provided further that the parking of
any camp trailer and/or utility trailer shall comply with the yard requirements
for accessory buildings of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-19, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-4-20 TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS.
   A travel trailer park shall be permitted in a B-2 District only by special
use permit and shall comply with the appropriate subdivision regulations. The
plat plan shall include necessary services, such as water supply, community
bath houses, sewage disposal, and facilities for campers.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-20, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-4-21 COMMUNITY RESIDENCES.
   A COMMUNITY RESIDENCE is a group home housing eight or fewer adults with a
developmental disability who are unable to live independently but are capable
of community living if provided with an appropriate level of supervision,
assistance and support services. Community residences shall be a permitted use
in the R-4 Two-Family Dwelling District, provided they meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   All community residences must comply with all State of Illinois laws
and regulations.
   (B)   No community residence shall be closer than 1,000 feet to another
community residence.
   (C)   All community residences must meet the City Building Code square
footage requirements for occupants and all requirements of the city and State
of Illinois for fire safety.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-21, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1189, passed 5-21-2001)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-4-22 CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHT- OF-WAY.
   No public rights-of-way shall be obstructed.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-4-22, passed 7-20-1998)
FIGURE 1: RESTRICTED AREA
   Chapter 40 — Zoning Code
   40-4-2 Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3374e5ae76ef57ef4f40fd6b0698deca018b7949/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2703.jpg]
 
ARTICLE V: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT/COMMERCIAL SITE PLANS
Section
   
40-5-1   (Reserved)
   
40-5-2   Planned Unit Development C
   
40-5-3   Application for Planned Unit Development
   
40-5-4   Conditions of approval
   
40-5-5   Common land
   
40-5-6   Accessibility of common land
   
40-5-7   Structures
   
40-5-8   Conveyance of common areas
   
40-5-9   Changes in approved plans
   
40-5-10   Commercial site plans
§ 40-5-1 (RESERVED)
§ 40-5-2 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT C.
   The purpose of this section is to provide permissive, voluntary, and
alternative zoning procedures in all B Districts, in order to permit
flexibility of uses and design beyond that permitted in the particular
districts, under conditions of approved site, architecture, and development
plans. The final plan for the use and development of all such tract(s) of land
for any use or combination of uses permitted in §
40-2-3(B) and (C) must be approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-5-3 APPLICATION FOR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The owner or owners of a tract of land who wish to make application for a
planned unit development shall follow the procedures of Article IX established
for special use permits and shall comply with the requirements herein.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-5-4 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   The development plan shall not be approved except under the following
conditions:
   (A)   Assurance shall be required from the developer that the project wilt
be used for the specified purposes, and the Board of Appeals shall require a
trust indenture restricting the area to such uses.
   (B)   Commercial planned unit developments may make provisions for common
land by trust indenture.
   (C)   An acceptable site plan shall be presented, showing the area to be
developed for buildings, the location, size and number of buildings, the areas
and/or structures to be developed for common use, the areas and/or structures
to be developed for parking, the location of pedestrian and vehicular
circulation and the point of ingress and egress, including access street where
required, the provisions of spaces for loading, and adjustments to be made in
relation to abutting land uses and zoning districts.
   (D)   The developer shall be required to file with the Zoning Administrator
a guarantee to insure construction of the planned unit development, including
landscaping, in accordance with the development plan and with the requirements
of this code, in the form of a surety bond by an insurance company authorized
to do business in the State of Illinois, or by an irrevocable letter of credit
issued by a bank or trust company authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois, in such amount and upon such terms as may be reasonably required by
the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Applications for approval of planned unit developments designed in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be accompanied by all of
the necessary legal documentation relating to the conveyance of common areas as
provided for in §
40-5-8.
   (F)   Reasonable additional requirements as to landscaping, lighting,
screening, accessways, and building setbacks may be imposed by the Zoning Board
of Appeals for the protection of adjacent residential property.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-4, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1129, passed 2-7-2000)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-5-5 COMMON LAND.
   COMMON LAND is that land within a planned unit development that is held in
common ownership by all of the property owners or by any form of association of
property owners. The city shall not be responsible for the maintenance of any
common land in a planned unit development. Each owner of property within a
planned unit development, and the trust or association (if any) of property
owners, condominium association or like entity, shall be jointly and severally
liable for the maintenance and upkeep of common land in compliance with ail
ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-5-6 ACCESSIBILITY OF COMMON LAND.
   Common land shall be located so that it is reasonably accessible to all the
lots contributing to its area.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-6, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-5-7 STRUCTURES.
   The coverage of any tract of common land by buildings or structures shall
not exceed an aggregate of 10% of the area of the common land.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-7, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-5-8 CONVEYANCE OF COMMON AREAS.
   All open space, tree cover, recreational area, scenic vista, or other
authorized land use, the acreage of which is utilized to determine the common
land as herein provided, shall be conveyed by the developer in fee simple
absolute title by a warranty deed to trustees approved by the majority of
property owners. The trustees shall make provision by trust indenture for the
sole benefit, use, and enjoyment of the lot owners, present and future, of each
planned unit development authorized under the planned unit development
procedure, for a period of at least 20 years, or for the duration of the
development, whichever period of time is less. Thereafter, fee simple absolute
title shall vest in the then owners as tenants in common. The rights of the
tenants in common shall only be exercisable appurtenant to and in conjunction
with their lot ownership. Any conveyance or change of ownership of any lot
shall convey with it ownership in the common property. No lot owner has the
right to convey his or her interest in the common property, except as an
incident of the ownership of a regularly platted lot. The sale of any lot shall
carry with it all the incidents of ownership of the common property, although
such is not expressly mentioned in the deed; provided, however, that no right
or power conferred upon the trustees shall be abrogated. Warranty deeds and
trust indentures complying with the aforementioned provisions shall have
attached thereto a written legal opinion prepared and signed by an attorney
licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois, setting forth the attorney's
legal opinion as to the legal form and effect of the deeds and trust
indentures. The deeds and indentures shall be approved by the Planning
Commission, approved by the City Attorney as to legal form, and filed with the
Recorder of Deeds of Monroe County, simultaneously with the recording of the
final subdivision plat.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-8, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-5-9 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   No changes shall be made to any approved PUD development plan except as
follows:
   (A)   Minor changes, as so determined by the Planning Commission, if
required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the
final development plan was approved.
   (B)   All other changes shall require a special use permit.
   (C)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
Monroe County Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
development plan.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-5-9, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-5-10 COMMERCIAL SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Final site plans for the use and development of all tracts of land for
any commercial or public uses or combination of uses permitted in §
40-2-3(B) must be approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Condominium development plans for uses permitted in §
40-2-3(B) must be approved by the City Council. This requirement applies to
single- and multiple-lot condominium developments.
(Am. Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012)
ARTICLE VI: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING; LANDSCAPING
Section
   
40-6-1   Purpose
   
40-6-2   Scope and regulations
   
40-6-3   Existing parking and loading facilities
   
40-6-4   Damage or destruction
   
40-6-5   Control of off-site parking facilities
   
40-6-6   Size and access
   
40-6-7   Ingress and egress
   
40-6-8   Use of parking facilities
   
40-6-9   Joint parking facilities
   
40-6-10   Computation
   
40-6-11   Parking areas in yards
   
40-6-12   Design and maintenance
   
40-6-13   Location of accessory off-street parking facilities
   
40-6-14   Schedule of parking requirements
   
40-6-15   Mixed uses
   
40-6-16   Other uses: parking
   
40-6-17   Additional regulations: off-street loading
   
40-6-18   Schedule of loading requirements
   
40-6-19   Other uses: loading
   
40-6-20   Landscaping
§ 40-6-1 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the
public streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off-street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-2 SCOPE AND REGULATIONS.
   The off-street parking and loading provisions of this code shall apply as
follows:
   (A)   For all buildings and structures erected and all land uses established
after the effective date of this code, accessory parking and loading facilities
shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in which such
buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has been issued
prior to the effective date of this code, and provided that construction is
begun within one year of such effective date and diligently prosecuted to
completion, parking and loading facilities as required hereinafter need not be
provided.
   (B)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure, or premises
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity, or other units or measurement specified herein for required
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use.
   (C)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall hereafter
be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date of this code, additional parking or loading
facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements for the
new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were subject to
the parking and loading provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-2, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-3 EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   Accessory off-street parking or loading facilities which are located on the
same lot as the building or use served and which were in existence on the
effective date of this code or were provided voluntarily after such effective
date shall not hereafter be reduced below, or if already less than, shall not
further be reduced below the requirements of this code for a similar new
building or use.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-3, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-4 DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION.
   For any conforming building or use which is in existence on the effective
date of this code, which subsequent thereto is damaged or destroyed by fire,
collapse, explosion, or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished,
or repaired, off-street parking or loading facilities need not be provided,
except that parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the
time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation.
However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or
loading facilities in excess of those required by this code for equivalent new
uses or construction.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-5 CONTROL OF OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES.
   When required parking facilities are provided on land other than the zoning
lot on which the building or use served by such facilities is located, they
shall be and remain in the same possession or ownership as the zoning lot
occupied by the building or use to which the parking facilities are accessory.
No such off-site parking facilities shall be authorized and no occupancy permit
shall be issued where the plans call for parking facilities other than on the
same zoning lot until and unless the Zoning Board of Appeals has reviewed the
plans and heard the applicant and made findings that the common ownership or
possession of the zoning lot and the site of the parking facilities are
reasonably certain to continue, and that the off-site parking facilities will
be maintained at all times during the life of the proposed use or building.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-5, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-6 SIZE AND ACCESS.
   Requirements for parking spaces shall be as follows:
   (A)   Every parking space designed for one vehicle shall conform to the
requirements below and shall be designated by markings which clearly delineate
each space, and which are laid and restored as often as necessary to maintain
such delineation:
 Minimum Parking Space Width
                    Minimum Parking Space Width
90 degree parking   10 feet
60 degree parking   10 feet
Parallel parking    8 feet
Handicapped parking 16 feet
                    Minimum Parking Space Length
90 degree parking   18 feet
60 degree parking   18 feet
Parallel parking    20 feet
Handicapped parking 20 feet
                    Minimum Aisle Space
90 degree parking   22 feet
60 degree parking   20 feet
Parallel parking    22 feet
 
   (B)   Access to off-street parking areas in all residential R zones shall be
a minimum of ten feet wide except as follows:
      (1)   If a driveway is longer than 100 feet or serves more than the
required parking for four dwelling units, the minimum width shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Two driveways, each ten feet wide, may be provided in lieu of one
20-foot driveway, provided that a minimum distance of 22 feet be maintained
between the driveways at the top of the slope of driveway aprons.
   (C)   Access to off-street parking areas in all commercial and industrial
zones shall be not less than 24 feet nor more than 36 feet wide. Access points
to public rights-of-way shall not exceed one per 150 feet of frontage, up to a
maximum of four per zoning lot. Access points shall be not less than 50 feet
apart.
   (D)   Handicapped parking spaces:
Total Parking Spaces Provided Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Provided Required Minimum Number of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25                       1
26 to 50                      2
51 to 75                      3
76 to 100                     4
101 to 150                    5
151 to 200                    6
201 to 300                    7
301 to 400                    8
401 to 500                    9
501 to 1,000                  2% of total
More than 1,000               20 plus one for every 100 over 1,000
 
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-6, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-7 INGRESS AND EGRESS.
   All parking areas in any multiple-family, business, industrial or similar
use shall be designed or arranged so that no vehicle can have direct access to
or egress from any off-street parking space from a public right-of-way. In any
instance stated in this section, ingress to and egress from a parking space
shall be from an aisle, driveway, or similar arrangement, by forward motion of
the vehicle.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-7, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-8 USE OF PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities accessory to residential use in accordance
with the requirements of this section shall be used solely for the parking of
residentially related vehicles.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-8, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-9 JOINT PARKING FACILITIES.
   Off-street parking facilities for different buildings, structures, or uses,
or for mixed uses, may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted,
provided that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-9, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-10 COMPUTATION.
   When determination of the number of off-street parking spaces required by
this code results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-
half or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half shall
be counted as one parking space.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-10, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-11 PARKING AREAS IN YARDS.
   Off-street parking spaces in a residential district may be located in any
yards except front yard grass area.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-11, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-12 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Open and enclosed parking spaces. Accessory parking spaces located on
the same lot as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or enclosed
in a building. Accessory parking spaces located in a residence district
elsewhere than on the same lot occupied by the use served may be open to the
sky or enclosed in a building.
   (B)   Surfacing. Open off-street parking areas shall be improved with a
compacted gravel base not less than four inches thick and surfaced with one of
the following: (1) three inches of asphalt; (2) four inches of concrete; or (3)
in agricultural districts only, oil and chip. All off-street parking areas must
be constructed and completed within 60 days of first occupancy of any structure
on the lot.
   (C)   Screening and landscaping. In zone districts other than agricultural
and residential, all open off- street parking areas containing more than eight
parking spaces and driveways thereto shall be effectively screened on each side
adjoining any property situated in a residential district by a wall, fence, or
densely planted compact hedge not less than five feet in height. Any such
screening shall be maintained and replaced promptly as necessary to maintain
effective and aesthetically acceptable visual screening.
   (D)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance. Any appeals of direct lighting requirements or nuisance
complaints will be directed to and supervised by the City Council.
   (E)   Striping. All public parking stalls will be striped.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-12, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-13 LOCATION OF ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The location of off-street parking spaces in relation to the use
served shall be as prescribed hereinafter. All distances specified shall be
walking distances between such parking spaces and a main entrance to the use
served:
   (B)   For uses in residence districts. Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Spaces accessory to
uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or across a
street or alley which abuts the lot occupied by the use served, but in no case
at a distance in excess of 300 feet from such use.
   (C)   For uses in business and manufacturing districts. All required parking
spaces shall be within 1,000 feet of the use served, except that spaces
accessory to dwelling units, other than those located in a transient hotel,
shall be within 300 feet of the use served. However, no parking spaces
accessory to a use in a business or manufacturing district shall be located in
a residence district, except that private, free, off-street parking accessory
to such uses, and municipal parking lots may be allowed in a residential
district by special use permit in accordance with the provisions of Article IX
within 200 feet of and adjacent to any business or industrial district.
   (D)   If any building, structure, or use is enlarged or altered, the owner
of such use shall provide additional off-street parking and loading facilities,
as required by the provisions of this article.
   (E)   If the existing use of a lot, building or structure is changed to a
different use, the owner of such use shall provide off-street parking and
loading facilities as required by the provisions of this section.
   (F)   No accessway to any parking lot shall be located within 40 feet of any
corner formed by the intersection of the right-of-way of two or more streets;
provided, however, that when such an intersection is regulated by traffic
control devices, the Zoning Administrator may increase this requirement in
order to reduce traffic hazards.
   (G)   Curb cut permits for the purpose of providing ingress or egress are
subject to all applicable state, county and city requirements and approvals.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-13, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-14 SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the following uses, accessory off-street parking spaces shall be
provided as required hereinafter. Parking spaces required on an employee basis
shall be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or residing, or both,
on the premises at any one time.
Use Number of Parking Spaces
Use                                                                                Number of
                                                                                   Parking Spaces
(A)   Residential Uses
                                                                                   1 per 2 beds,
                                                                                   plus 1 per
                                                                                   employee on
   Assisted living                                                              the maximum
                                                                                   shift, plus 1
                                                                                   per 20 beds
                                                                                   for visitors.
   Condominium dwelling                                                         2 for each
                                                                                   dwelling unit.
                                                                                   1 for each
                                                                                   dwelling unit
   Lodging houses                                                               or lodging
                                                                                   room; 1 for
                                                                                   the owner or
                                                                                   manager.
                                                                                   1 for each
   Motels and motor hotels                                                      dwelling unit
                                                                                   or lodging
                                                                                   room.
   Multiple-family dwelling                                                     2 for each
                                                                                   dwelling unit.
   One-family dwelling                                                          2 for each
                                                                                   dwelling.
                                                                                   1 for each
                                                                                   lodging room;
                                                                                   in
                                                                                   dormitories,
                                                                                   every 100
   Private clubs, lodges and dormitories with sleeping facilities for guests    square feet
                                                                                   shall be
                                                                                   considered
                                                                                   equivalent to
                                                                                   a lodging
                                                                                   room.
                                                                                   1 per 2 beds,
                                                                                   plus 1 per
                                                                                   employee on
   Skilled nursing facility                                                     the maximum
                                                                                   shift, plus 1
                                                                                   per 20 beds
                                                                                   for visitors
   Two-family dwelling                                                          2 for each
                                                                                   dwelling unit.
(B)   Retail and Services Uses
                                                                                   5 stacking
                                                                                   spaces for
                                                                                   each wash
                                                                                   rack, an exit
   Automobile car wash                                                          lane around
                                                                                   the stacking
                                                                                   space area,
                                                                                   plus 1 parking
                                                                                   space per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees.
                                                                                   1 parking
   Automobile service stations                                                  space per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees.
                                                                                   4 parking
                                                                                   spaces for
                                                                                   each alley,
                                                                                   plus such
                                                                                   additional
                                                                                   spaces as may
   Bowling alleys                                                               be required
                                                                                   herein for
                                                                                   affiliated
                                                                                   uses, such as
                                                                                   bars,
                                                                                   restaurants,
                                                                                   and the like.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
   Self-service laundries                                                       every 2
                                                                                   washing
                                                                                   machines.
                                                                                   Minimum of 10
                                                                                   spaces plus 5
                                                                                   stacking
                                                                                   spaces per
   Drive-in and drive-through restaurants                                       customer
                                                                                   service window
                                                                                   and an exit
                                                                                   lane from the
                                                                                   stacking space
                                                                                   area.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 5 seats,
                                                                                   or for every
                                                                                   65 square feet
                                                                                   of floor area
   Establishments dispensing food or beverages for consumption on the premises  used for
                                                                                   assembly or
                                                                                   seating
                                                                                   purposes,
                                                                                   whichever
                                                                                   gives the
                                                                                   greater number
                                                                                   of spaces.
                                                                                   1 parking
   Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture, repair     space for
stores                                                                          every 600
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   floor area.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
   Motor vehicle sales and machinery sales                                      every 300
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   floor area.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees,
                                                                                   plus spaces
                                                                                   adequate in
                                                                                   number, as
   Municipal or privately-owned recreation building or community centers        determined by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals, to
                                                                                   serve the
                                                                                   visiting
                                                                                   public.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 300
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   floor area;
                                                                                   drive-in banks
                                                                                   or other
                                                                                   similar drive-
                                                                                   in
   Retail stores and banks                                                      establishments
                                                                                   shall provide
                                                                                   4 stacking
                                                                                   spaces per
                                                                                   teller or
                                                                                   customer
                                                                                   service window
                                                                                   and an exit
                                                                                   lane from the
                                                                                   stacking space
                                                                                   area.
(B)   Retail and Services Uses (Cont'd)
                                                                                   1 parking
   Theaters (indoor)                                                            space for
                                                                                   every 5 seats.
                                                                                   At least 10
                                                                                   stacking
                                                                                   spaces or at
   Theaters, automobile drive-in                                                least 8 for
                                                                                   each entrance
                                                                                   at the ticket
                                                                                   booths.
                                                                                   6 parking
                                                                                   spaces for
                                                                                   each chapel or
                                                                                   parlor, plus 1
   Undertaking establishments, funeral parlors                                  parking space
                                                                                   for each
                                                                                   funeral
                                                                                   vehicle kept
                                                                                   on the
                                                                                   premises.
(C)   Office Uses
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
   Business, professional and governmental offices                              every 300
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   floor area.
(D)   Industrial Uses
   (1)   Industrial uses of all types, except warehousing and transportation
terminals, less than 250,000 square feet of gross area:
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees on
                                                                                   maximum shift,
                                                                                   or not less
                                                                                   than 1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 500
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   gross floor
                                                                                   area; when
                                                                                   more than one
                                                                                   shift is
      Employee parking                                                       employed,
                                                                                   parking for
                                                                                   both shifts
                                                                                   shall be
                                                                                   provided,
                                                                                   unless
                                                                                   sufficient
                                                                                   time is
                                                                                   allowed
                                                                                   between shifts
                                                                                   to provide for
                                                                                   the maximum
                                                                                   use of the
                                                                                   required
                                                                                   parking.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 25
                                                                                   employees on
                                                                                   main shift,
      Visitor parking                                                        with a minimum
                                                                                   of 2 parking
                                                                                   spaces and a
                                                                                   maximum of 20
                                                                                   required
                                                                                   visitor
                                                                                   spaces.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space to
                                                                                   accommodate
                                                                                   each company-
                                                                                   owned or
                                                                                   leased truck
                                                                                   or vehicle
                                                                                   usually found
      Company vehicles                                                       on the
                                                                                   premises; size
                                                                                   of parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   trucks shall
                                                                                   be approved by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals.
   (2)   Industrial uses of all types, except warehousing and transportation
terminals, more than 250,000 square feet of gross floor area.
                                                                                   One parking
                                                                                   space per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees
                                                                                   on-site at
                                                                                   maximum shift,
                                                                                   or not less
                                                                                   than 1 for
                                                                                   every 500
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   gross floor
                                                                                   area for the
                                                                                   first 250,000
      Employee parking                                                       square feet;
                                                                                   then 1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 1,000
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   floor area;
                                                                                   except where a
                                                                                   reduction in
                                                                                   the required
                                                                                   parking is
                                                                                   approved by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 25
                                                                                   employees on
                                                                                   main shifts,
                                                                                   with a minimum
      Visitor parking                                                        of 2 parking
                                                                                   spaces and a
                                                                                   maximum of 20
                                                                                   required
                                                                                   visitor
                                                                                   parking
                                                                                   spaces.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space to
                                                                                   accommodate
                                                                                   each company-
                                                                                   owned or
                                                                                   leased truck
                                                                                   or vehicle
      Company vehicles                                                       usually found
                                                                                   on the
                                                                                   premises; size
                                                                                   of parking
                                                                                   spaces shall
                                                                                   be approved by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals.
   (3)   Warehousing
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 1,000
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   gross floor
                                                                                   area or 1
                                                                                   parking space
                                                                                   per 1-1/
                                                                                   2 employees,
                                                                                   whichever is
                                                                                   greater;
                                                                                   whenever all
                                                                                   or any portion
                                                                                   of a warehouse
                                                                                   area, facility
                                                                                   or building is
                                                                                   proposed to be
                                                                                   converted,
                                                                                   remodeled, or
      Employee parking                                                       changed to a
                                                                                   non-
                                                                                   warehousing
                                                                                   use, the
                                                                                   number of
                                                                                   parking spaces
                                                                                   required by
                                                                                   this section
                                                                                   for the
                                                                                   intended use
                                                                                   shall be
                                                                                   secured and
                                                                                   provided for
                                                                                   prior to
                                                                                   conversion of
                                                                                   use or
                                                                                   remodeling of
                                                                                   the warehouse
                                                                                   facility or
                                                                                   building.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space to
                                                                                   accommodate
                                                                                   each company-
                                                                                   owned or
                                                                                   leased truck
                                                                                   or vehicle
                                                                                   usually found
      Company vehicles                                                       on the
                                                                                   premises; size
                                                                                   of parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   trucks shall
                                                                                   be approved by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals.
   (4)   Transportation or trucking yard terminals
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space for
                                                                                   every 1,000
                                                                                   square feet of
                                                                                   warehousing,
                                                                                   shop area, or
                                                                                   loading area
      Employee parking                                                       and 1 parking
                                                                                   space for each
                                                                                   driver of a
                                                                                   company
                                                                                   vehicle which
                                                                                   is dispatched
                                                                                   from said
                                                                                   terminal.
                                                                                   1 parking
                                                                                   space to
                                                                                   accommodate
                                                                                   each company-
                                                                                   owned or
                                                                                   leased truck
                                                                                   or vehicle
                                                                                   usually found
      Company vehicles                                                       on the
                                                                                   premises; size
                                                                                   of parking
                                                                                   spaces for
                                                                                   trucks shall
                                                                                   be approved by
                                                                                   the Zoning
                                                                                   Board of
                                                                                   Appeals.
 
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-14, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1491, passed 9-2-2008; Am.
Ord. 1591, passed 1-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. 1673,
passed 11-17-2014) Penalty, see §
1-1-19
§ 40-6-15 MIXED USES.
   When two or more uses are located on the same zoning lot or within the same
building, parking spaces equal in number to the sum of the separate
requirements for each such use shall be provided. No parking space or portion
thereof shall serve as a required space for more than one use unless otherwise
authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-15, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-16 OTHER USES: PARKING.
   For uses not listed heretofore in the schedule of parking requirements in §
40-6-14, parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required for the
most similar listed uses, or as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-16, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS: OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   Location. All permitted or required loading berths shall be located on
the same zoning lot as the use served and shall not be located within 25 feet
of the intersection of any two streets. Loading berths for vehicles over two-
ton capacity shall not be closer than 50 feet to any property in a residence
district, unless completely enclosed by building walls, or a solid fence or
wall not less than six feet in height.
   (B)   Size. Unless otherwise specified, a required loading berth shall be at
least ten feet in width by at least 25 feet in length, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least 14 feet.
   (C)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley, in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements.
   (D)   Surfacing, All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted gravel base, not less than six inches thick, surfaced with not less
than four inches of concrete or asphalt (in two lifts each, two inches thick).
   (E)   Repair and service. No motor vehicle repair work or service of any
kind shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
residence or business district.
   (F) Not for parking. Space allocated to any off- street loading berth shall
not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-
street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   (G)   Special use. For special uses other than prescribed for hereinafter,
loading berths, adequate in number and size to serve such use, as determined by
the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall be provided.
   (H)   Below minimum floor area. Uses for which off-street loading facilities
are required herein but which are located in buildings of less floor area than
the minimum for which such facilities are required shall be provided with
adequate receiving facilities.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-17, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-6-18 SCHEDULE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   For the uses listed in the following table, off- street loading berths shall
be provided on the basis of gross floor area of building or portions thereof
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown herein.
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Per Building Loading Spaces Required
Total Square Feet of Gross Floor Area Per Building Loading Spaces Required
Commercial and industrial buildings
   3,000 to 20,000                              1
   20,000 to 50,000                             2
   50,000 and over                              3
Hospitals, institutions, and office buildings
   10,000 to 50,000                             1
   50,000 and over                              2
 
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-18, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-19 OTHER USES: LOADING.
   For uses not listed herein, loading berths adequate in number and size to
serve such uses, as determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall be
provided.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-19, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
§ 40-6-20 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and
trash, and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains 20 or more parking spaces. A minimum of 5% of the total parking lot
area shall be set aside for said landscaping. In meeting the landscaping
requirement, any landscaped area surrounding the parking lot shall not be used
to meet the 5% requirement.
   (B)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a more
inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for an initial
certificate of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain
20 or more spaces.
   (C)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Proposed type, amount, size, and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery, and ground cover;
      (2)   Proposed size, construction materials, and drainage of landscaped
islands or planting beds; and
      (3)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation, and pedestrian movement.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-6-20, passed 7-20-1998)
Penalty, see § 1-1-19
ARTICLE VII: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
Section
   
40-7-1   Creation
   
40-7-2   Meetings
   
40-7-3   Appeals
   
40-7-4   Powers and duties
   
40-7-5   Procedure
   
40-7-6   Application fees
   
40-7-7   (Reserved)
   
40-7-8   Compensation of Board Members
§ 40-7-1 CREATION.
   The “Board”, when used in this section, shall be construed to mean Board of
Zoning Appeals. The Board shall consist of seven members appointed by the Mayor
by and with the consent of the City Council. The terms of office shall be five
years. The Chairman of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor with consent
of the City Council and shall hold office until his or her term of appointment
expires, or is otherwise terminated.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-7-2 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairman or any two members, or at such times as the Board may determine. All
hearings conducted by said Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or in absence or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall
also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact
shall be included in the minutes of each case of a requested variation, special
permit or planned building development and the reason for granting or denying
such application shall be specified. Every rule or regulation, every amendment
or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement and interpretation, decision or
determination of the Board shall be filed immediately in the office of the
Board and shall be a public record. The Board shall adopt its own rules and
procedures, not in conflict with this code or with Illinois statutes.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-7-3 APPEALS.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board by any person, firm or
corporation; or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by the
decision of the Zoning Administrator. Such appeal shall betaken within such
time as shall be prescribed by the Board by general rule, by filing with the
Zoning Administrator a notice of appeal to the Board of Appeals, specifying the
grounds of the appeal. The Zoning Administrator shall thereupon transmit to the
Board all papers constituting the appeal and the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken. An appeal shall stay all proceedings and furtherance
of action appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that by reason of
fact stated in the certificate, the stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceeding will not be
stayed otherwise than by a court of record. The Board shall select a reasonable
time and place for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the
parties and shall render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay.
Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm wholly or
partially, or may modify or amend the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from and to the extent and in the manner that the Board
may decide to be reasonable and proper, subject to the provisions of §§
40-1-2 and
40-7-4. Any decision of the Board is subject to judicial review.
   (B)   In considering all appeals, requests and applications, the Board of
Appeals shall first determine that the proposed change will not constitute a
change in the district boundaries or zoning map, and will not constitute a
variation in use.
   (C)   The decision of the Board of Appeals shall be made a part of any
building permit in which variation is allowed.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-7-4 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by law and
by this code, including the following:
      (1)   Interpretation. Upon an appeal from any order, requirement,
decision or determination by any administrative official, to decide any
question involving the interpretation of any provision or term of this code.
      (2)   Area-bulk variance. To vary the strict application of the
requirements of this code in the case of an exceptionally irregular, narrow,
shallow, or steep lot or other exceptional physical condition, whereby such
strict application would result in such practical difficulty and/or unnecessary
hardship, but not a hardship caused or imposed by the owner, as would deprive
the owner of the reasonable use of the land or building involved, but in no
other case. In granting any area-bulk variance, the Board shall prescribe
conditions that it deems necessary and reasonable for the public interest,
convenience, or welfare; and
      (3)   Grant special use permits. To grant special use permits as provided
in Article IX of this code.
   (B)   However, no area-bulk variance shall be granted in any case unless the
Board of Appeals finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions as fully
described in the findings, applying to the land or buildings for which the
variance is sought, which circumstances or conditions are peculiar to such land
or buildings and do not apply generally to the land or buildings in the
neighborhood, that such circumstances or conditions are such that strict
application of the provisions of this code would deprive the applicant of a
reasonable use of such land or building, and that such circumstances or
conditions were not caused by the owner;
      (2)   That for reasons fully set forth in the findings, the granting of
the variances is necessary for the reasonable use of land or buildings, and
that the variance is the minimum variance that will accomplish this purpose;
and
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this code, and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. In addition to
considering the character and use of adjoining buildings and those in the
vicinity, the Board, in making its findings, shall take into account whether
the condition of the subject premises is peculiar to the lot or tract described
in the petition or is merely part of the general condition of the neighborhood.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-7-5 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall act in accordance with the procedure
specified by law and by this code. Four members shall constitute a quorum and,
except as otherwise provided by this Code, an affirmative vote of at least four
members shall be necessary to authorize any action of the Board. All appeals
and applications to the Board shall be in writing. Every appeal or application
shall refer to the specific provision of this code involved, and shall exactly
set forth the interpretation that is claimed, the use for which the variance or
special permit is sought, or the details of the variance that is applied for
and the grounds on which it is claimed that the variance should be granted, as
the case may be.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall submit the entire record and a
written decision explaining the action taken on a special use permit petition
before the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. At that meeting, the
City Council will either affirm or reverse the decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. The decision of the City Council shall be based only upon the record
from the Zoning Board of Appeals hearing.
   (C)   Notice and hearing. No action of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
taken on any case or any advisory report made on any case unless a hearing has
been held with respect thereto after public notice thereof given in the
following manner:
      (1)   A notice of the time, date and place of said hearing and a brief
statement of the proposed amendment, variance or special use permit shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city, at least 15
days before the hearing. The notice shall contain the particular location of
the real estate, if any, which is the subject of the hearing, by permanent
parcel number and street address, and if no street address, then by locating
such real estate with reference to any well-known landmark, highway, road,
thoroughfare or intersection; whether or not the petitioner or applicant is
acting for himself or in the capacity of agent or representative of a
principal, and stating the name and address of the actual and true principal;
whether petitioner or applicant is a corporation and, if a corporation, the
current names and addresses of all officers and directors, and of all
stockholders or shareholders owning any interest in excess of 20% of all
outstanding stock of such corporation; whether the petitioner or applicant, or
his or her principal if other than applicant, is a business if other than
applicant, is a business or entity doing business under any assumed name, and,
if so, the name and residence of all true and actual owners of such business or
entity; whether the petitioner or applicant is a partnership, joint venture,
syndicate or an unincorporated voluntary association and, if so, the names and
addresses of all partners, joint venturers, syndicate members or members of the
unincorporated voluntary association.
      (2)   In addition to the publication of said notice required hereinabove,
the Zoning Administrator, at the applicant's expense, shall, at least 15 days
before the hearing is scheduled, serve a copy of such notice, by certified
mail, return receipt requested, on the owners, as recorded in the office of the
Monroe County Recorder of Deeds, and as appears from the authentic tax records
of Monroe County, of all property abutting the property affected by the
amendment, variance or special use permit; provided the area occupied by all
public roads, streets, alleys and other public ways shall be excluded in
determining the location of abutting property. The Zoning Administrator shall
furnish the Board of Appeals proof of service of the notice required in this
section before a hearing on any application for an amendment, variance or
special use permit is conducted. If, after a bona fide effort to determine the
address of the abutting property owner, the owner of the property on which the
notice is served cannot be found at his or her last known address, or the
mailed notice is returned because the owner cannot be found at the last known
address, or if the owner fails to pick-up the mailed notice from the Post
Office, the notice requirements of this division (2) shall be deemed satisfied.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-5, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1483, passed 7-7-2008; Am.
Ord. 1774, passed 3-4-2019; Am. Ord. 1830, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 40-7-6 APPLICATION FEES.
   The party filing a notice of appeal to the Board of Appeals shall pay a fee
at the time of filing. An additional fee to cover the cost incurred for any
required public notice shall also be paid by the applicant. Fees shall be paid
to the city and deposited with the Collector/Budget Officer.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-6, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-7-7 (RESERVED)
§ 40-7-8 COMPENSATION OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The Chairman and each member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall receive
compensation equal to that of the Planning Commission unless otherwise provided
for by the City Council.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-7-8, passed 7-20-1998)
ARTICLE VIII: AMENDMENTS
Section
   
40-8-1   General
   
40-8-2   Application for amendment
   
40-8-3   Advisory reports
   
40-8-4   Procedure of Planning Commission
   
40-8-5   (Reserved)
   
40-8-6   Procedure of Board of Appeals
   
40-8-7   Public hearing
   
40-8-8   Procedure before City Council
§ 40-8-1 GENERAL.
   The City Council may, from time to time, on its own motion, on petition of
any person in interest, or on initial recommendations of the Board of Appeals
or Planning Commission, amend, supplement, or repeal by ordinance the
regulations or provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-2 APPLICATION FOR AMENDMENT.
   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, in such form and accompanied by such information as required by
the Zoning Administrator and by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-3 ADVISORY REPORTS.
   Any proposed amendment or change, when initiated by the City Council or by
individual petition, shall be referred to the Planning Commission and the Board
of Appeals for advisory reports thereon.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-4 PROCEDURE OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall make its advisory report to the Board of
Appeals no later than 60 days after receipt of the amendment. If no report is
received within 60 days, the amendment shall be considered recommended by the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-5 (RESERVED)
§ 40-8-6 PROCEDURE OF BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Before giving an advisory report or an initial recommendation on any
proposed amendment, the Board of Appeals shall first conduct a public hearing
after notice as set forth in §
40-7-5(C).
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-6, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-7 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The hearing shall be conducted and a record of such proceedings shall be
preserved in such manner as the Board of Appeals shall, by rule, prescribe from
time to time. Within ten days following the hearing, the Board of Appeals shall
file a report of the hearing and its advisory report with the City Council,
accompanied by the advisory reports of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-7, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-8-8 PROCEDURE BEFORE CITY COUNCIL.
   After receiving the advisory reports, the City Council shall act on the
reports in accordance with its regular procedure. After approval, the amendment
ordinance shall be published in a local newspaper or in pamphlet form as
required by law.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-8-8, passed 7-20-1998)
ARTICLE IX: SPECIAL USE PERMIT
Section
   
40-9-1   Purpose
   
40-9-2   Procedure
   
40-9-3   Application
   
40-9-4   Planning Commission advisory report
   
40-9-5   (Reserved)
   
40-9-6   Board of Appeals
   
40-9-7   Conditions
   
40-9-8   Expansion of use
   
40-9-9   Changes
   
40-9-10   Issuance or revocation of permit
   
40-9-11   Permit to run with land or owner
§ 40-9-1 PURPOSE.
   This code divides the entire city into zoning districts, and in each
district there are mutually compatible uses which are permitted. The code
recognizes, however, that other uses may be necessary or desirable, but their
potential influence on permitted uses could be harmful. For this reason, they
are classed as special uses and may be permitted only under certain conditions.
These special uses may be public or private uses. If a use is not listed as a
special use within the zoning district, then an amendment shall be required.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-1, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1187, passed 5-7-2001; Am.
Ord. 1333, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 40-9-2 PROCEDURE.
   A special use permit may be granted by the Board of Appeals in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this Article IX.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-3 APPLICATION.
   Application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator and he or she shall
transmit copies of the application to the Planning Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals. Those applicants wishing to subdivide the land shall comply with
the subdivision regulations. Other applicants shall supply the information
required by this code, the building permit form, or as requested by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-4 PLANNING COMMISSION ADVISORY REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall submit an advisory report directly to the
Zoning Board of Appeals prior to the Zoning Board’s next regularly scheduled
meeting. All advisory reports shall consider at least the following:
   (A)   The effect the proposal would have on the city's Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   The effect the proposal would have on the health, welfare, safety,
morals and comfort of area residents;
   (C)   The effect the proposal would have on schools, traffic, streets,
shopping, public utilities and adjacent properties;
   (D)   The provisions of Article V, when applicable;
   (E)   Any other legal requirements or considerations.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-5 (RESERVED)
§ 40-9-6 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall follow the hearing requirements of §
40-7-5.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-6, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-7 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No special use may be granted by the Board unless it finds that the
special use:
      (1)   Is necessary for the public convenience at that location or, in the
case of existing nonconforming uses, that a special use permit will make the
use more compatible with its surroundings;
      (2)   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety, and welfare will be protected;
      (3)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located; and
      (4)   Will not be detrimental to the essential character of the district
in which it is located.
   (B)   In the case of planned unit development, the additional provisions of
Article V shall be complied with.
   (C)   The Board may provide such conditions or restriction upon the
construction, location, and operation of the special use, including but not
limited to provisions for the protection of adjacent property, the expiration
of said special use after a specified period of time, or off-street parking and
loading, as shall be deemed necessary to promote the general intent and purpose
of this code, and to reduce potential injury to the value of property in the
neighborhood.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-7, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-8 EXPANSION OF USE.
   Any expansion of a special use involving the enlargement of the buildings,
structures, and land area devoted to such use shall be subject to the
procedures set forth in this Article IX.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-8, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-9 CHANGES.
   After a permit has been issued, minor changes in a developmental plan may be
made upon application to the Board of Appeals. Major changes in the
developmental plan require total review and re- application.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-9, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-9-10 ISSUANCE OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Every special use permit granted shall be accompanied by a finding of
fact specifying the reason for granting such special use permit.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals may revoke a permit issued under this article if:
      (1)   The proposal for which a permit has been issued is not carried out
pursuant to the approved final site plan;
      (2)   If any condition or requirement included in the permit is not
complied with. The Board of Appeals may, however, allow modification of the
final plan, before completion, in conformity with the application provisions
for review as provided for in this Article IX; or
      (3)   If after a period of two years, no action, construction, or permit
has been issued on behalf of the applicant, the special use permit will be
considered to have expired. All outstanding special use permits that have been
issued prior to the passage date of Ord. 1775, shall have a period of two years
to take action, construct, or apply for a permit, before that special use
permit shall be considered expired also; however, the applicant may apply, at
no cost, for a one time, one-year extension.
   (C)   After receiving the hearing record and decision on a petition for
special use permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals, the City Council shall act
in accordance with §
40-7-5(B).
(Ord. 1070, § 40-9-10, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1775, passed 3-4-2019; Am.
Ord. 1830, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 40-9-11 PERMIT TO RUN WITH LAND OR OWNER.
   A special use permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this article
shall run with the land, except in cases in which the Board places conditions
on the permit stating otherwise.
(Ord. 1853, passed 7-5-2022)
ARTICLE X: NONCONFORMITIES
Section
   
40-10-1   Continuation
   
40-10-2   Change or extension of nonconforming use
   
40-10-3   Abandonment or discontinuance
   
40-10-4   Repairs, maintenance, improved livability and enlargement
   
40-10-5   Restoration of nonconforming use
   
40-10-6   Conversion to special use
   
40-10-7   Restrictions on right to use off-street parking facilities accessory
to residential use
§ 40-10-1 CONTINUATION.
   (A)   Any lawful building, structure, or use existing at the time of the
enactment of this code may be continued, even though such building, structure,
or use does not conform to the provisions of this code for the district in
which it is located, and whenever a district shall be changed hereafter, the
then existing lawful use may be continued, subject to the provisions of this
Article X.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of this Article X, any legal nonconforming
building may be continued in use, provided there are no enlargements that
increase its encroachment, except when the enlargements are required by law.
   (C)   Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date of this code, or of amendments hereto, may be completed in
accordance with the approved plans, provided construction is started within 180
days and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building shall be thereafter
deemed to be a lawfully established building.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-1, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-2 CHANGE OR EXTENSION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed or extended only by a special use
permit. The regulations established in Article IX, Special Use Permit, must be
followed.
   (B)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to a use which conforms less
to the regulations of the district in which it is located. (Example: An
existing grocery store in a residential zone district could be changed into an
apartment house but not a warehouse. Reason: Because a warehouse is considered
more detrimental to a residential neighborhood than a grocery store and thus
conforms less to the zone district regulations.)
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-2, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-3 ABANDONMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE.
   When any nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of 12
consecutive months, such use shall not thereafter be resumed, and any future
use of the premises shall conform with the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-3, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-4 REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE, IMPROVED LIVABILITY AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   Ordinary repairs, maintenance, and improved livability of a
nonconforming building shall not be deemed an extension of such nonconforming
building and shall be permitted.
   (B)   No such structure shall be enlarged in the way that increases its
encroachment, except as otherwise provided in this code.
   (C)   Subsequent to the date of this code, nothing contained in this code
shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing, rebuilding, and then continued use
of any nonconforming building or structure returned to its original layout
after being damaged by fire, explosion, or acts of God.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-4, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-5 RESTORATION OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is
damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of 50% or more of its value at
the time, the building or other structure can be rebuilt or used thereafter
only for a conforming use and in compliance with the provisions of the district
in which it is located. In the event the damage or destruction is less than 50%
of its value, based upon the prevailing costs, the building may then be
restored to its original condition and the occupancy or use of such building
may be continued which existed at the time of such partial destruction.
   (B)   In the event that the Zoning Administrator's estimate of the extent of
damage or fair market value is not acceptable to the applicant for the building
permit to repair or reconstruct such building or structure, the applicant may
appeal to the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   In any event, restoration or repair of the building or other structure
must be started within a period of six months from the date of damage or
destruction and diligently prosecuted to completion.
   (D)   A building permit may be issued by the city if the subject matter
thereof is otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Article X, provided
that the Zoning Administrator may impose such conditions and requirements to
the issuance of the permit as are reasonably necessary to promote compatibility
of the nonconforming use or building with its immediate neighborhood and to
protect adjacent property from any adverse effects of the nonconforming use.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-5, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-6 CONVERSION TO SPECIAL USE.
   A nonconforming use may be made a special use by granting a special use
permit in conformity with the provisions of Article IX.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-6, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 40-10-7 RESTRICTIONS ON RIGHT TO USE OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES ACCESSORY
TO RESIDENTIAL USE.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Article X or this code, any
pre-existing rights to continue to park vehicles other than residentially-
related vehicles on off-street parking facilities and driveways in Zone
Districts R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 shall expire and terminate on December 31,
1998.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-10-7, passed 7-20-1998)
ARTICLE XI: BUILDING PERMIT AND CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE
Section
   
40-11-1   Building permit
   
40-11-2   Plat plan and condominium requirements
   
40-11-3   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
40-11-4   Excavation
§ 40-11-1 BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building or structure shall be erected, enlarged or altered until a
permit has been issued by the city. No such building permit shall be issued for
any building or structure where said construction, enlargement, or alteration
or use thereof would be in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
Further, the issuance of any building permit by the city which involves aspects
regulated by this zoning code shall require the approval of the Zoning
Administrator, whose decision with respect thereto shall be subject to review
and modification or change by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-11-1, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1234, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 40-11-2 PLAT PLAN AND CONDOMINIUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be submitted with all applications for building permits of
buildings or structures one copy of a layout or plat plan drawn to scale,
showing actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon, the exact size and
location on the lot of the building and accessory buildings to be erected, and
such other information as may be necessary to determine and provide for the
enforcement of this zoning code.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of division (A) above, there shall be
submitted with all applications for building permits for condominium dwellings:
      (1)   The recorded declarations of a condominium association and plat of
survey; or
      (2)   A writing indicating the intent to file and submit the declarations
and plat of survey as well as a written acknowledgment that an occupancy permit
will not be issued until the declarations are submitted.
   (C)   In addition to other requirements in this code, there shall be
submitted the recorded declarations of the condominium association and plat of
survey before an occupancy permit to the dwelling will be granted.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-11-2, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1483, passed 7-7-2008; Am.
Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40-11-3 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No change in the use of land, nor any change of use in an existing building
shall be made, until a Certificate of Zoning Compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-11-3, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1483, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 40-11-4 EXCAVATION.
   No permit for excavation shall be issued before the application has been
made and approved.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-11-4, passed 7-20-1998)
ARTICLE XII: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
40-12-1   Minimum dwelling unit size
   
40-12-2   Additional provisions
   
40-12-3   Minimum area for usable recreational space
§ 40-12-1 MINIMUM DWELLING UNIT SIZE.
   (A)   In R-1 Single-Family Residence Zoning Districts, the minimum dwelling
unit size for any type of dwelling shall be 1,800 square feet of living area.
   (B)   In R-2 Single-Family Residence Zoning Districts, the minimum dwelling
unit size for any type of dwelling shall be 1,400 square feet of living area.
   (C)   (1)   In all other zoning districts, the minimum dwelling unit size
shall be 1,000 square feet of living area for residences, including one-family
and two-family dwellings and 750 square feet of living area for apartment
units. The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a variance to not less than 800
square feet of living area for residences, including one-family and two-family
dwellings, if the requested variance:
         (a)   Is compatible with the surrounding area;
         (b)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of the other
property in the neighborhood in which it is located;
         (c)   Will not be detrimental to the essential character of the
district in which it is located;
         (d)   Is necessary for the reasonable use of the land; and
         (e)   Is the minimum variance that will allow the reasonable use of
the land.
      (2)   In granting such a variance, the Board may provide such conditions
as it deems necessary and reasonable for the public interest, convenience or
welfare.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-7, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1179, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 40-12-2 ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any attached accessory building shall be considered as a part of the
principal building.
   (B)   Established single-family and two-family residential uses established
in the “B” Districts shall comply with all the regulations of the least
restrictive residential district in which that type of residential use is
permitted.
   (C)   A lot of record on the effective date of this code which is at least
5,000 square feet may be improved with a dwelling unit if all other
requirements of the code are met.
   (D)   A lot of record below 5,000 square feet may be improved with a
dwelling only if special use permit is granted.
   (E)   (1)   More than one industrial, business, or multiple-dwelling
building may be erected upon a single lot or tract, but the yards and open
spaces shall require 20-foot separations between such buildings and shall not
encroach upon district setbacks and shall meet all requirements of this code.
      (2)   More than one detached single-unit or multi-unit condominium
dwelling building may be erected upon a single lot or tract only in Zone
District R-6, but the yards and open spaces shall require 15-foot separations
between such buildings in the case of single-unit buildings, and 20-foot
separations in the case of multi-unit buildings. The location of buildings
shall not encroach upon district setbacks and shall meet all requirements of
this code.
   (F)   Portable buildings and/or tents may only be erected for a total of 20
days per year.
   (G)   Temporary weather enclosures.
      (1)   Temporary enclosures for weather protection at entrances to
commercial businesses without vestibules are permitted, on an annual basis
between November 1 and March 31, by special use permit.
      (2)   The weather enclosure must comply with all applicable ADA and local
codes and must be structurally sound.
      (3)   Material used must be commercial grade, fire retardant, made
specifically for this use, and blue, green, brown or black in color to
compliment the building.
      (4)   The structure may not extend into an easement or right-of-way.
      (5)   No signs are permitted on the temporary enclosure.
      (6)   Temporary enclosures must be maintained properly as a condition of
the special use permit, and must be inspected annually by the city.
      (7)   All supporting frameworks for the temporary enclosure must be
removed between April 1 and October 31 of each year.
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-8, passed 7-20-1998; Am. Ord. 1293, § 40-12-8, passed 4-19-
2004; Am. Ord. 1504, passed 3-16-2009; Am. Ord. 1621, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 40-12-3 MINIMUM AREA FOR USABLE RECREATIONAL SPACE.
   Minimum area to be reserved for usable recreation space per dwelling unit
shall be limited to 300 square feet in the R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 zoning
districts
(Ord. 1070, § 40-12-9, passed 7-20-1998)
ARTICLE XIII: WATERLOO CENTRAL OVERLAY DISTRICT
Section
   
40-13-1   Geographic area
   
40-13-2   Zoning classification
   
40-13-3   Regulations
   
40-13-4   Procedure
§ 40-13-1 GEOGRAPHIC AREA.
   The Waterloo Central Overlay District shall consist of that part of the city
as depicted upon the Waterloo Central Overlay District Map and as described in
the Waterloo Central Overlay District Perimeter Description.
(Ord. 1333, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 40-13-2 ZONING CLASSIFICATION.
   The zoning of the premises located in the Waterloo Central Overlay District
shall be R-1, R-2, R-3, R-5, B-2, B-3, and I-1 as depicted upon the Waterloo
Central Overlay District Map and as described in the legal descriptions for B-
2-1, B-3-1, I-1-1, R-1-1, R-2-1, R-2-2, R-3-1, R-3-2, R-3-3, R-5-1, R-5-2, and
R-5-3 zoning.
(Ord. 1333, passed 4-25-2005)
§ 40-13-3 REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations apply only to those premises within the Waterloo
Central Overlay District other than the R-1 zoned area:
   (A)   An existing nonconforming structure may be replaced by a new structure
for the same use, provided the new structure is not less conforming to the
requirements of this code.
   (B)   In a B-3 or I-1 zoned district, an existing nonconforming structure
may be made larger or replaced by another nonconforming structure only with
approval of the City Council, provided utilities are not affected.
   (C)   In residential zoned districts, an existing nonconforming structure
may be made larger or replaced by another nonconforming structure which extends
further along the existing or prolonged nonconforming building line, but no
closer to the property line, only with approval of the City Council and
provided utilities are not affected. The Zoning Administrator shall give
written notice to all adjoining property owners of such application and shall
certify that he or she has done so.
   (D)   Uses in addition to those listed in §
40-2-3(B), which are compatible in the judgment of the City Council, may be
approved by the City Council for specific sides within the B-3, Central
Business District, and I-1, Light Industrial, zoned areas; and within the R-3,
Single-Family Dwelling, zoned district on Park Street only:
      (1)   The particular site (building) is an appropriate location for such
a use or business.
      (2)   The use as developed will not adversely affect the neighborhood.
      (3)   Nuisance or adverse health considerations concerning the proposed
location.
      (4)   Adequate and appropriate facilities will be provided for the proper
operation of the proposed use.
      (5)   The qualifications, health and background of the operator, as
applicable.
   (E)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a different nonconforming use
only with the approval of the City Council. The proposed nonconforming use must
be compatible with the standards listed in division (D) of this section.
   (F)   The parking requirements of Article VI do not apply to businesses
within this district.
(Ord. 1333, passed 4-25-2005; Am. Ord. 1354, passed 11-7-2005; Am. Ord. 1552,
passed 6-28-2010)
§ 40-13-4 PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may act on an application under the regulations of §
40-2-3 in accordance with the following:
   (A)   All applications to the City Council shall be in writing. Every
application shall refer to the specific regulation involved and shall exactly
describe the structure or use for which approval is sought.
   (B)   For applications for approval for regulations as set forth in §
40-13-3(B), (C), and (D), the Zoning Administrator, at the applicant's expense,
shall, at least 15 days before the scheduled City Council meeting, serve a copy
of notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, on the owners, as
recorded in the office of the Monroe County Recorder of Deeds and as appears
from the authentic tax records of Monroe County, of all property abutting the
property affected by the application, provided the area occupied by all public
roads, streets, alleys, and other public ways shall be excluded in determining
the location of abutting property. The Zoning Administrator shall furnish the
City Council proof of service of the notice required in this section before
action is taken on any application.
(Ord. 1333, passed 4-25-2005; Am. Ord. 1774, passed 3-4-2019)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1993 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                             Code Section
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 1 - 6               1-2-2
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 1.02                  1-2-5
Ch. 5, Act 120, § 2.02                  1-2-3,
                                         1-2-13
Ch. 5, Act 120, §§ 2.06 et seq.        1-2-5
Ch. 5, Act 270, § 1                     1-2-26
Ch. 10, Act 5, § 10-2                   5-2-7
Ch. 20, Act 3305                         30-4-1,
                                         30-4-3
Ch. 20, Act 3305, §§ 1 et seq.         Ch. 30, Art. IV
Ch. 30, Act 725, § 1.2                  5-1-5
Ch. 35, Act 120, §§ 1 et seq.          36-4-9
Ch. 35, Act 145, §§ 1 et seq.          36-4-4
Ch. 35, Act 636, §§ 5-1 et seq.     6-8-7
                                         5-3-1 -
                                         5-3-3,
Ch. 40, Act 5, §§ 3-101 et seq.        5-3-6,
                                         5-3-11,
                                         5-3-13,
                                         5-3-14
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-125.1                5-3-3
Ch. 40, Act 5, § 3-127                  5-3-4
Ch. 50, Act 20, § 1                     20-1-7
Ch. 50, Act 105, § 2                    1-2-23,
                                         1-2-46
Ch. 50, Act 105, §§ 3 et seq.          1-2-30
Ch. 50, Act 820, § 3                    Ch. 7, Art. VI
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-1-11                 1-1-15
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-1                  14-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-3                  1-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-4                  1-2-63
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-5                  1-2-62
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-2-6                  1-1-2
                                         1-2-76,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 1-3-2                  6-2-1,
                                         6-4-1,
                                         6-4-4
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 2-2-12                 1-2-21,
                                         1-2-29
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-2-2                  1-2-22
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-2                  1-2-82
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-4                  1-2-41
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-6                  1-2-43
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-9                  1-4-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-4-15                 1-2-25
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-7-2                  1-2-46
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-7-3                  1-2-96,
                                         1-2-97
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-9-1                  1-2-44
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-9-4                  1-2-24
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-3                 1-2-92
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-4                 1-2-85
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-5                 1-2-89
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-5.1               1-2-91
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-10-7                 1-2-21
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-1                 1-2-47
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-3                 1-2-44
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-4                 1-2-50
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-5                 1-2-45
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-6                 1-2-44,
                                         1-2-50
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-7                 1-2-42
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-11                1-2-12
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-14                1-2-54
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-17                1-2-16,
                                         1-2-54
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-18                1-2-16
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-11-19                1-2-17
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-13-1                 1-3-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-13-5                 1-2-34
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-13-7                 1-2-34
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-14-1                 1-2-25
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-14-2                 1-2-24,
                                         1-2-46
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3-14-3                 1-2-24,
                                         1-2-26
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-25              1-2-58
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-30              1-2-58
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-45              1-2-78
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-10-50              1-2-4,
                                         1-2-57
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-15-20              1-2-69
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-5               1-2-57,
                                         1-2-60
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-10              1-2-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-22              1-2-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-25              1-4-4
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-20-35              1-4-4
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-5               1-2-7,
                                         1-2-79
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-10              1-2-79-3
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 3.1-30-15 - 3.1-35-131-2-139
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-30-21              30-2-9
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-10              20-1-3
                                         1-2-61,
                                         1-2-64 -
                                         1-2-68,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-90              1-2-71 -
                                         1-2-75,
                                         1-2-77,
                                         1-2-79-4
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-95              1-2-79-3
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-110             1-2-70
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-115             1-2-79-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-35-120             1-2-79-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-15              1-2-9
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-20              1-2-8,
                                         1-2-10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-25              1-2-3
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-40-35              1-2-5
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 3.1-50-10              1-2-59
                                         1-2-75,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-1-8                  1-2-83,
                                         1-2-84
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-1-9                  1-2-84
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-2-9                  1-2-146
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 8-2-9.1 -            1-2-152
8-2-9.10
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-1                  1-2-29
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-9-2                  1-2-29
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-1                 36-3-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 8-11-2                 36-3-1,
                                         36-3-7
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-1-1                 20-1-6
                                         5-2-1,
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 10-2.1-1 et seq.     5-2-11,
                                         5-2-12,
                                         5-2-16
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-4               5-2-12
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-5               5-2-13
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 10-2.1-7               5-2-11
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-2                 Ch. 30, Art. II
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-5                 27-1-20
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-1-6                 Ch. 30, Art. I
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-2                 27-4-5
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-5-3                 27-5-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-6-1                 Ch. 30, Art. III
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-8-4                 27-1-12
Ch. 65, Act 5, 11-12-4 - 11-12-12        5-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-8                34-3-4
                                         5-1-6,
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-12-12               14-1-1,
                                         34-1-10
Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 11-19 et seq.        16-1-14
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-2                14-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-30-8                14-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-31-2                14-1-1
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-40-3.1              24-7-2
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-42-5                Ch. 7, Art. II; Ch. 7, Art. III
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-80-1-7              33-2-6
Ch. 65, Act 5, § 11-203                 24-2-1
Ch. 70, Act 105, §§ 1 et seq.          5-4-1
Ch. 70, Act 105, § 3                    5-4-2
Ch. 70, Act 105, § 4                    5-4-2
Ch. 75                                   20-1-11
Ch. 75, Act 5, §§ 1 et seq.            20-1-12
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-1                    1-2-23,
                                         20-1-2
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-1.1                  20-1-3
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-4                    20-1-4
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-5                    20-1-2
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-6                    20-1-5
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-7                    20-1-9
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-7.1                  20-1-7
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-7.2                  20-1-8
Ch. 75, Act 5, § 4-10                   20-1-10
Ch. 75, Act 5, §§ 5-1-0.1 et seq.      20-1-4
Ch. 75, Paragraph 4 et seq.              20-1-15
Ch. 105, Act 5, §§ 26-1 et seq.        27-6-1
Ch. 105, Act 5, § 26-2a                 27-6-1
Ch. 205, Act 630, § 17(a)               1-2-2
Ch. 225, Act 320, § 3                   38-4-57
Ch. 230, Act 15, §§ 0.01 et seq.       7-5-1
Ch. 230, Act 40                          7-8-1,
                                         21-3-17
Ch. 230, Act 40, § 75                   7-8-9
Ch. 235                                  1-2-22,
                                         21-1-1
Ch. 235, Act 5, §§ 1-3.01 et seq.      21-1-1
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 1-3.33                40-1-15
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 3-12(a)(1)            21-2-4
                                         21-2-1,
                                         21-2-5,
                                         21-2-6,
                                         21-2-8,
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-1                   21-2-10,
                                         21-3-16,
                                         21-3-18,
                                         21-3-20,
                                         21-3-21
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-2                   1-2-52
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-4                   21-3-27,
                                         21-4-8
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 4-5                   21-2-3
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-1                   21-2-7
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-2(b)                21-2-4
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-5                   21-3-29
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-10                  21-3-28
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-11                  21-3-3
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-12                  21-3-5
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-15                  21-3-29
                                         21-3-11,
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-16                  21-3-19,
                                         21-3-30 -
                                         21-3-33
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-17                  21-3-29
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(a)               21-3-22 
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(b)               21-3-23
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(c), (d), (e)     21-3-24
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-20(g)               21-3-26
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-22                  21-3-29
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-24                  21-2-9
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-28                  21-3-2
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 6-31                  21-3-2
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-1                   21-2-2
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-5                   21-4-10
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-7                   21-4-9
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 7-9                   21-4-11 -
                                         21-4-13
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-2                  21-4-1
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-3                  21-4-2
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-4                  21-4-3
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-5                  21-4-4
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-6                  21-4-5
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-7                  21-4-6
Ch. 235, Act 5, § 10-13                 21-4-7
Ch. 410, Act 54                          7-7-7
Ch. 410, Act 650, §§ 1 et seq.         21-3-13
Ch. 410, Act 650, § 10                  21-3-14
Ch. 415, Act 5, § 4                     38-4-57
Ch. 625, Act 5                           24-7-9
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 1                     24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.       24-1-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 4-201 - 4-214       Ch. 24, Art. VII
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 4-203                 24-7-4
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 6-306.5               24-6-9
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-206                24-2-7
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-207                24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208                24-3-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.1              24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-208.2              24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-209.1              24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-301                24-2-3
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-302                24-3-3,
                                         24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-303                24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-304                24-3-5
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-310(f)             24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-313                24-4-1,
                                         24-4-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-401 - 11-416     24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-500 - 11-502     24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-502                24-4-4
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-505                24-4-7
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-506                24-4-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 11-602 - 11-604     24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-604                24-4-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-605                24-4-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-606(b)             24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-608                24-4-1,
                                         24-4-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-904(a)             24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1416(a)            24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1419               24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1422               24-4-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11-1507               24-2-8
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 11.1-1301.1           Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 12 et seq.          24-5-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-602                24-5-2
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-605                24-5-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-605.1              24-5-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 12-605.2              24-5-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 18b-101               7-8-1
Ch. 625, Act 5, § 20-204                24-4-1
Ch. 720                                  27-1-1
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 10 - 12             7-7-16
Ch. 720, Act 5, §§ 11 et seq.          7-7-5
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-1                  27-3-1
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-33                 7-7-5
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12-34                 7-7-5
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12C-35                7-7-5
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 12C-40                7-7-5
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 16-1                  27-4-1
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-1                  27-4-2
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 21-3                  27-4-4
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 25-1                  27-5-1
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 28-1                  21-3-17
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-1                  27-5-3
Ch. 720, Act 5, § 31-8                  27-5-4
Ch. 720, Act 675-1.5, § 1               27-7-2
Ch. 740, Act 55, § 221                  25-1-1
Ch. 740, Act 55, § 222                  25-1-1
Ch. 745, Act 10, §§ 2-201 et seq.      1-2-28
Ch. 765, Act 205, § 2                   14-1-8
Ch. 765, Act 225, §§ 1 et seq.         34-1-17, 34-5-5
Ch. 765, Act 605, §§ 1 et seq.         40-1-15
Ch. 820, Act 185, §§ 1 et seq.         1-2-29
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1993 CODE
1993 Code Section 2004 Code Section
1993 Code Section           2004 Code Section
1-1-1                       1-1-1
1-1-2                       1-1-2
1-1-3                       1-1-3
1-1-4                       1-1-4
1-1-5                       1-1-5
1-1-8                       1-1-8
1-1-9                       1-1-9
1-1-10                      1-1-10
1-1-11                      1-1-11
1-1-12                      1-1-12
1-1-14                      1-1-14
1-1-15                      1-1-15
1-1-16                      1-1-16
1-2-1                       1-2-1
1-2-2                       1-2-2
1-2-3                       1-2-3
1-2-4                       1-2-4
1-2-5                       1-2-5
1-2-6                       1-2-6
1-2-7                       1-2-8
1-2-8                       1-2-10
1-2-12                      1-2-12
1-2-16                      1-2-16
1-2-17                      1-2-17
1-2-18                      1-2-18
1-2-21                      1-2-21
1-2-22                      1-2-22
1-2-23                      1-2-23
1-2-24                      1-2-24
1-2-25                      1-2-25
1-2-26                      1-2-26
1-2-27                      1-2-27
1-2-28                      1-2-28
1-2-29                      1-2-29
1-2-30                      1-2-30
1-2-31                      1-3-2
1-2-32                      1-2-32
1-2-33                      1-2-33
1-2-34                      1-2-34
1-2-35                      1-2-35
1-2-36                      1-2-36
1-2-37                      1-2-37
1-2-41                      1-2-41
1-2-42                      1-2-41
1-2-43                      1-2-43
1-2-44                      1-2-44
1-2-45                      1-2-45
1-2-46                      1-2-46
1-2-47                      1-2-47
1-2-48                      1-2-48
1-2-49                      1-2-49
1-2-50                      1-2-50
1-2-51                      1-2-51
1-2-52                      1-2-52
1-2-53                      1-2-53
1-2-54                      1-2-54
1-2-57                      1-2-57
1-2-60                      1-2-60
1-2-61                      1-2-66
1-2-62                      1-2-67
1-2-63                      1-2-68
1-2-65                      1-2-69
1-2-66                      1-2-70
1-2-67                      1-2-71
1-2-68                      1-2-72
1-2-69                      1-2-73
1-2-70                      1-2-74
1-2-71                      1-2-75
1-2-73                      1-2-77
1-2-74                      1-2-79-4
1-2-75                      1-2-79-3
1-2-80                      1-2-80
1-2-81                      1-2-81
1-2-82                      1-2-82
1-2-83                      1-2-83
1-2-84                      1-2-84
1-2-85                      1-2-85
1-2-86                      1-2-86
1-2-87                      1-2-87
1-2-88                      1-2-88
1-2-89                      1-2-89
1-2-90                      1-2-90
1-2-91                      1-2-91
1-2-92                      1-2-92
1-2-96                      1-2-96
1-2-97                      1-2-97
1-2-105                     1-2-105
1-2-106                     1-2-106
1-3-1                       1-3-1
1-4-1                       1-4-1
1-4-2                       1-4-2
1-4-3                       1-4-3
1-4-4                       1-4-4
1-4-5                       1-4-5
1-4-6                       1-4-6
3-1-1                       3-1-1
3-1-2                       3-1-2
3-1-3                       3-1-3
3-1-4                       3-1-4
3-1-5                       3-1-5
3-1-6                       3-1-6
3-1-7                       3-1-7
3-1-8                       3-1-8
3-1-9                       3-1-9
3-1-10                      3-1-10
3-1-11                      3-1-11
3-1-12                      3-1-12
3-1-13                      3-1-13
3-1-14                      3-1-14
3-1-15                      3-1-15
3-1-16                      3-1-16
3-2-1                       3-2-1
3-2-2                       3-2-2
3-2-3                       3-2-3
3-2-4                       3-2-4
3-2-5                       3-2-5
3-2-6                       3-2-6
3-2-7                       3-2-7
5-1-1                       5-1-1
5-1-2                       5-1-2
5-1-3                       5-1-3
5-1-4                       5-1-4
5-1-5                       5-1-5
5-1-6                       5-1-6
5-1-7                       5-1-7
5-1-8                       5-1-8
5-1-9                       5-1-9
5-2-1                       5-2-1
5-2-2                       5-2-2
5-2-3                       5-2-3
5-2-4                       5-2-4
5-2-5                       5-2-5
5-2-6                       5-2-6
5-2-7                       5-2-7
5-2-8                       5-2-8
5-2-9                       5-2-9
5-2-10                      5-2-10
5-2-11                      5-2-11
5-2-12                      5-2-12
5-2-13                      5-2-13
5-2-14                      5-2-14
5-2-15                      5-2-15
5-2-16                      5-2-16
5-3-1                       5-3-1
5-3-2                       5-3-2
5-3-3                       5-3-3
5-3-4                       5-3-4
5-3-5                       5-3-5
5-3-6                       5-3-6
5-3-7                       5-3-7
5-3-8                       5-3-8
5-3-9                       5-3-9
5-3-10                      5-3-10
5-3-11                      5-3-11
5-3-12                      5-3-12
5-3-13                      5-3-13
5-3-14                      5-3-14
6-1-1                       6-1-1
6-1-2                       6-1-2
6-1-3                       6-1-3
6-3-1                       6-3-1
6-3-2                       6-3-2
6-3-3                       6-3-3
6-3-4                       6-3-4
6-3-5                       6-3-5
6-3-6                       6-3-6
7-1-1                       7-1-1
7-1-2                       7-1-2
7-1-3                       7-1-3
7-1-4                       7-1-4
7-1-5                       7-1-5
7-1-6                       7-1-6
7-1-7                       7-1-7
7-1-8                       7-1-8
7-1-9                       7-1-9
7-1-10.3                    7-1-10
7-1-12                      7-1-12
7-1-13.1                    7-1-13
7-1-13.2                    7-1-13
7-1-13.3                    7-1-13
7-1-13.4                    7-1-13
7-1-13.5                    7-1-13
7-1-14                      7-1-14
7-1-15                      7-1-15
7-1-16                      7-1-16
Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix A   Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix A
Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix B   Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix B
Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix C   Ch. 7, Art. I, Appendix C
7-2-1                       7-2-1
7-2-2                       7-2-2
7-2-3                       7-2-3
7-2-4                       7-2-4
7-2-5                       7-2-5
7-2-6                       7-2-6
7-2-7                       7-2-7
7-2-8                       7-2-8
7-2-9                       7-2-9
7-2-10                      7-2-10
7-2-11                      7-2-11
7-3-1                       7-3-1
7-3-2                       7-3-2
7-3-3                       7-3-3
7-3-4                       7-3-4
7-3-5                       7-3-5
7-3-6                       7-3-6
7-3-7                       7-3-7
7-3-8                       7-3-8
7-3-9                       7-3-9
7-3-10                      7-3-10
7-3-11                      7-3-11
7-3-12                      7-3-12
7-4-1                       7-4-1
7-4-2                       7-4-2
7-4-3                       7-4-3
7-4-5                       7-4-5
7-4-7                       7-4-7
7-4-8                       7-4-8
7-4-10                      7-4-10
7-4-11                      7-4-11
7-4-12                      7-4-12
7-4-13                      7-4-13
7-4-14                      7-4-14
7-4-15                      7-4-15
7-4-16                      7-4-16
7-4-17                      7-4-17
7-4-18                      7-4-18
7-4-19                      7-4-19
7-6-1                       7-6-1
7-6-2                       7-6-2
7-6-3                       7-6-3
7-6-4                       7-6-4
7-6-5                       7-6-5
7-6-6                       7-6-6
7-6-7                       7-6-7
7-6-8                       7-6-8
7-6-9                       7-6-9
7-6-10                      7-6-10
7-6-11                      7-6-11
7-6-12                      7-6-12
7-6-13                      7-6-13
11-1-1                      11-1-1
11-1-2                      11-1-1
11-1-3                      11-1-3
11-1-4                      11-1-4
15-1-1                      15-1-1
15-1-2                      15-1-2
15-1-3                      15-1-3
15-1-4                      15-1-4
15-1-5                      15-1-5
16-1-1                      16-1-1
16-1-2                      16-1-2
16-1-3                      16-1-3
16-1-6                      16-1-6
16-1-7                      16-1-7
16-1-8                      16-1-8
16-1-9                      16-1-9
16-1-10                     16-1-10
16-1-11                     16-1-11
16-1-12                     16-1-12
16-1-13                     16-1-13
16-1-14                     16-1-14
16-1-15                     16-1-15
20-1-2                      20-1-2
20-1-3                      20-1-3
20-1-4                      20-1-4
20-1-5                      20-1-5
20-1-7                      20-1-6
20-1-8                      20-1-7
20-1-9                      20-1-8
20-1-10                     20-1-9
20-1-11                     20-1-10
20-1-12                     20-1-11
20-1-13                     20-1-13
21-1-1                      21-1-1
21-1-7                      21-1-7
21-2-1                      21-2-1
21-2-2                      21-2-2
21-2-3                      21-2-3
21-2-4                      21-2-4
21-2-5                      21-2-5
21-2-7                      21-2-7
21-2-8                      21-2-8
21-2-9                      21-2-9
21-2-10                     21-2-10
21-3-1                      21-3-1
21-3-2                      21-3-2
21-3-3                      21-3-3
21-3-4                      21-3-4
21-3-5                      21-3-5
21-3-6                      21-3-6
21-3-7                      21-3-7
21-3-8                      21-3-8
21-3-9                      21-3-9
21-3-10                     21-3-10
21-3-11                     21-3-11
21-3-12                     21-3-12
21-3-13                     21-3-13
21-3-14                     21-3-14
21-3-15                     21-3-15
21-3-16                     21-3-16
21-3-17                     21-3-17
21-3-18                     21-3-18
21-3-19                     21-3-19
21-3-20                     21-3-20
21-3-21                     21-3-21
21-3-22                     21-3-22
21-3-23                     21-3-23
21-3-24                     21-3-24
21-3-25                     21-3-25
21-3-26                     21-3-26
21-3-27                     21-3-27
21-3-28                     21-3-28
21-3-29                     21-3-29
21-3-30                     21-3-30
21-3-31                     21-3-31
21-3-32                     21-3-32
21-3-33                     21-3-33
21-4-1                      21-4-1
21-4-2                      21-4-2
21-4-2                      21-4-3
21-4-4                      21-4-4
21-4-5                      21-4-5
21-4-6                      21-4-6
21-4-7                      21-4-7
21-4-8                      21-4-8
21-4-9                      21-4-9
21-4-10                     21-4-10
21-4-11                     21-4-11
21-4-12                     21-4-12
21-4-13                     21-4-13
23-1-1                      23-1-1
23-1-2                      23-1-2
23-1-3                      23-1-3
23-1-4                      23-1-4
23-1-5                      23-1-5
23-1-6                      23-1-6
23-1-7                      23-1-6
23-1-8                      23-1-8
23-1-9                      23-1-9
23-1-10                     23-1-10
23-1-11                     23-1-11
23-1-12                     23-1-12
23-1-13                     23-1-13
23-1-14                     23-1-14
Ch. 23, Art. I, Appendix    Ch. 23, Art. I, Appendix
23-2-1                      23-2-1
24-1-1                      24-1-1
24-2-1                      24-2-1
24-2-2                      24-2-2
24-2-3                      24-2-3
24-2-4                      24-2-4
24-2-5                      24-2-5
24-2-6                      24-2-6
24-2-7                      24-2-7
24-2-8                      24-2-8
24-3-1                      24-3-1
24-3-2                      24-3-2
24-3-3                      24-3-3
24-3-4                      24-3-4
24-3-5                      24-3-5
24-4-1                      24-4-1
24-4-2                      24-4-2
24-4-3                      24-4-3
24-4-4                      24-4-4
24-4-5                      24-4-5
24-4-6                      24-4-6
24-4-7                      24-4-7
24-4-8                      24-4-8
24-4-9                      24-4-9
24-5-1                      24-5-1
24-5-2                      24-5-2
24-6-1                      24-6-1
24-6-2                      24-6-2
24-6-3                      24-6-3
24-6-4                      24-6-3
24-6-5                      24-6-5
24-6-6                      24-6-6
24-6-7                      24-6-7
24-6-8                      24-6-8
24-6-9                      24-6-9
24-6-10                     24-6-10
24-7-1                      24-7-1
24-7-2                      24-7-2
24-7-3                      24-7-3
24-7-4                      24-7-4
24-7-5                      24-7-5
24-7-6                      24-7-6
24-7-7                      24-7-7
24-7-8                      24-7-8
24-7-9                      24-7-9
24-7-10                     24-7-10
24-7-11                     24-7-11
24-7-12                     24-7-12
24-7-13                     24-7-13
24-7-14                     24-7-14
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. F Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. F
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. H Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. H
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. I Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. I
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. L Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. L
25-1-1                      25-1-1
25-1-2                      25-1-2
25-1-3                      25-1-3
25-1-4                      25-1-4
Ch. 25, Art. I, Appendix    Ch. 25, Art. I, Appendix
27-1-1                      27-1-1
27-1-2                      27-1-2
27-1-3                      27-1-3
27-1-4                      27-1-4
27-1-6                      27-1-6
27-1-7                      27-1-7
27-1-8                      27-1-8
27-1-9                      27-1-9
27-1-10                     27-1-10
27-1-11                     27-1-11
27-1-12                     27-1-12
27-1-13                     27-1-13
27-1-14                     27-1-14
27-1-15                     27-1-15
27-1-16                     27-1-16
27-1-17                     27-1-17
27-1-18                     27-1-18
27-1-19                     27-1-19
27-1-20                     27-1-20
27-1-21                     27-1-21
27-1-22                     27-1-22
27-2-1                      27-2-1
27-2-4                      27-2-4
27-2-5                      27-2-5
27-2-6                      27-2-6
27-3-1                      27-3-1
27-3-2                      27-3-2
27-3-3                      27-3-3
27-3-4                      27-3-4
27-4-1                      27-4-1
27-4-2                      27-4-2
27-4-4                      27-4-4
27-4-5                      27-4-5
27-5-1                      27-5-1
27-5-2                      27-5-2
27-5-3                      27-5-3
27-5-4                      27-5-4
27-5-5                      27-5-5
30-1-1                      30-1-1
30-1-2                      30-1-2
30-1-3                      30-1-3
30-1-4                      30-1-4
30-1-5                      30-1-5
30-1-6                      30-1-6
30-2-1                      30-2-1
30-2-2                      30-2-2
30-2-3                      30-2-3
30-2-4                      30-2-4
30-2-5                      30-2-5
30-2-6                      30-2-6
30-2-7                      30-2-7
30-2-8                      30-2-8
30-2-11                     30-2-10
30-2-12                     30-2-11
30-2-13                     30-2-12
30-2-14                     30-2-13
30-2-15                     30-2-14
30-2-16                     30-2-15
30-2-17                     30-2-16
30-2-19                     30-2-17
30-4-1                      30-4-1
30-4-2                      30-4-2
30-4-3                      30-4-3
30-4-4                      30-4-4
30-4-5                      30-4-5
30-4-6                      30-4-6
30-4-7                      30-4-7
30-4-8                      30-4-8
30-4-9                      30-4-9
30-4-10                     30-4-10
30-4-11                     30-4-11
30-4-12                     30-4-12
33-1-1                      33-1-1
33-1-2                      33-1-2
33-2-1                      33-2-1
33-2-2                      33-2-2
33-2-3                      33-2-3
33-2-4                      33-2-4
33-2-5                      33-2-5
33-2-6                      33-2-6
33-2-7                      33-2-7
33-2-8                      33-2-8
33-2-9                      33-2-9
33-2-10                     33-2-10
33-2-11                     33-2-11
33-2-12                     33-2-12
33-2-13                     33-2-13
33-2-14                     33-2-14
33-2-15                     33-2-15
33-2-16                     33-2-16
33-2-17                     33-2-17
33-3-1                      33-3-1
33-3-2                      33-3-2
33-3-3                      33-3-3
33-3-4                      33-3-4
33-3-5                      33-3-5
33-3-6                      33-3-6
33-3-7                      33-3-7
33-3-8                      33-3-8
33-4-1                      33-4-2
33-4-2                      33-4-3
33-4-3                      33-4-4
33-4-4                      33-4-5
33-4-5                      33-4-6
33-4-11                     33-4-13,
                            33-4-15
33-4-12                     33-4-12
33-4-14                     33-4-9
33-4-15                     33-4-23
33-4-16                     33-4-10
33-4-17                     33-4-18
33-4-18                     33-4-21
33-4-20                     33-4-17
33-4-22                     33-4-20
33-4-25                     33-4-25
33-4-26                     33-4-26
33-4-27                     33-4-19
33-4-28                     33-4-11
33-4-29                     33-4-8
33-4-30                     33-4-27
33-5-1                      33-5-1
33-6-1                      33-6-1
33-6-5                      33-6-5
33-6-6                      33-6-6
33-6-7                      33-6-7
33-7-4                      33-7-4
33-7-5                      33-7-5
33-7-6                      33-7-6
33-8-1                      33-8-1
33-8-2                      33-8-2
33-8-3                      33-8-3
33-8-4                      33-8-4
33-10-3                     33-10-3
38-2-1                      38-2-1
38-2-3                      38-2-3
38-2-4                      38-2-4
38-2-5                      38-2-5
38-2-6                      38-2-6
38-2-7                      38-2-7
38-2-8                      38-2-8
38-2-9                      38-2-9
38-2-10                     38-2-10
38-2-11                     38-2-11
38-2-12                     38-2-12
38-2-13                     38-2-13
38-2-14                     38-2-14
38-2-15                     38-2-15
38-2-16                     38-2-16
38-2-17                     38-2-17
38-2-18                     38-2-18
38-2-19                     38-2-19
38-2-21                     38-2-21
38-2-22                     38-2-22
38-2-23                     38-2-23
38-2-24                     38-2-24
38-2-26                     38-2-26
38-2-31                     38-2-31
38-3-1                      38-3-1
38-3-2                      38-3-3
38-3-3                      38-3-4
38-3-4                      38-3-5
38-3-5                      38-3-6
38-3-6                      38-3-7
38-3-7                      38-3-8
38-3-8                      38-3-9
38-3-9                      38-3-10
38-3-10                     38-3-11
38-3-11                     38-3-12
38-3-12                     38-3-13
38-3-13                     38-3-14
38-3-14                     38-3-15
38-3-15                     38-3-16
38-3-16                     38-3-17
38-3-17                     38-3-18
38-3-18                     38-3-19
38-3-19                     38-3-20
38-3-20                     38-3-21
38-3-21                     38-3-22
38-3-22                     38-3-23
38-3-23                     38-3-24
38-3-24                     38-3-25
38-3-28                     38-3-28
38-3-29                     38-3-29
38-3-30                     38-3-30
38-3-31                     38-3-31
38-3-32                     38-3-32
38-3-33                     38-3-33
38-3-34                     38-3-34
38-3-35                     38-3-35
38-3-36                     38-3-36
38-3-37                     38-3-37
38-3-38                     38-3-38
38-3-39                     38-3-39
38-3-40                     38-3-40
38-3-44                     38-3-46
38-3-45                     38-3-47
38-3-46                     38-3-48
38-3-47                     38-3-49
38-3-48                     38-3-50
38-3-49                     38-3-51
38-3-50                     38-3-52
38-3-51                     38-3-53
38-3-52                     38-3-54
38-3-53                     38-3-55
38-3-54                     38-3-56
38-3-55                     38-3-57
38-3-56                     38-3-75
38-3-57                     38-3-59
38-3-58                     38-3-60
38-3-62                     38-3-65
38-3-63                     38-3-66
38-3-65                     38-3-67
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
508      - - 1972    Revised Code
509      2-22-1972   Special Legislation
510      4-17-1972   (Repealed)
511      - - 1972    Special Legislation
512      - - 1972    Special Legislation
513      8-7-1972    Special Legislation
517      12-18-1972  3-1-1 -
                     3-1-16
518      12-18-1972  23-1-1 -
                     23-1-14
519      2-5-1973    (Repealed by Ord. 563)
520      2-5-1973    Special Legislation
522      5-1-1973    (Repeals Ord. 510)
523      5-7-1973    Special Legislation
524      - -1973     Special Legislation
525      - -1973     Special Legislation
528      2-19-1974   Special Legislation
                     33-1-1,
                     33-1-2,
                     33-2-1 -
                     33-2-17,
                     33-3-1 -
                     33-3-8,
                     33-4-2 -
                     33-4-6,
                     33-4-8 -
                     33-4-13,
                     33-4-17 -
529      5-6-1974    33-4-21,
                     33-4-23,
                     33-4-25 -
                     33-4-27,
                     33-5-1,
                     33-6-1,
                     33-6-5 -
                     33-6-7,
                     33-7-4 -
                     33-7-6,
                     33-8-1 -
                     33-8-4,
                     33-10-1
532      - - 1974    Special Legislation
534      - - 1974    Special Legislation
535      8-5-1974    Special Legislation
538      3-3-1975    Special Legislation
539      3-17-1975   Special Legislation
542      6-2-1975    Special Legislation
                     21-1-1,
                     21-1-2,
                     21-2-1 -
                     21-2-5,
543      6-16-1975   21-2-7 -
                     21-2-10,
                     21-3-1 -
                     21-3-33,
                     21-4-1 -
                     21-4-13
544      8-4-1975    Special Legislation
545      8-4-1975    Special Legislation
546      8-4-1975    Special Legislation
547      8-4-1975    Special Legislation
548      9-15-1975   Special Legislation
549      9-2-1975    Special Legislation
553      10-20-1975  Special Legislation
560      3-15-1976   Special Legislation
561      4-19-1976   Special Legislation
562      7-19-1976   30-4-1 -
                     30-4-12
564      6-21-1976   Special Legislation
565      8-2-1976    Special Legislation
566      - - 1976    Special Legislation
568      7-19-1976   Special Legislation
                     21-1-1,
                     21-2-1 -
                     21-2-5,
                     21-2-7 -
569      7-19-1976   21-2-10,
                     21-3-1 -
                     21-3-33,
                     21-4-1 -
                     21-4-13
570      8-2-1976    Special Legislation
                     21-1-1,
                     21-1-2,
                     21-2-1 -
                     21-2-5,
573      10-18-1976  21-2-7 -
                     21-2-10,
                     21-3-1 -
                     21-3-33,
                     21-4-1 -
                     21-4-13
574      12-20-1976  Special Legislation
575      12-6-1976   Special Legislation
576      12-20-1976  Special Legislation
579      1-17-1977   Special Legislation
580      4-19-1977   Special Legislation
                     33-4-2 -
                     33-4-6,
                     33-4-8 -
                     33-4-13,
582      3-21-1977   33-4-17 -
                     33-4-21,
                     33-4-23,
                     33-4-25 -
                     33-4-27
586      4-18-1977   Special Legislation
                     24-1-1,
                     24-2-2,
                     24-2-3,
                     24-2-5 -
                     24-2-8,
                     24-3-1 -
                     24-3-5,
                     24-4-1 -
590      6-6-1977    24-4-9,
                     24-5-1,
                     24-5-2,
                     24-6-1 -
                     24-6-4,
                     24-6-6 -
                     24-6-10,
                     24-7-1 -
                     24-7-14
591      6-20-1977   1-2-29
594      8-15-1977   Special Legislation
595      9-6-1977    Special Legislation
598      7-7-1977    27-1-22
599      2-6-1978    Special Legislation
600      2-2-1978    City Code
601      3-6-1978    Special Legislation
602      4-17-1978   Special Legislation
603      4-17-1978   Special Legislation
604      5-1-1978    25-1-1
605      8-7-1978    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
606      7-11-1978   Special Legislation
607      8-21-1978   Special Legislation
608      8-7-1978    Special Legislation
609      10-2-1978   24-3-2, Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched.
                     J
610      10-2-1978   Special Legislation
611      10-2-1978   Special Legislation
613      10-16-1978  Special Legislation
614      11-20-1978  Special Legislation
615      1-2-1979    Special Legislation
617      1-2-1979    Veto - Overridden
618      2-5-1979    Special Legislation
619      1-16-1979   Veto - Overridden
620      1-15-1979   Special Legislation
621      3-19-1979   Special Legislation
623      3-5-1979    Special Legislation
624      4-18-1979   Special Legislation
625      6-4-1979    Special Legislation
627      6-18-1979   Special Legislation
629      8-20-1979   Special Legislation
630      9-4-1979    25-1-1
631      8-2-1979    Special Legislation
635      11-5-1979   Special Legislation
636      11-19-1979  Special Legislation
637      11-19-1979  Chapter 21-3-1
638      11-5-1979   Special Legislation
639      12-17-1979  Special Legislation
                     38-2-7,
640      1-7-1980    38-2-10,
                     38-2-11
641      2-4-1980    38-1-6,
                     38-2-20
642      2-18-1980   21-3-19
643      - - 1980    Special Legislation
644      2-18-1980   Special Legislation
                     24-2-2,
                     24-2-3,
645      4-7-1980    24-2-5 -
                     24-2-8, Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII,
                     Sched. C
646      4-7-1980    Special Legislation
648      5-19-1980   Special Legislation
649      5-19-1980   Special Legislation
651      8-4-1980    Special Legislation
652      8-4-1980    21-2-8
653      8-4-1980    Special Legislation
654      8-4-1980    Special Legislation
656      11-3-1980   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
657      11-17-1980  Special Legislation
660      1-5-1981    Special Legislation
663      5-18-1981   Special Legislation
664      4-7-1981    1-2-22
665      4-20-1981   Special Legislation
666      5-18-1981   Special Legislation
667      6-1-1981    Special Legislation
668      7-6-1981    Special Legislation
670      10-19-1981  Special Legislation
671      - - 1981    Special Legislation
674      1-18-1982   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
675      4-19-1982   1-4-1 -
                     1-4-6
676      4-19-1982   Special Legislation
677      5-3-1982    Special Legislation
681      - - 1982    Special Legislation
682      9-7-1982    Special Legislation
683      10-4-1982   Special Legislation
685      2-7-1983    Special Legislation
687      4-18-1983   Special Legislation
689      6-20-1983   Special Legislation
690      7-18-1983   Special Legislation
691      - - 1983    Special Legislation
698      4-16-1984   Special Legislation
697      4-16-1984   38-2-3
700      4-16-1984   Special Legislation
702      7-16-1984   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
703      9-4-1984    Special Legislation
705      10-1-1984   Special Legislation
706      11-5-1984   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
712      6-3-1985    6-3-1 -
                     6-3-8
714      6-8-1985    33-2-10
716      6-3-1985    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
717      6-3-1985    Special Legislation
718      6-17-1985   Special Legislation
720      8-19-1985   Special Legislation
721      9-3-1985    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
722      8-26-1985   Special Legislation
723      9-16-1985   Special Legislation
724      12-2-1985   Special Legislation
725      2-3-1986    Special Legislation
                     38-2-1 -
                     38-2-19,
726      2-3-1986    38-2-21 -
                     38-2-24,
                     38-2-26,
                     38-2-31
727      2-17-1986   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. F
728      4-21-1986   Special Legislation
731      7-8-1986    Special Legislation
736      10-20-1986  Special Legislation
750      9-1-1987    5-1-3 -
                     5-1-5
751      9-21-1987   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A,
                     25-1-3
756      1-4-1988    38-3-9
757      1-4-1988    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
                     33-1-1 -
                     33-1-2,
                     33-2-1 -
                     33-2-17,
                     33-3-1 -
                     33-3-8,
                     33-4-2 -
                     33-4-6,
                     33-4-8 -
                     33-4-13,
                     33-4-17 -
762      4-4-1988    33-4-21,
                     33-4-23,
                     33-4-25 -
                     33-4-27,
                     33-5-1,
                     33-6-1,
                     33-6-5 -
                     33-6-7,
                     33-7-4 -
                     33-7-6,
                     33-8-1 -
                     33-8-4,
                     33-10-1
763      4-18-1988   1-1-15,
                     1-3-1
769      6-6-1988    Special Legislation
771      7-5-1988    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
778      9-19-1988   7-6-1 -
                     7-6-13
779      11-7-1988   15-1-1
783      11-21-1988  27-5-5
786      2-20-1989   11-1-1 -
                     11-1-4
789      20-20-1989  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
                     1-2-1,
800      8-7-1989    1-2-22,
                     1-2-41,
                     1-2-57
801      9-7-1989    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
                     21-1-1,
802      8-21-1989   21-3-1,
                     21-3-20
                     38-3-1 -
                     38-3-25,
                     38-3-28 -
                     38-3-40,
804      9-18-1989   38-3-46 -
                     38-3-60,
                     38-3-65 -
                     38-3-67,
                     38-3-75
812      11-20-1989  Special Legislation
813      12-18-1989  24-6-5,
                     24-6-6, Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
819      2-19-1990   Special Legislation
820      2-24-1990   Special Legislation
821      4-16-1990   Special Legislation
822      4-16-1990   Special Legislation
823      4-3-1990    Special legislation
824      5-21-1990   16-1-15
                     27-2-1,
826      8-6-1990    27-2-4 -
                     27-2-6
827      11-5-1990   Special Legislation
828      11-5-1990   Special Legislation
829      11-5-1990   Special Legislation
830      11-19-1990  Special Legislation
831      2-4-1991    24-2-4, Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D; Ch. 24, Art. VIII,
                     Sched. H
832      2-18-1991   Special Legislation
834      3-18-1991   Special Legislation
836      4-1-1991    5-3-1 -
                     5-3-14
837      4-1-1991    5-2-1 -
                     5-2-16
839      5-6-1991    16-1-15
842      7-15-1991   Special Legislation
843      7-15-1991   Special Legislation
844      6-17-1991   Special Legislation
                     38-2-1 -
                     38-2-19,
845      9-3-1991    38-2-21 -
                     38-2-24,
                     38-2-26,
                     38-2-31
849      11-18-1991  24-6-3; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. F; Ch. 24, Art. VIII,
                     Sched. L
851      10-21-1991  Special Legislation
852      10-21-1991  Special Legislation
861      6-1-1992    Special Legislation
862      5-18-1992   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
863      7-20-1992   38-2-31
872      9-21-1992   Special Legislation
873      - -         Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
876      11-6-1992   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
878      12-7-1992   16-1-15
                     38-2-8,
                     38-2-9,
879      1-4-1993    38-2-13,
                     38-2-15 -
                     38-2-17
                     1-2-2,
892      8-16-1993   24-6-3; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII,
                     Sched. I; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
907      1-18-1994   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
909      2-7-1994    38-2-17
911      2-22-1994   36-2-1 -
                     36-2-6
915      4-18-1994   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. I
919      8-1-1994    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C;
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. I
929      8-22-1994   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
930      9-19-1994   21-4-13
935      10-24-1994  27-1-23
                     38-3-41,
944      12-19-1994  38-3-42,
                     38-3-44,
                     38-3-45
948      1-23-1995   1-3-1
953      3-6-1995    14-1-1 -
                     14-1-12
955      3-27-1995   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C;
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
962      4-23-1995   38-2-20
968      7-24-1995   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. G
969      8-7-1995    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
977      10-23-1995  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
                     30-2-1 -
                     30-2-10,
979      11-20-1995  31-2-12,
                     30-2-15,
                     30-2-16
984      12-18-1995  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
985      12-18-1995  38-3-54
986      1-2-1996    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
989      1-15-1996   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
991      2-5-1996    38-3-54
995      2-26-1996   7-2-10
1010     4-22-1996   38-2-21
1018     8-19-1996   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1020     9-3-1996    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1021     9-16-1996   33-5-3
1025     10-21-1996  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1031     12-16-1996  24-3-6
1037     4-21-1997   38-3-65
1043     6-16-1997   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1044     6-16-1997   38-2-31
                     21-1-2,
1051     11-24-1997  21-3-1,
                     21-3-29
1054     1-19-1998   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. E
1055     2-2-1998    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
                     38-1-1 -
                     38-1-15,
1059     3-2-1998    38-1-17,
                     38-1-20 -
                     38-1-38
1060     3-16-1998   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1062     4-6-1998    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
                     34-1-1 -
                     34-1-10,
                     34-1-12,
                     34-1-13,
                     34-2-1 -
                     34-2-5;
                     34-3-1,
1069     7-20-1998   34-3-3 -
                     34-3-19,
                     34-3-21, Ch. 34, Art. III, Appx.;
                     34-4-1 -
                     34-4-3,
                     34-4-6 -
                     34-4-26, 34-5-5,
                     34-5-8
                     40-1-1 -
                     40-1-5,
                     40-1-6 -
                     40-1-12,
                     40-1-14,
                     40-1-15,
                     40-2-1 -
                     40-2-9,
                     40-2-11 -
                     40-2-16;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
                     40-3-1 -
                     40-3-5,
                     40-3-7,
                     40-3-16,
                     40-4-1,
                     40-4-3 -
                     40-4-5,
                     40-4-9 -
1070     7-20-1998   40-4-22,
                     40-5-2 -
                     40-5-9,
                     40-6-1 -
                     40-6-20,
                     40-7-1 -
                     40-7-8,
                     40-8-1 
                     40-8-4,
                     40-8-6 -
                     40-8-8,
                     40-9-1 -
                     40-9-4,
                     40-9-6 -
                     40-9-10,
                     40-10-1 -
                     40-10-7,
                     40-11-1 -
                     40-11-4,
                     40-12-1 -
                     40-12-3
1077     11-2-1998   24-6-11
1078     10-19-1998  1-2-92
1082     11-23-1998  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1084     12-7-1998   40-2-3; Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
                     33-4-1 -
1088     2-16-1999   33-4-14,
                     33-4-16 -
                     33-4-27
1093     4-19-1999   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1094     4-26-1999   38-1-36
1096     4-26-1999   38-3-54
1097     4-26-1999   40-2-3; Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
                     38-3-20,
                     38-3-23,
1098     7-17-1999   38-3-26,
                     38-3-27,
                     38-3-74 -
                     38-3-81
1100     6-21-1999   27-1-24
1101     6-21-1999   34-5-7
1103     7-19-1999   36-3-1 -
                     36-3-8
1106     8-2-1999    5-2-17
1107     8-23-1999   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
1108     8-23-1999   34-4-16
1109     9-7-1999    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1111     9-20-1999   1-2-12
1112     9-20-1999   1-2-130 -
                     1-2-139
1113     9-20-1999   1-2-140 -
                     1-2-152
1116     10-18-1999  30-2-1 -
                     30-2-17
1117     11-15-1999  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1120     12-6-1999   30-5-1
1122     1-3-2000    1-2-57 -
                     1-2-79-4
1126     1-24-2000   6-2-1 -
                     6-2-3
1129     2-7-2000    40-2-3; Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A; 40-5-4
1131     2-28-2000   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1134     4-3-2000    6-1-1 -
                     6-1-3
1136     4-17-2000   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1145     6-26-2000   38-1-11
1147     7-17-2000   38-3-16
1148     7-17-2000   38-2-3
1149     7-17-2000   38-1-5
1150     7-17-2000   5-1-4
1151     7-17-2000   1-2-98
1153     8-21-2000   40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1154     8-21-2000   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1155     8-28-2000   36-4-1 -
                     36-4-9
1156     10-16-2000  40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1159     11-6-2000   40-4-16
1161     11-20-2000  1-1-19 -
                     1-1-21
1162     11-20-2000  38-2-16,
                     38-2-21
1166     1-2-2001    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1168     1-2-2001    40-4-16
1169     1-2-2001    40-3-17
1170     1-22-2001   30-5-1
                     34-1-1 -
                     34-1-10,
                     34-1-12 -
                     34-1-15,
1175     2-19-2001   34-3-5,
                     34-3-17,
                     34-4-7,
                     34-5-8,
                     34-6-1
1177     3-19-2001   6-4-1 -
                     6-4-4
                     38-4-1 -
                     38-4-3,
                     38-4-5 -
                     38-4-15,
                     38-4-18 -
                     38-4-20,
                     38-4-22,
                     38-4-24 -
1178     3-19-2001   38-4-31,
                     38-4-36,
                     38-4-37,
                     38-4-40 -
                     38-4-45,
                     38-4-51 -
                     38-4-63,
                     38-4-66 -
                     38-4-71
1179     4-2-2001    40-12-7
1187     5-7-2001    40-3-1,
                     40-9-1
1188     5-21-2001   1-2-1 -
                     1-2-10
1189     5-21-2001   40-4-21
1190     5-21-2001   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1192     7-23-2001   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
1193     8-27-2001   1-4-2 -
                     1-4-6
1194     9-17-2001   40-2-3; Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1208     11-26-2001  1-2-2
1209     12-26-2001  38-1-17,
                     38-1-36
1210     12-26-2001  38-4-36
1211     12-26-2001  38-3-52,
                     38-3-64
                     38-2-5,
                     38-2-6,
1212     12-26-2001  38-2-18,
                     38-2-22,
                     38-2-26
1213     12-17-2001  16-1-15
1214     12-17-2001  38-1-16,
                     38-2-2
                     38-1-18,
1215     12-26-2001  38-1-19,
                     38-2-25,
                     38-4-16
1217B    12-26-2001  34-5-7
                     34-3-4,
                     34-4-1 -
1219     3-18-2002   34-4-3,
                     34-4-7,
                     34-5-8
1221     3-25-2002   30-5-1
1225     5-20-2002   38-1-20,
                     38-1-26
1226     5-20-2002   38-2-21,
                     38-2-31
1227     5-20-2002   38-3-65,
                     38-3-68
1228     5-20-2002   38-4-37
1230     5-20-2002   12-1-1 -
                     12-1-4
1234     7-1-2002    40-11-1
                     36-2-1,
1236     9-3-2002    36-5-1 -
                     36-5-7
1237     9-3-2002    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1242     10-21-2002  6-5-1 -
                     6-5-3
1243     10-21-2002  6-1-1 -
                     6-1-3
1244     11-18-2002  24-6-3; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1247     12-23-2002  38-2-17
1248     12-23-2002  3-1-1,
                     3-1-16
                     34-1-7,
                     34-3-4,
                     34-4-7,
                     34-4-9,
1250     4-21-2003   34-4-11,
                     34-4-12,
                     34-4-16,
                     34-4-17,
                     34-4-20 -
                     34-4-22
1254     4-7-2003    40-4-15
1257     6-23-2003   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1266     8-4-2003    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1267     8-25-2003   38-4-36
1273     9-15-2003   34-5-9
1274     10-6-2003   12-1-1
1278     3-15-2004   34-1-17,
                     34-3-5, 34-5-5
1287     3-1-2004    Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1291     4-19-2004   38-2-22
1293     4-19-2004   40-12-2
                     6-1-2,
1296     5-3-2004    6-5-2,
                     40-4-3,
                     40-4-22
1300     6-7-2004    1-2-2
1301     6-21-2004   38-1-20,
                     38-1-23
1302     6-21-2004   38-3-65,
                     38-3-68
1304     6-28-2004   34-5-5
                     12-1-1,
                     34-1-11,
1321     11-15-2004  34-5-8,
                     34-6-1 -
                     34-6-6
1323     11-22-2004  40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
                     40-9-1,
1333     4-25-2005   40-13-1 -
                     40-13-4
1341     6-20-2005   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Scheds. A - C
1343     9-19-2005   38-3-54
1350     10-3-2005   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
                     40-2-3;
1354     11-7-2005   Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
                     40-13-3
1359     12-19-2005  38-1-18
1360     12-19-2005  38-2-11,
                     38-2-25
                     38-3-50,
1361     12-19-2005  38-3-61,
                     38-3-65
                     38-4-16,
1362     12-19-2005  38-4-36,
                     38-4-37,
                     38-4-39
1363     1-3-2006    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1364     1-3-2006    6-2-1
                     34-4-6,
1378     6-26-2006   34-4-15,
                     34-4-16, 34-5-5
1379     8-7-2006    1-1-19
                     38-1-40,
1380     8-7-2006    38-2-32,
                     38-3-82,
                     38-4-72
1381     8-7-2006    3-1-1,
                     3-1-19
1383     8-21-2006   33-7-5
1384     9-25-2006   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1394     11-27-2006  38-2-17
1400     12-4-2006   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
1401     12-4-2006   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
1409     12-27-2006  39-1-1
1423     2-20-2007   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
                     40-2-3;
1424     2-26-2007   Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
                     40-4-15
1433     5-21-2007   12-1-1
1434     5-21-2007   30-2-3
1435     6-18-2007   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1436     6-25-2007   5-1-3,
                     5-1-4
1438     7-2-2007    34-5-2
                     38-3-50,
1441     7-23-2007   38-4-36,
                     38-4-39
1445     8-6-2007    1-2-29
1446     8-6-2007    6-1-2
1449     8-27-2007   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A; Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1455     11-5-2007   40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1456     11-5-2007   40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1457     11-19-2007  40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1458     11-26-2007  40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
                     6-1-1,
                     6-1-2,
1460     1-21-2008   6-1-3,
                     6-5-1,
                     6-5-2,
                     6-5-3
1462     12-17-2007  21-3-1
1465     1-7-2008    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1466     1-28-2008   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
1468     2-4-2008    38-3-31
1469     3-17-2008   6-1-2
1470     3-24-2008   38-4-36
1477     6-2-2008    33-4-4,
                     33-4-6
1479     6-16-2008   6-6-1 -
                     6-6-6
1482     6-23-2008   1-2-98
                     40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
1483     7-7-2008    40-4-15,
                     40-7-5,
                     40-11-2,
                     40-11-3
1486     7-21-2008   38-3-65
                     38-1-18,
1487     8-18-2008   38-2-25,
                     38-3-61,
                     38-4-16
1488     8-25-2008   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1489     8-25-2008   38-4-36
                     40-4-2,
1491     9-2-2008    40-4-3,
                     40-4-15, Ch. 40, Art. IV, Figure 1,
                     40-6-14
                     29-1-1 -
                     29-1-14,
                     29-2-1,
1492     9-15-2008   29-2-2,
                     29-3-1,
                     29-3-2,
                     29-4-1,
                     29-5-1
1493     9-15-2008   12-1-1
1495     10-27-2008  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. B
1496     11-3-2008   7-1-10
1497     11-3-2008   25-1-1
                     38-1-17,
1499     12-1-2008   38-2-26,
                     38-3-62,
                     38-4-17
1500     12-1-2008   27-1-21
1504     3-16-2009   40-12-2
                     40-1-15,
1507     4-6-2009    40-4-15,
                     40-4-16
1510     5-4-2009    27-6-1 -
                     27-6-4
1513     5-26-2009   38-3-54
1514     6-15-2009   1-2-92
1522     8-24-2009   6-7-1 -
                     6-7-3
                     29-2-2,
1524     9-8-2009    29-4-1,
                     29-6-1
1525     9-8-2009    33-2-18
1526     9-8-2009    12-1-1
                     34-1-7,
                     34-3-4,
                     34-4-3,
                     34-4-4,
                     34-4-6,
1527     9-8-2009    34-4-7,
                     34-4-15,
                     34-5-1 -
                     34-5-3,
                     34-5-5 -
                     34-5-9
                     38-1-18,
1528     9-21-2009   38-2-25,
                     38-3-61,
                     38-4-16
1532     10-26-2009  34-5-8
                     1-1-20,
                     3-1-19,
                     6-2-2,
                     6-3-5,
                     6-4-2,
                     14-1-12,
                     15-1-5,
                     21-3-25,
                     21-4-10,
                     23-1-15,
1535     10-26-2009  24-6-6,
                     24-7-14,
                     25-1-3,
                     27-5-5,
                     29-3-5,
                     34-1-12,
                     34-1-13,
                     36-3-7,
                     36-4-8,
                     38-3-42,
                     38-3-44,
                     40-1-11
1538     12-7-2009   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1539     1-18-2010   12-1-1
1544     4-5-2010    6-5-2
1545     4-5-2010    34-4-15
                     29-1-5,
1548     4-26-2010   29-1-8,
                     29-1-13
1549     5-17-2010   38-4-36
1550     6-21-2010   40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1551     6-21-2010   7-7-1 -
                     7-7-21
1552     6-28-2010   40-13-3
1553     6-28-2010   29-1-7
1554     7-6-2010    27-6-1 -
                     27-6-4
1557     8-2-2010    1-2-29
1558     9-7-2010    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1559     10-4-2010   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1562     10-4-2010   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
                     7-8-1 -
1563     10-18-2010  7-8-9,
                     12-1-1,
                     21-3-7
1564     10-25-2010  1-2-92
                     40-1-15, 
1570     2-7-2011    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1573     2-28-2011   34-4-16
1574     2-28-2011   27-1-22
1578     4-18-2011   25-1-1
1586     9-6-2011    38-2-6,
                     38-2-22
1587     10-24-2011  12-1-5
1588     10-24-2011  33-2-10
                     40-2-3;
1591     1-3-2012    Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
                     40-6-14
1594     1-23-2012   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1596     3-5-2012    33-5-3,
                     33-9-1
                     34-1-7,
                     34-3-5,
1597     3-5-2012    34-3-15,
                     34-4-6,
                     34-4-15
1598     2-27-2012   21-3-11
1599     2-27-2012   33-2-9,
                     33-2-12
1600     3-26-2012   33-2-9,
                     33-2-12
1604     4-23-2012   38-1-20,
                     38-1-21
1605     4-23-2012   38-2-21
1606     4-23-2012   38-3-65
1607     4-23-2012   38-4-37
1608     7-2-2012    40-3-6
1609     5-29-2012   1-2-160 -
                     1-2-163
1614     7-23-2012   6-5-3
1615     7-23-2012   33-7-5
1616     11-5-2012   34-1-9
1617     11-5-2012   38-4-36
                     12-1-1,
                     40-1-15,
                     40-2-1,
                     40-2-3,
1621     12-3-2012   40-2-10;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A;
                     40-5-10,
                     40-6-14,
                     40-11-2,
                     40-12-2
1623     1-7-2013    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1624     1-21-2013   28-1-1 -
                     28-1-8
1625     1-28-2013   38-2-27
1626     2-19-2013   27-1-22
1627     4-1-2013    40-1-15,
                     40-2-3
1628     2-25-2013   5-4-1,
                     5-4-2
1639     5-6-2013    6-1-2
1640     5-20-2013   40-4-15
                     38-1-15,
1651     9-16-2013   38-2-11,
                     38-4-10
1652     9-16-2013   38-3-31
1653     11-18-2013  38-4-21
1655     1-20-2014   38-4-21
1656     1-27-2014   1-2-92
1658     3-17-2014   40-2-3
1662     4-21-2014   40-2-3
1663     4-21-2014   40-3-8
1670     9-15-2014   1-3-1
1671     9-22-2014   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1672     9-22-2014   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
                     40-1-15,
1673     11-17-2014  40-2-3,
                     40-6-14
1677     2-23-2015   40-1-15,
                     40-2-3
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Scheds.
1682     5-4-2015    A,
                     C
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Scheds.
1683     5-4-2015    A,
                     C
1684     6-15-2015   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. J
1686     9-28-2015   40-3-2
1689     10-26-2015  24-2-9
1694     1-4-2016    1-2-92
                     34-1-1 -
                     34-1-17,
                     34-2-1 -
                     34-2-5,
                     34-3-1 -
1696     3-21-2016   34-3-21,
                     34-4-1 -
                     34-4-28,
                     34-5-1 -
                     34-5-9,
                     34-6-1 -
                     34-6-6
1697     3-28-2016   38-1-36
1701     4-25-2016   1-2-2
1703     8-15-2016   3-1-1 -
                     3-1-19
1704     8-15-2016   25-1-1
1707     11-21-2016  7-5-1
1708     1-3-2017    38-4-36
1709     1-16-2017   1-2-92
1710     1-16-2017   7-5-1 -
                     7-5-3
1711     1-16-2017   40-3-2
1712     1-16-2017   40-2-3 ;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1713     2-6-2017    38-1-36
1714     2-6-2017    38-1-9
1717     2-21-2017   12-1-1
1719     4-3-2017    7-9-1,
                     7-9-2
1720     4-3-2017    7-10-1 -
                     7-10-11
1721     4-3-2017    12-1-1
1722     4-3-2017    40-1-15
1723     4-3-2017    6-1-2
                     33-7-1,
1726     5-1-2017    33-7-4 -
                     33-7-6
1727     5-1-2017    21-1-1
1729     7-3-2017    6-1-1 -
                     6-1-3
1730     7-3-2017    30-2-9
1732     7-3-2017    7-10-1
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Scheds.
1735     8-21-2017   A,
                     C
1736     10-16-2017  24-6-3
1737     10-16-2017  27-4-5
1739     11-20-2017  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched.
                     A
1740     12-4-2017   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched.
                     D
1742     12-18-2017  7-5-1 -
                     7-5-5
1743     1-2-2018    40-3-17
1744     1-2-2018    1-2-29
1746     1-15-2018   34-3-5
1747     1-15-2018   21-2-6
1749     2-5-2018    38-1-38
1750     2-5-2018    38-3-31
1751     2-20-2018   6-1-2,
                     6-5-2
1752     2-20-2018   7-10-2
                     38-1-4,
1755     4-16-2018   38-2-10,
                     38-4-15
1757     5-7-2018    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1758     6-4-2018    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1759     7-16-2018   29-6-1
1760     7-16-2018   6-8-1 -
                     6-8-6
1761     8-6-2018    40-4-3
1762     9-4-2018    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1763     9-4-2018    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1764     9-17-2018   1-2-170 -
                     1-2-173
1767     11-19-2018  27-7-1 -
                     27-7-6
1768     12-3-2018   38-4-23
1769     12-3-2018   6-8-7
1773     12-17-2018  38-1-36
1774     3-4-2019    40-7-5,
                     40-13-4
1775     3-4-2019    40-9-10
1781     5-6-2019    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1784     5-20-2019   1-2-92
                     27-7-1,
1787     8-5-2019    27-7-3 -
                     27-7-5
1790     11-4-2019   7-11-1 -
                     7-11-4
1800     6-1-2020    6-1-2
1803     9-21-2020   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
1804     10-19-2020  7-10-1,
                     7-10-2
1805     11-19-2020  Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1816     3-1-2021    38-3-65
1822     4-19-2021   5-1-4
1823     5-17-2021   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
                     40-1-15,
1824     6-7-2021    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1826A    6-21-2021   38-1-18
                     7-10-1 -
1826     7-6-2021    7-10-9,
                     7-10-11
1827     7-6-2021    27-1-18
1828     7-6-2021    30-4-13
1830     8-16-2021   40-7-5,
                     40-9-10
1836     12-20-2021  12-1-1
1837     2-7-2022    38-2-17
1838     2-7-2022    40-4-15
1844     3-21-2022   40-4-3
1845     3-21-2022   40-3-2
1848     5-2-2022    38-1-36
1849     5-2-2022    40-1-15
1850     5-2-2022    40-1-15
1851     6-6-2022    40-1-15
1852     6-6-2022    30-5-1
1853     7-5-2022    40-9-11
1854     7-18-2022   7-2-1 -
                     7-2-11
1855     7-18-2022   7-10-1 -
                     7-10-12
1856     7-18-2022   27-1-23
                     Ch. 24, Art. VIII,
1860     8-15-2022   Scheds. A,
                     C
1861     9-6-2022    1-2-92
1863     10-17-2022  1-3-1
                     40-2-3,
1864     11-7-2022   40-3-2,
                     40-4-10 ;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1868     1-3-2023    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1869     1-3-2023    40-2-3;
                     Ch. 40, Art. II, Appx. A
1870     2-6-2023    38-4-36
1874     4-17-2023   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1876     5-15-2023   38-4-71
1878     6-5-2023    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1879     7-17-2023   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. C
1882     10-2-2023   6-5-2 
1887     2-20-2024   Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. D
                     1-2-110 -
1888     2-20-2024   1-2-117,
                     1-2-120 -
                     1-2-128
                     6-1-2,
                     29-1-1 -
                     29-1-14,
                     29-2-1,
1889     4-1-2024    29-2-2,
                     29-3-1,
                     29-3-2,
                     29-4-1,
                     29-5-1,
                     29-6-1
1893     9-3-2024    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1894     9-3-2024    Ch. 24, Art. VIII, Sched. A
1896     12-2-2024   38-1-38
1898     9-9-2025    36-4-1
1906     5-5-2025    7-10-1
1907     5-5-2025    1-2-59, 1-2-61
                    
 
