VILLAGE CODE
of
WATERMAN, ILLINOIS
2005
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-02, passed 2-11-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Waterman, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-02, passed February 11, 2025. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-06
 
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 1, CHAPTER 2, AND CHAPTER 9 – ARTICLE A.
 
PLANNING COMMISSION, BOARD OF APPEALS, ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
 
 
 
 
ADOPTED BY THE VILLAGE BOARD OF THE
VILLAGE OF WATERMAN THIS 9th DAY OF
SEPTEMBER 2025.
 
 
 
 
 
Published by authority of the Village Board of the Village of Waterman, DeKalb
County, Illinois, this 9th day of September 2025 A.D.
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-06
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 1 “PLANNING COMMISSION,” CHAPTER 2 “BOARD OF
APPEALS,” AND CHAPTER 9, ARTICLE A “ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.”
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, as follows:
 
SECTION 1. That Chapter 1 “Planning Commission,” Chapter 2 “Board of Appeals,”
and Chapter 9, Article A “Zoning Board of Appeals.” of the Village of Waterman
Municipal Code is hereby amended to include the following:
 
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION/BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Composition; Appointment
2-1-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-1-3: Compensation; Expenses
2-1-4: Organization And Rules
2-1-5: Meetings And Hearings
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7:
2-1-7: Recommendations To Board Of Trustees
2-1-8: Joint Meetings
2-1-1: CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a planning commission for the village which shall
consist of a chairman and six (6) other members. The village president shall be
an ex officio member of the planning commission. The seven (7) members shall be
appointed by the village president with the consent of the majority of the
elected members of the village board of trustees. Members of the planning
commission shall reside within the corporate limits of the village of Waterman
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
within any other municipality. Membership on the planning commission , zoning /
board of appeals or building board of appeals shall not preclude membership on
any of the other above referenced commissions or boards. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-
2006)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
A. The village president's term as ex officio member of the planning commission
shall be concurrent with his term of office as village president. The members
of the planning commission shall serve four year terms. as follows: for the
initial appointments, one for one year; one for two (2) years; one for three
(3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5) years; one for six (6)
years; and one for seven (7) years. Successors to each member so appointed
shall serve for a term of five (5) years.
B. The original appointment shall designate the term of office of each person
so appointed. The terms of all officers expire on the first Monday in May in
the last year of their respective terms, regardless of the actual date of
appointment, but the member whose term is expiring shall continue to hold his
office until his successor is appointed as provided for herein. Vacancies shall
only be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-
2006)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
A. Compensation: All members of the planning commission/board of appeals shall
serve without compensation; except, that if the board of trustees deems it
advisable, the members of the planning commission/board of appeals may receive
such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by said board and provided
for in the appropriation ordinance.
B. Expenses: All expenses incurred by the planning commission/board of appeals
shall be provided for by annual appropriation from the village funds at the
discretion of the village board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning
commission/board of appeals shall meet, organize, elect a chairman, vice
chairman and a secretary and such other officers as they may deem necessary and
adopt and later change or alter rules and regulations, organization and
procedures consistent with the provisions of this chapter and state laws. The
commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open
at all times to public inspection , and shall also file an annual report with
the village president and board of trustees, setting forth its transactions and
recommendations. The rules and regulations of the planning commission shall be
filed in the office of the village clerk and may be amended at any meeting. The
rules are effective upon filing in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 2006-
15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-5: MEETINGS AND HEARINGS:
The planning commission/board of appeals may provide for regular or special
meetings as it shall deem necessary. Special meetings may be held on call of
the chairman or some member of the planning commission/board of appeals acting
in his stead. The chairman or some member of the planning commission/board of
appeals acting in his stead shall also be responsible for calling any public
hearings required to be held before the planning commission/board of appeals,
and shall call any such public hearing within the time frames required by
applicable law. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
The planning commission/board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, a notice of which shall be published at least once, not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the community. This notice shall
contain the particular location for which the variation is requested as well as
a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists of.
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission/board of appeals shall have the following powers and
duties:
A. To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees a comprehensive plan of
public improvements looking to the present and future improvements of the
village. Such plan, after adoption by the board of trustees, will be known as
the "comprehensive plan for the village of Waterman". Such plan shall include
reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys and public grounds
within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits and not included
in any municipality. Such requirements shall be effective whenever such lands
shall be subdivided after adoption of such plan.
B. To recommend from time to time changes in any comprehensive plan adopted by
the board of trustees.
C. To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees from time to time plans
and specific improvements in pursuance of such comprehensive plan.
D. To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction of
improvements embraced within the comprehensive plan and to further the making
of such comprehensive plan.
E. To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities for
general purposes of public understanding.
F. To hold public hearings on applications for amendments to the zoning
regulations. The commission shall not have the authority to make changes or
amendments to the zoning regulations; it shall act in a purely advisory manner
to the village board, making its recommendations in all cases referred to it
and transmitting them to the board for final action.
G. To hold public hearings on applications for special use permits provided for
within the zoning regulations and to transmit its recommended action to the
village board for final action.
H. To hold public hearings on variance applications in cases where there are
practical difficulties or particular hardships and to transmit its recommended
action to the village board for final action.
1. A completed application form must be filled out and presented to the Zoning
Administrator, along with a plat of survey showing the location and dimensions
of the property lines, along with a plat of survey showing the location and
dimensions of the property lines, easements and buildings on the property, a
legal description, the location and dimensions of the proposed use or
construction, any other support documentation that may be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
2. When the application is completed and accepted, a public hearing will be
scheduled and all property owners adjacent to the property will receive
notification from the Village summarizing the requested variation and invite
them to attend the public hearing.
3. The public hearing will include “Findings of Fact.” Before any variation is
granted, the planning commission/zoning board of appeals must make a findings
of fact considering the following factors:
a.   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
b.   The extent to which the property values are diminished by a zoning
restriction;
c.   The extent to which the destruction of property values promotes the
health, safety, morals, or general welfare of the public;
d.   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship imposed upon
the individual property owner;
e.   The suitability of the subject property for the zoning purposes;
f.   The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned, considered in
the context of land development in the area of the subject property;
g.   The evidence of community need for the use proposed; and
h.   The care with which the community has undertaken to plan its land use
development.
4. Fee: In order to partially defray the expense of public hearings involving
variations, the applicant shall pay the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00)
to the village treasurer at the time of filing the appeal for the variance 1.
(Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
I. To exercise such other powers as may be provided by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-7: RECOMMENDATIONS TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The village board of trustees shall take no action authorizing or approving the
acquisition, construction or alteration of any street, park, public way,
ground, space of public building or structure, map, plat or replat of land
lying within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory
one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits or changing any fire,
building or use zones or accepting the dedication of any public streets or
grounds until such contemplated action shall have first been submitted to the
planning commission/board of appeals for its recommendation. If the planning
commission/board of appeals shall fail to submit its recommendation to the
village board of trustees within twenty one (21) days of the last planning
commission/board of appeals meeting at which the matter in question was
considered, the village board of trustees may proceed without the same. When
receiving a variance recommendation from the planning commission/zoning board
of appeals, the village board, without further public hearing, may adopt or
deny any proposed variation or may refer the report back to the zoning board of
appeals for further consideration. (Ord. 2006-15,11-14-2006)
2-1-8: JOINT MEETINGS:
In addition to those powers previously granted, the building board of appeals,
zoning board of appeals and the planning commission are empowered to hold joint
meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by the chairs of said boards
and commissions. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
 
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Meetings And Procedures
9-3A-2: Powers
9-3A-3: Appeals
9-3A-4: Hearing; Action By Village Board
9-3A-5: Judicial Review Of Board Decisions
Notes
1 1. See also section 2-2-2 of this code.
9-3A-1: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
Meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or
in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote, or failure to
vote, of each member upon every question, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. All board of appeals action shall be a
matter of public record. (1999 Code § 5.44)
9-3A-2: POWERS:
The zoning board of appeals shall have the following powers:
A. Interpretation And Administrative Review: To hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged that there is an error in any action by the zoning official or
other administrative official in carrying out the provisions of this title and
for interpretation of the zoning maps.
B. Variations: To hear and decide on applications for a variation in cases
where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the way of
carrying out the provisions of this title.
1. Findings Of Fact: Before any variation is granted, the zoning board of
appeals must make a finding of fact that all of the following conditions are
shown to be present:
a. The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be
used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone;
b. The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
c. A variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality.
2. Conditions Of Variance: In granting a variation, the zoning board of appeals
may attach thereto any conditions and safeguards it deems necessary or
desirable in furthering the purposes of this title. Violation of any of these
conditions or safeguards shall be deemed a violation of this title.
3. Limitations On Board Powers: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
give or grant to the zoning board of appeals the power or authority to permit a
use not generally permitted in the district involved. (1999 Code § 5.46)
4. Fee: In order to partially defray the expense of public hearings involving
variations, the applicant shall pay the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00)
to the village treasurer at the time of filing the appeal for the variance 1 .
(Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
Notes
1 1. See section 9-3-5 of this title for recovery of costs.
9-3A-3: APPEALS:
A. Right To Appeal: An appeal to the zoning board of appeals may be taken by
any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination by
any governmental officer, department, board or bureau based in whole or in part
upon the provisions of this title.
B. Filing Appeal: Such appeal shall be filed with the zoning official and the
zoning board of appeals within twenty (20) days of the action appealed from.
Upon appeal, the zoning official shall immediately transmit to the zoning board
of appeals all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. (1999 Code § 5.45)
C. Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the zoning official certifies to the board that a
stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this
event, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the zoning board of appeals or by a circuit court
on application and on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and
on due cause shown.
D. Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, a notice of which shall be published at least once, not
more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing in a
newspaper of general circulation within the community. This notice shall
contain the particular location for which the variation is requested as well as
a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
E. Decision: The concurring vote of the majority of the zoning board of appeals
is necessary to reverse any order, requirement or decision of an administrative
official or to decide in favor of the applicant. (1999 Code § 5.45; amd. 2005
Code)
9-3A-4: HEARING; ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD:
A. No variation in any case shall be made by the village board without a
hearing by the zoning board of appeals as required herein nor without a report
thereof having been made by the zoning board of appeals to the village board,
and every report shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the
reasons for the reported recommendations.
B. Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals, the village board, without
further public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may refer
the report back to the zoning board of appeals for further consideration.
C. No order for a variation permitting the erection or alteration of a building
shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(2005 Code)
9-3A-5: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS:
All final administrative decisions of the zoning board of appeals shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the administrative review act, approved
May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereto and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto 1 . (1999 Code § 5.46)
 
 
CHAPTER 2
BOARDS OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Clarification Of Jurisdiction
2-2-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
2-2-3: Building Board Of Appeals
2-2-1: CLARIFICATION OF JURISDICTION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the location and height of a garage is
considered a zoning issue, whereas the construction requirements are considered
a building code issue. The appeals process for each may differ. Zoning issues
are handled as variances to the zoning code, title 9 of this code, and heard by
the zoning board of appeals. Building code issues are generally appeals related
to decisions or rulings by the code official, title 8, "Building Regulations",
of this code and are heard by the building board of appeals. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-
14-2006)
2-2-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
A. Board Established: A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized in
accordance with division 13 of the Illinois municipal code.
B. Composition; Appointment; Terms; Removals; Vacancies: The board of appeals
shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by the mayor and with the
consent of the board of trustees. The members of the board of appeals shall
serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one for one year; one for two
(2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five (5)
years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. Successors to each
member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. One of the
members so appointed shall be named chairman at the time of his appointment.
The appointing authority has the power to remove any member of the board for
cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose place has become vacant. Members of the zoning board
of appeals shall reside within the corporate limits of the village of Waterman
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
within any other municipality. Membership on the plan commission, zoning board
of appeals or building board of appeals shall not preclude membership on any of
the other above referenced commissions or boards.
C. Jurisdiction And Authority: The board of appeals is hereby vested with the
following jurisdiction and authority:
1. To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning official under title 9 of this code.
2. To hear and pass upon applications for variances from the terms provided in
title 9 of this code in the manner prescribed by, and subject to, the standards
established therein.
D. Meetings And Rules:
1. Meetings; Hearing: Public hearings shall be conducted by the board or a
majority of its members thereof and shall be open to the public. Any person may
appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent
or attorney.
2. Records: A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the zoning official and shall be a public record.
3. Rules And Procedures: The board shall adopt its own rules and procedures,
not in conflict with title 9 of this code or with the applicable Illinois
statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it deems necessary.
4. Joint Meetings: In addition to those powers previously granted, the building
board of appeals, zoning board of appeals and the planning commission are
empowered to hold joint meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by the
chairs of said boards and commissions. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 3, article A of this code.
2-2-3: BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS:
A. Board Established; Qualifications: A building board of appeals is hereby
authorized in accordance with the building code, title 8 of this code.
B. Composition; Appointment; Terms; Removals; Vacancies: The building board of
appeals shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by the mayor and
with the consent of the board of trustees. The members of the board of appeals
shall serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one for one year; one for
two (2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five
(5) years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. Successors to
each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. One of the
members so appointed shall be named chairman at the time of his appointment.
The appointing authority has the power to remove any member of the board for
cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose place has become vacant. Members of the building board
of appeals shall reside within the corporate limits of the village of Waterman
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
within any other municipality. Membership on the plan commission, zoning board
of appeals or building board of appeals shall not preclude membership on any of
the other above referenced commissions or boards.
C. Jurisdiction: To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning official and/or code official
under title 8 of this code.
D. Meetings And Procedures: Meetings of the building board of appeals shall be
held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may
determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall
be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote, or failure to vote, of each member upon every question, and shall
keep records of its examinations and other official actions. All board of
appeals action shall be a matter of public record. In addition to those powers
previously granted, the building board of appeals, zoning board of appeals and
the planning commission are empowered to hold joint meetings where it is deemed
appropriate to do so by the chairs of said boards and commissions.
E. Fee: In order to partially defray the expense of the building board of
appeals hearings, the applicant shall pay the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to the village treasurer at the time of filing the appeal.
F. Appeal And Hearing Procedures:
1. Right To Appeal; Application: A person shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the building code official to the building board of appeals. The
application shall be filed on a form obtained from the code official within
thirty (30) days after the notice was served.
2. Meeting For Appeal: The board shall meet upon notice from the chairman,
within fourteen (14) days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated periodic
meetings.
3. Open Hearing: All hearings before the building board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official, and
any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
4. Procedure: The board shall adopt and make available to the public through
the secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
5. Postponed Hearing: When a quorum is not present to hear an appeal, the
matter shall be continued to another date convenient to all parties.
6. Board Decisions: The building board of appeals shall uphold, modify, or
reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of the majority
of members present at the meeting. The decision of the board shall be by
resolution. Certified copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the
building code official.
7. Administration: The building code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the board.
8. Court Review: Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal,
shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari
to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in the manner
and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the office of
the chief administrative officer. For any court review to which the
administrative review law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
applies, the provisions of that law shall govern to the extent that they may be
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The Board
of Trustees of the Village of Waterman hereby declares that it would have
passed this Ordinance, and each section, subsection, clause, or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, and phrases be declared unconstitutional. Nothing in this Ordinance
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or Ordinance hereby repealed in this
Ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired, or affected by this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 3. Any policy, resolution, or ordinance that conflicts with the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be and is hereby repealed to the extent of
such conflict.
 
SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after it
passage, approval, and publication, as is provided by law.
                                               AYE NAY
WADE: _______ _______
PEARSON: _______ _______
GENSLINGER: _______ _______
RADTKE: _______ _______
JOHANNINGSMEIER: _______ _______
JAY: _______ _______
 
APPROVED this 9th day of September 2025 A.D.
 
 
 
 
Anton Feitlich, Village President
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
 
Abigail Penton, Village Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATE
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   ) SS.
COUNTY OF DEKALB   )
                                                                                                                       
           I, Abigail Penton, certify that I am the duly appointed and acting
municipal clerk of the Village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois.
           I further certify that on September 9, 2025, the Corporate
Authorities of such municipality passed and approved Ordinance No. 2025-06,
entitled “AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 1, CHAPTER 2, and CHAPTER 9-ARTICLE A”,
which provided by its terms that it should be published in pamphlet form.
           The pamphlet form of Ordinance No. 2025-06 including the Ordinance
and a cover sheet thereof prepared, and a copy of such Ordinance was posted in
the Village Hall, commencing on September 9, 2025, and continuing for at least
ten days thereafter. Copies of such Ordinance were also available for public
inspection upon request in the office of the municipal clerk.
           Dated at Waterman, Illinois, this 9th day of September 2025.
 
 
 
(SEAL)
 
 
____________________________________
Abigail Penton, Village Clerk 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2005-06
BE IT ORDAINED by the president and the board of trustees of the village of
Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, that:
SECTION 1. Pursuant to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3, and from and after
the date of passage of this ordinance, the village code of the village of
Waterman, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. in 2005 containing the
compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the
village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code
and law of the village as enacted by the village president and board of
trustees.
SECTION 2. All ordinances of a general nature included in this official village
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official village code. All ordinances and
annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the village code. Such
ordinances are not included in the official village code.
SECTION 3. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to change
or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such village code,
or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such village code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the
village to be misrepresented thereby.
SECTION 4. VALIDITY: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith
are to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. This code is intended to,
and shall, replace the 1999 codification previously known as the "Waterman
municipal code."
SECTION 5. ORDINANCE IN FORCE:
(a) This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
ADOPTED this 13th day of December, 2005, pursuant to roll call vote as follows:
AYES:   5
NAYS:   0
Absent:   1
APPROVED this 13th day of December, 2005.
                                         
Clidea Lave, Village President
ATTEST:
                                         
Kathy Bock, Village Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Official Village Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Definitions   3
General Penalty   4
Miscellaneous Administrative Provisions   5
Village President Compensation   6
Village Board Of Trustees Compensation   7
Village Officers And Employees   8
Village Clerk   8A
Village Treasurer   8B
Village Attorney   8C
Village Engineer   8D
Village Manager   8E
Ethics   9
Village Finances   10
Tax Rights And Responsibilities   11
Redevelopment Projects; Tax Increment Allocation   12
Satisfaction Of Municipal Debts   13
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the village board of trustees, this village code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of
Waterman. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
WATERMAN VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of
trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation
of the village as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this village code by title in any legal documents. (2005 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2005 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this village code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, if any, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this village code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the village code. (2005 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this village code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances And Resolutions
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Ordinances And Resolutions Repealed And Saved From Repeal: All general
ordinances and resolutions of the village passed prior to the adoption of this
village code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this village
code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances and resolutions which are not hereby repealed:
      1.   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the village or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village
or any evidence of the village's indebtedness;
      2.   Tax levy ordinances or any ordinance levying special assessments;
      3.   Appropriation ordinances or resolutions providing for the levy of
taxes or for an annual budget;
      4.   Any ordinance annexing territory to the village or excluding
territory as part of the village;
      5.   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit or other
right to persons or corporations;
      6.   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument;
      7.   Ordinances relating to salaries of village officers or employees;
      8.   Ordinances establishing, naming, renaming, opening, accepting or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
      9.   Improvement ordinances;
      10.   Ordinances relating to elections;
      11.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the village;
      12.   Any ordinance whose purpose has been accomplished;
      13.   Any ordinance which is special although permanent in effect;
      14.   Any ordinance which is temporary although general in effect, and
all such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein; and
      15.   Any other special ordinances not in conflict with the provisions of
this code. (1999 Code § 1.03; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Limitations On Repeal: The repeal of the ordinances, as provided in
subsection A of this section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2005 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village code or by virtue of
section
1-2-1 of this chapter, excepting as the village code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this village code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2005 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect. (2005 Code)
   B.   Continuation Of Uses: The adoption of this code shall not be
interpreted as authorizing or allowing any use or the continuance of any use of
a structure or premises in violation of any ordinance of the village in effect
on the date of adoption of this code. (1999 Code § 1.04)
   C.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   D.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this village code. (2005 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this village code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The village board of
trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2005 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Application Of Provisions
1-3-2: Construction Of Words
1-3-3: Definitions
1-3-4: Catchlines
1-3-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this chapter shall be observed unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the village board of
trustees. The rules of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be
applied to any section of this code which shall contain any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter of the context of such
section may be repugnant thereto. (1999 Code § 1.02)
1-3-2: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village board of trustees may be fully
carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and
general welfare.
   C.   Greater Restrictions: Where any provision of this code imposes greater
restrictions upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the
code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be
deemed to be controlling.
   D.   Computation Of Time: The time within which any act provided by this
code is to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, unless the last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a legal holiday, in
which case, it shall also be excluded. If the day succeeding such Saturday,
Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then such
succeeding day shall also be excluded.
   E.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   F.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   G.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   H.   May/Shall/Must: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory; the word "must" is mandatory.
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Waterman".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this village code to "title",
"chapter", "section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for
organizational and clarification purposes only. Such change to the village's
ordinances is not meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original
ordinances.
   N.   Footnotes: Footnotes show similar subject matter, statute references or
directs the reader to a specific section that is implied in the text. (1999
Code § 1.02; amd. 2005 Code)
1-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   BOARD, BOARD OF TRUSTEES, VILLAGE BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the
village board of trustees of the village of Waterman.
   CIRCUIT COURT: The circuit court of the sixteenth judicial circuit, DeKalb
County, Illinois.
   CODE: The village code of the village of Waterman.
   CORPORATE LIMITS, VILLAGE LIMITS: The legal boundaries of the village of
Waterman.
   COUNTY: The county of Dekalb, state of Illinois.
   FISCAL AND MUNICIPAL YEAR: The fiscal and municipal year of the village
shall commence on May 1 of each year and end on April 30 of the next year.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MONTH: Calendar month.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OATH: To include an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases, the words
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding
a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, trust, estate, club,
association or corporation. As applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof; as applied to corporations, it
includes the officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for the
act referred to.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and
every right or interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The state of Illinois.
   STREET: Shall include streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts and all other public ways in the village and shall include all areas
thereof embraced between the property lines and dedicated to the public use.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person holding a
written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of such building or
land, either alone or with others.
   VILLAGE: The village of Waterman, county of DeKalb, state of Illinois.
   WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined,
shall be understood and held to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale, as
distinguished from a retail dealer who sells in smaller quantities directly to
the consumer.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
   YEAR: A calendar year. (1999 Code §§ 1.02, 2.09; amd. 2005 Code)
1-3-4: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the village code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1999 Code § 1.06; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-4: Enforcement Of Provisions
1-4-5: Collected Fines To Clerk
1-4-6: Civil Liability
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed: Whenever in this code, or in any ordinance of
the village, any act or omission is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or an offense or a violation of this code, or whenever in such code or
ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful or an offense or a violation of this code, where no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any ordinance is hereby declared to be an offense and shall be
punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day or part thereof on which a violation occurs or continues
or is permitted to occur or continue.
In addition to any and all penalties for violation of the village ordinances
provided in this code, anyone found to have violated any provisions of this
code shall be responsible for any and all costs the village incurs in enforcing
the terms of this code including, but not limited to, costs and expenses
incurred by the village for law enforcement including any overtime or costs to
call in off duty officers and any damage to property belonging to law
enforcement officers or the village. In addition, any and all costs and
expenses, including attorney fees, incurred by the village in enforcing this
obligation shall be paid to the village by such a person found to be violating
any provision of this code. (Ord. 2012-11, 4-10-2012)
In addition to any bail required in accordance with the laws of the state of
Illinois, or any other state, or the United States Of America, any person
arrested for violating a bailable municipal ordinance or state or federal law,
shall pay a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for bail processing. (Ord. 2014-06,
12-9-2014)
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
code or an ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of
the state, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a
period of incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not
to exceed six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of
criminal procedure of the state, and the village shall be required to establish
guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense.
   D.   Aiding In An Offense: Every person concerned in the commission of an
act prohibited by this code, whether he directly commits the act or prosecutes,
counsels, aids or abets in its commission, may be prosecuted and, upon
conviction, is punishable as if he had directly committed such act.
   E.    Failure To Pay Fines: Any person who fails to pay the requisite
penalty within fourteen (14) calendar days shall be assessed a double penalty
thereafter with the violator to be prosecuted within forty-five (45) calendar
days after the original violation if the penalty remains unpaid. A default in
the payment of a fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty may be
collected by any means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments. The
Village Attorney may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the
purpose of collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty or
installment of that fine or penalty. Any fees or costs incurred by the Village
with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the Village
Attorney under this section shall be charged to the offender. A double penalty
shall not be assessed if a timely appeal is filed. (1999 Code § 1.12; amd. 2005
Code; Ord. 2021-10, 9-14-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section. (2005 Code)
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
(1999 Code § 1.10; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (1999 Code § 1.10)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2005 Code)
1-4-4: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   All actions brought to enforce any fine, imprisonment, penalty or
forfeiture under this code or any ordinance of the village shall be brought in
the corporate name of the village, as plaintiff. No prosecution, recovery,
conviction or acquittal for the violation of this code or any ordinance shall
constitute a defense to any other prosecution of the same party for any other
violation of the same or any other ordinance, although the different causes of
action existed at the same time and, if united, would not have exceeded the
jurisdiction of the court.
   B.   The Village Attorney, or any attorney acting on behalf of or at the
direction of the Village, shall request and the court, in its discretion, shall
grant an award of attorney fees and costs in any action in which the Village is
a party and is authorized by Illinois law to request such an award of fees and
costs. At the direction of the Village, the Village Attorney or other attorney
representing the Village, may forego reimbursement of such fees when such
recovery is not cost efficient, where a request for fees and costs may
jeopardize the successful outcome of the litigation, or where such a waiver
will contribute to a desired outcome. (1999 Code § 1.13; amd. 2005 Code; Ord.
2021-10, 9-14-2021)
1-4-5: COLLECTED FINES TO CLERK:
All fines, forfeitures and penalties, when collected, shall be paid to the
village clerk within ten (10) days after the receipt thereof by the officer
collecting the same. (1999 Code § 1.14)
1-4-6: CIVIL LIABILITY:
The recovery and payment of any fine, penalty or forfeiture for the violation
of this code or any ordinance of this village, shall not discharge the person
who shall be guilty of such violation from liability to the village, or any
injured party in a private suit, for such damages as the village or injured
party may have sustained on account of such violation, and no such recovery or
payment shall be construed to be a bar to any suit for the recovery of such
damages, either by the village or by the person injured. (1999 Code § 1.19)
CHAPTER 5
MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Notices
1-5-2: Ordinances
1-5-3: Village Seal
1-5-4: Datum Plane
1-5-5: Travel Expenses
1-5-1: NOTICES:
Whenever in this Code a notice is required or authorized to be given by any
officer or official of the Village, such notice shall be construed to be a
personal notice and may be either verbal, written or printed, at the election
of the officer or official giving the same, unless otherwise provided. (1999
Code § 1.15)
1-5-2: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Recording Ordinances; Proof Of Publication: All ordinances passed by
the Village shall be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk, and due proof of
publication of any ordinance requiring publication shall be procured by the
Clerk and shall be attached to and filed with the ordinance. (1999 Code § 1.16)
   B.   Effective Date: Any ordinance required by law to be published shall
take effect ten (10) days after due publication thereof, as required by law,
and any ordinance not requiring publication shall take effect from and after
passage and approval unless otherwise provided therein. (1999 Code § 1.17)
   C.   Publication In Book Or Pamphlet Form: Whenever the Board of Trustees
shall cause to be printed in book or pamphlet form, any ordinances of the
Village purporting to have been published by authority of the Board of
Trustees, such book or pamphlet shall be the only publication necessary to be
made of such ordinance. Such pamphlet or book shall have attached thereto the
certificate of the Village Clerk, under the Corporate Seal, certifying the
pamphlet or book was published by authority of the Board of Trustees; that the
ordinances contained in such pamphlet or book are true and correct copies of
the original ordinances passed by the Board of Trustees; showing the dates of
the passage and approval of such ordinances and stating that the Village Clerk
is the keeper of the original ordinances and that the same are on file in his
office and recorded in the book of ordinances. Such pamphlet or book, when so
published and certified, shall be received as evidence of the passage and legal
publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet, in all courts and places without further proof. (1999 Code § 1.18;
amd. 2005 Code)
1-5-3: VILLAGE SEAL:
The seal of the Village is the seal heretofore provided and used by the Village
with the inscription "Village of Waterman" around the outer edge thereof, and
"Incorporated March 17, A.D. 1877", across the center thereof, and the
inscription "DeKalb County, Illinois" around the lower outer edge thereof.
(1999 Code § 2.01; amd. 2005 Code)
1-5-4: DATUM PLANE:
There is established and fixed a base or datum plane for determining, measuring
and describing elevations and grades in the Village. The base or datum plane is
an imaginary horizontal line. (1999 Code § 2.01)
1-5-5: TRAVEL EXPENSES:
   A.   Definitions:
   ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
   PUBLIC BUSINESS: Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out the
responsibilities of Village business.
   TRAVEL: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   B.   Maximum Allowable Rate: The Village may reimburse travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers. The maximum allowable
rate for reimbursement of travel expenses for employees shall be as prescribed
in the adapted General Services Administration (GSA) rates (www.gsa.gov) as
incorporated herein, as from time to time amended. The Village reserves the
unfettered right to approve, on a case-by-case basis, expenses that exceed the
maximum allowable travel, meal, or lodging expenses because of extraordinary
circumstances pursuant to 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 150/10 with said
approval recorded by roll call vote at an open meeting of the Village Board at
a duly convened public meeting in accordance with 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes
150/15.
   C.   Reimbursement Form Required: No reimbursement of travel, meal, or
lodging expenses incurred by a Village employee or officer shall be authorized
unless the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", on
file in the City, has been submitted and approved. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act 1 .
   D.   Expenses That Exceed Maximum: Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging
of: 1) any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed
under the regulations adopted under subsection B of this section, or 2) any
member of the Corporate Authorities of the Village may only be approved by roll
call vote at an open meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstances, the
Corporate Authorities may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set
forth above.
   E.   Entertainment: The Village shall not reimburse any elected official,
employee, or officer for any activities which would be considered
entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment,
but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2017-01, 1-10-2017, eff.
3-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT COMPENSATION
SECTION:
1-6-1: Chief Executive Officer; Qualifications; Term Of Office
1-6-2: Bond
1-6-3: Powers And Duties
1-6-4: Village President Pro Tem
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-1: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village President shall be the chief executive officer of the village. He
shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector and shall have
resided in the village at least one year next preceding the election. He shall
hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is elected and
qualified. (1999 Code § 2.04; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2023-02, 1-10-2023)
1-6-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of the office, the Village President shall
execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) with such sureties as the board of trustees shall approve,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his office. (1999
Code § 2.04; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 1-10-2023)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The Village President shall devote so much of his time to
the duties of his office as a faithful and efficient discharge thereof may
require. He shall take care that all ordinances of the village are duly
enforced, respected and observed. He shall preside at all meetings of the board
of trustees but shall not vote except in the case of a tie or for such other
purpose as may be properly prescribed by law. He shall preserve order and
decorum and generally do and perform all duties required by state law and the
ordinances of the village.
   B.   Signature Required; Assist In Prosecutions: The Village President shall
sign all commissions, licenses, permits and warrants granted, issued or drawn
by order of the board of trustees, or authorized by ordinance. He shall sign
all contracts to which the village is a party on behalf of the village. He
shall see that the other contracting parties faithfully comply with the
contract. In all suits where the village is a party, it shall be the duty of
the mayor to advise and assist the village attorney in prosecuting or defending
cases.
   C.   Appointment Of Officers: The Village President shall appoint, by and
with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, all officers of the
village whose appointment is not otherwise provided for by law. Whenever a
vacancy shall occur in any office which by law or ordinance he is required to
fill, he shall, at the earliest practicable time, communicate to the board of
trustees the name of his appointee to such office. Pending the concurrence of
the board of trustees in such appointment, he may designate some suitable
person to discharge the function of such office.
   D.   Supervision Of Officers: The Village President shall supervise the
conduct of all officers of the village and see that they faithfully and
efficiently discharge their duties of office. He shall inquire into all
complaints made against them and cause any neglect or violation of duty to be
promptly corrected. He shall, when satisfied that any officer has willfully
neglected or violated his duty, cause such officer to be prosecuted and
punished. He shall give the board of trustees such information concerning the
affairs of the village that he may deem proper. He shall recommend to the board
of trustees any measure that he considers necessary.
   E.   Removal Of Officers: The Village President shall have the power to
remove any officer appointed by him whenever he shall be of the opinion that
the interests of the village demand such removal. He shall report the reasons
for such removal to the board of trustees at a meeting to be held not less than
five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal. If he shall fail or
refuse to report to the village board a statement of the reasons for such
removal, or if the board of trustees by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its
members, by yeas and nays entered upon the records, disapproves of such
removal, such officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which
he was removed. Such officer shall then give a new bond and take a new oath of
office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense. (1999
Code § 2.04; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2023-02, 1-10-2023)
1-6-4: VILLAGE PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the board of
trustees shall elect one of its members to act as mayor pro tem, who, during
such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the mayor but shall not
be entitled to vote both as mayor and as trustee. (1999 Code § 2.04; amd. 2005
Code; Ord. 2023-02, 1-10-2023)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
Beginning with the term of office which commences after the consolidated
election to be held in April 2013, the Village President shall be paid a salary
of two hundred thirty-five dollars ($235.00) per month. The Village President
shall be entitled to miss up to two (2) regular meetings of the board of
trustees per fiscal year; thereafter, the Village President shall not receive
compensation under this section in any month in which the Village President
misses a third or following regular meeting of the board of trustees for that
fiscal year. Additionally, the Village President shall receive reimbursement
for any expenses incurred by the Village President in the performance or
furtherance of the official duties of the office. (Ord. 2012-23, 10-9-2012;
amd. Ord. 2023-02, 1-10-2023)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES COMPENSATION
SECTION:
1-7-1: Composition; Vacancies
1-7-2: Meetings
1-7-3: Quorum
1-7-4: Order Of Business
1-7-5: Adoption Of Ordinances
1-7-6: Standing Committees
1-7-7: Compensation
1-7-1: COMPOSITION; VACANCIES:
The board of trustees shall consist of the Village President and six (6)
trustees elected from the village at large. The board of trustees shall be the
sole judge of election and qualifications of its own members. In case any
vacancy shall occur in the office of trustee by death, resignation, removal or
other cause, such vacancy shall be filled in accordance with the laws of the
state. (1999 Code § 2.02; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-10-2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-
2024)
1-7-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meeting of the board of trustees shall be
held on the second Tuesday of each and every month, at six thirty o'clock (6:
30) p.m. in the village hall. The village president, village trustees, village
staff and any other person(s) contributing to the agenda of the regular meeting
shall provide the village clerk with all regular reports and information by the
first Tuesday of each and every month, by the conclusion of the business day
for village hall. Agenda information, meeting packets, and other relevant
materials for the village president and village trustees will be made available
no later than the first Friday of each and every month, by the conclusion of
the business day for village hall.
      1.   Any agenda item that necessitates board approval of a contract, bid
or use of village funds may be submitted to the village clerk no later than the
first Friday of each and every month by ten o'clock (10:00) a.m.
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the board of trustees may be
called by the Village President or any three (3) trustees, whenever deemed
necessary. To call such a meeting, the mayor, or three (3) trustees, as the
case may be, shall file in the village clerk's office a statement in writing
setting forth the object and purpose of such special meeting and directing the
village clerk to give notice of the same. Upon the filing of such statement,
the village clerk shall cause a notice of such meeting to be served personally
on each member of the board of trustees. In lieu of personal service, the
notice may be left at the member's usual place of business. The notice shall
set forth the object and purpose of the meeting and the time of holding the
same. No business other than that mentioned in the call shall be transacted at
a special meeting.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the village board of trustees shall be
open to the public unless otherwise excepted by law. (1999 Code § 2.02; amd.
2005 Code; Ord. 2019-11, 12-10-2019; Ord. 2021-12, 10-12-2021; Ord. 2023-01, 1-
20- 2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-2024)
1-7-3: QUORUM:
A majority of the trustees shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time. (1999 Code § 2.02; amd. Ord.
2023-01, 1-20-2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-2024)
1-7-4: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
At every meeting of the board of trustees, the order of business shall be as
follows:
   A.   Pledge of Allegiance.
   B.   Roll Call.
   C.   Approve Agenda.
   D.   Approve Minutes of previous regular meeting.
   E.   Accept Council Approval Reports.
   F.   Accept Petty Cash Report.
   G.   Accept Treasurer's Funds Report.
   H.   President's Report.
   I.   Request for Consideration.
   J.   Correspondence.
   K.   Staff Reports.
   L.   Public Comment.
   M.   Committee Reports.
      1.   Water and Sewer.
      2.   Streets and Alleys.
      3.   Public Safety.
      4.   Buildings, Grounds and Equipment.
      5.   Finance and Personnel.
      6.   Economic Development.
      7.   Zoning.
      8.   Planning Commission.
      9.   Regional Planning Commission.
   N.   Old Business.
   O.   New Business.
   P.   Closed Session.
   Q.   Adjournment. (1999 Code § 2.02; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 10-12-2021; Ord.
2023-01, 1-10-2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-2024)
1-7-5: ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES:
The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and on all
propositions to create any liability against the village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases, at the
request of any member, which shall be entered on the journal of the
proceedings. Unless otherwise provided by law, a concurrence of a majority of
all the members elected to the board of trustees, including the mayor, shall be
necessary for the passage of any such ordinance or proposition. (1999 Code §
2.02; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2023-01, 1-10-2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-2024)
1-7-6: STANDING COMMITTEES:
   A.   Designated: The village shall have, as standing committees, the
following committees:
      Buildings and grounds
      Economic development
      Finance and personnel
      Public safety
      Streets and alleys
      Water and sewer
      Zoning
   B.   Composition: Except as otherwise provided, each standing committee
shall consist of three (3) trustees.
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the standing committees of the board of
trustees to keep a close watch over the affairs of the departments of the
village over which they have jurisdiction. They shall have the general
management, control, and supervision over all works and things ordered to be
made or done by the board of trustees in their respective departments, and they
shall make reports to the board of trustees of facts deemed necessary. Each
committee shall promptly and thoroughly investigate and report in writing upon
all matters referred to it by the board of trustees and do and perform such
other and further duties as the board of trustees may require by ordinance,
resolution, or motion. No account or other demands against the village will be
allowed and directed paid unless the same has been examined and certified to be
correct by the proper committee.
   D.   Approval Required for Committee Action: No action of a standing
committee is official until approved by the board of trustees. (Ord. 2007-09,
9-11-2007; amd. Ord. 2012-19, 9-11-2012; Ord. 2023-01, 1-10-2023; Ord. 2024-
09, 12-10-2024)
1-7-7: COMPENSATION:
Beginning with those terms of office which commence as a result of the
consolidated election to be held in April 2011, and for all subsequent terms of
office, the village trustees so elected at such election shall be paid a salary
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per quarter (one hundred and sixty-six
dollars and sixty-six cents ($166.66) per month). Trustees shall be entitled to
miss up to two (2) regular meetings of the board of trustees within a fiscal
year; thereafter, no trustee shall receive compensation under this section in
any month in which the trustee misses a third or following regular meetings of
the board of trustees for that fiscal year. Additionally, such trustees shall
receive reimbursement for any expenses incurred by the trustees in the
performance or furtherance of the official duties of the office. For all terms
of office which commence at any point prior to April 2011, compensation shall
remain unchanged until the conclusion of the present term of office. (Ord.
2010-10, 10-28-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 1-10-2023; Ord. 2024-09, 12-10-2024)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Commencement Of Terms
1-8-2: Personnel Manual
1-8-3: Paid Leave Rights
1-8-1: COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS:
The terms of newly elected officers for the village shall commence on the first
regular or special meeting in the month of May following the proclamation of
results of the regular municipal election at which such officers were elected.
(1999 Code § 2.03)
1-8-2: PERSONNEL MANUAL:
Village employees shall be subject to the policies and procedures contained in
the village employee procedure manual, which may be revised from time to time
as necessary. Employee benefits shall be described and contained within this
manual. A copy of the manual shall be distributed to all employees, and a
permanent copy shall be on file with the village clerk. (Ord. 2003-01, 4-8-
2003)
1-8-3: PAID LEAVE RIGHTS:
   A.   All regular, full-time employees of the Village, will, at all times, be
provided no less than 40 hours of any form of paid leave for every consecutive
12-month period of their employment.
   B.   All part-time, temporary, and seasonal employees of the Village will,
at all times be provided no less than 1 hour of any form of paid leave for
every 40 hours worked, up to a minimum of 40 hours.
   C.   The Village through its Personnel Manual may make adjustments to
eligibility and accrual rates for various forms of paid leave, on an ongoing
basis without impacting, affecting or altering this ordinance, but in no event
shall the rights to paid leave provided to employees be less than what is
provided herein.
   D.   The rights of employees working for non-municipal employers within the
Village shall be as stated in the Paid Leave for All Workers Act, 820 ILCS 192/
1 et seq, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2023-11, 11-14-2023)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Bond
1-8A-2: Duties
1-8A-3: Damage To Village Records
1-8A-1: BOND:
The village clerk, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall execute
to the village a bond in the penal sum established by resolution, which sum
shall be at least one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with sureties to be
approved by the board of trustees as provided by law. (1999 Code § 2.05)
1-8A-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   The village clerk shall:
         a.   Attend every meeting of the board of trustees and shall keep a
correct record of all proceedings of the board of trustees;
         b.   Safely keep the corporate seal and use it when appropriate;
         c.   Notify all committees appointed by the board of trustees of their
appointment and of the business referred to them;
         d.   Prepare orders for special elections;
         e.   Notify all judges of election of their appointment;
         f.   Prepare bonds or scripts for loans; and
         g.   Perform all other duties which, by usage and custom, devolve upon
clerks and secretaries of incorporated bodies.
      2.   To facilitate the discharge of his duties, the village clerk may
procure for the village such blank forms as may be necessary.
   B.   Information To Mayor, Officers And Committees: The village clerk shall
promptly deliver to the officers of the village and to all committees of the
board of trustees, all papers, documents, communications and other matters
referred to them respectively, and shall promptly deliver to the mayor to be
returned in due course of business, all matters requiring approval or action of
the mayor.
   C.   Supervision Over Finances: The village clerk shall:
      1.   Exercise a general supervision over all officers of the village
responsible for the receipt, collection or disbursement of corporation
revenues, and the collection and return of such revenues into the village
treasury.
      2.   Have charge, custody and control of all deeds, leases, warrants,
vouchers, books and papers of any kind, the custody and control of which is not
herein given to any other officer. (1999 Code § 2.05)
      3.   On or before May 31 of each year and before the annual appropriation
is made by the board of trustees, submit to the board of trustees a report of
his estimate of monies necessary to defray the expenses of the village during
the current fiscal year. In the report, he shall class the different objects
and branches of expenditures, giving as nearly as possible the amount required
for each. For the purpose of making such report, he may require of all officers
a statement of the condition and expenses of their respective offices or
departments, with any proposed improvements and probable expense thereof, all
contracts made and unfinished, and the amount of any and all unexpended
appropriations of the preceding year. He shall, in such report, show the
aggregate income of the preceding fiscal year from all sources, the amount of
liabilities outstanding upon which interest is to be paid, the bonds and debts
payable during the year, and when due and payable. In such reports, he shall
give such other information to the board of trustees as he may deem necessary
in order that the board of trustees may fully understand the financial
exigencies and demands upon the village. (1999 Code § 2.05; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Accounts Of Village Treasurer: The village clerk shall keep a regular
account of debtor and creditor between the village and the village treasurer,
by charging the latter with sums received by him as exhibited in his duplicate
receipts, and credit him with the village orders paid and returned to him. He
shall keep a regular account of debtor and creditor when appropriations are
made and expenditures are ordered and shall state in all orders drawn on the
village treasurer for whom and when same is payable and also to what fund or
appropriation the same is chargeable.
   E.   Ordinances: The village clerk shall index all ordinances by their
number or title and shall attend to the proper and lawful publication of same.
   F.   Committees: The village clerk shall keep a list of all committees
appointed by the board of trustees and of the business referred to them. He
shall note when the committees report and the nature of their report.
   G.   Attest Documents; Signature And Seal Required; Additional Duties: The
village clerk shall attest all deeds, contracts and leases made by the board of
trustees and, in conjunction with the mayor, sign all ordinances, bonds,
licenses and orders on the village treasurer and affix the seal of the village
thereto, and perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board
of trustees. (1999 Code § 2.05)
1-8A-3: DAMAGE TO VILLAGE RECORDS:
Any person who loses or damages or obliterates any records of the village shall
be liable to the village for any damages suffered by the village on account of
the same. (1999 Code § 2.05; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Bond
1-8B-2: Duties
1-8B-3: Conduct And Management Of Office
1-8B-4: Inspection Of Books And Records
1-8B-5: Removal From Office For Violations
1-8B-1: BOND:
The treasurer's bond shall be an amount of money that is not less than three
(3) times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure
used for motor fuel tax purposes. The treasurer's bond shall be filed with the
village clerk. (2005 Code)
1-8B-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The village treasurer shall perform the duties required of
him by law and ordinance.
   B.   Books And Records:
      1.   The village treasurer shall keep books in which shall be recorded
and safely kept a record of all transactions of his office. In keeping books
and records, it shall be his duty to do the work in such a manner so that said
books and records will at all times contain and disclose in detail the
accounts, transactions, business and affairs of his office. He shall keep
separate the transactions and affairs relating to the various funds,
departments, offices or divisions of the village.
      2.   The village treasurer shall preserve and safely keep in his custody
the books, records and property under his control and shall not permit the same
to leave his custody and control except by court order or order of the board of
trustees. Upon the termination of his term of office, he shall promptly turn
over all village property under his control to this successor in office or to
such person as the board of trustees may direct.
   C.   Reports: The village treasurer shall make such reports as are now
required by law, and such other and further reports as may be required by the
board of trustees. (1999 Code § 2.06)
1-8B-3: CONDUCT AND MANAGEMENT OF OFFICE:
The village treasurer shall follow regulations prescribed by the board of
trustees or by law pertaining to his office or the conduct, management and
affairs thereof. He shall adhere to the system of bookkeeping adopted by the
village. (1999 Code § 2.06)
1-8B-4: INSPECTION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The books and records of the village treasurer's office shall be open to
inspection by the mayor or board of trustees. (1999 Code § 2.06)
1-8B-5: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE FOR VIOLATIONS:
For violations of the duties of his office, the village treasurer shall be
subject to removal from office by the mayor as provided by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.1-35-10. (1999 Code § 2.06; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Office Established; Appointment
1-8C-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT:
There is established the office of village attorney. The village attorney shall
be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. (1999 Code § 2.07)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Office Created
1-8D-2: Appointment
1-8D-3: Duties
1-8D-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of village engineer. (Ord. 2006-10, 9-20-
2006)
1-8D-2: APPOINTMENT:
The village mayor with the advice and consent of the board of trustees does
hereby reserve the right to appoint and terminate the village engineer for the
village who shall serve at the pleasure of the village board. Any village
engineer or village engineering consultant shall be selected in accordance with
the provisions governing the selection of such professionals under the
provisions of the Illinois municipal code and related statutes. (Ord. 2006-10,
9-20-2006)
1-8D-3: DUTIES:
The village engineer shall serve as general engineering consultant for the
village, as well as the design engineer and/or consultant on any project as the
village shall direct. The village engineer may also, if so directed by the
village, assist in the supervision of other engineers providing services in or
for the village, assist in the supervision of construction activities and
development within the village, provide engineering related services such as
public utility or land surveying, and shall provide such other services as the
village shall require. (Ord. 2006-10, 9-20-2006)
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE MANAGER
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Office Created
1-8E-2: Appointment
1-8E-3: Duties
1-8E-4: Bond
1-8E-5: Compensation
1-8E-6: Removal Of The Village Manager
1-8E-1: OFFICE CREATED:
The Office of the Village Manager is hereby created. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
1-8E-2: APPOINTMENT:
The Village Manager shall be appointed by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees
for an indefinite term. The Village Manager shall be appointed because of
executive and administrative qualifications and shall have actual experience
in, or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties of a village
manager and without regard to political beliefs. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
1-8E-3: DUTIES:
The Village Manager shall have the management and control of all Village
business placed in the Village Manager’s charge by or under this article, and
things pertaining to the operation and maintenance of the properties of the
Village and of all the departments of the Village, including the Public Works
Department, the Police Department, and all other Village Departments. The
Village Manager shall be responsible to the Board for the proper administration
of all the affairs of the Village. To that end, he or she shall have the power
and shall be required to:
   A.   Hire, appoint, suspend or remove any existing budgeted employee of the
Village, exclusive of employees and officers of the Police Department. Upon
discharging any employee, the Village Manager shall submit to the Board of
Trustees at the next meeting following such removal a statement concerning said
removal and the reason therefor.
   B.   The Village Manager shall appoint, suspend or remove any appointive
administrative officers, with the consent of the Board, except when the
appointment power is vested in the elected officials of the Village under this
Code or under the State of Illinois.
   C.   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, personnel,
offices, and agencies of the Village, except as otherwise provided by law.
   D.   Cause to be purchased all materials, supplies and equipment for which
funds have been provided in the budget.
   E.   Attend all Board meetings. The Village Manager shall have the right to
take part in discussion but shall not vote.
   F.   Investigate all complaints in regard to administration, operations and
activities.
   G.   Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program as needed to
the Board of Trustees, and implement the final budget approved by the Board of
Trustees to achieve the goals of the Village.
   H.   Submit to the Board of Trustees and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances an administrative activity of the Village as of
the end of each fiscal year.
   I.   The Village Manager shall sign on behalf of the village any contract
authorized by the Board of Trustees, except where the Board or statute directs
that some other officer shall do so. It shall be the duty of the Village
Manager to see that all terms of any contract to which the village is a party
are fully performed by all parties thereto.
   J.   Keep the Board of Trustees fully advised as to the financial condition
and future needs of the Village.
   K.   Make recommendations to the Board of Trustees concerning the affairs of
the village and facilitate the work of the Board of Trustees in developing
policy.
   L.    In case of accident, disaster, or other circumstance creating a public
emergency, the Village Manger may award contracts and make purchases for the
purpose of meeting said emergency in a manner consistent with the Village
Purchasing Policy; but the Village Manager shall file promptly with Board of
Trustees a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity for such
action, together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
   M.   Perform such other duties as are specified or may be required by the
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
1-8E-4: BOND:
Before taking office, the Village Clerk shall execute to the village a bond in
the penal sum established by resolution, which sum shall be at least one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the board of
trustees as provided by law. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
1-8E-5: COMPENSATION:
The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as the Board of Trustees
shall fix from time to by ordinance or resolution. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
1-8E-6: REMOVAL OF THE VILLAGE MANAGER:
The Board of Trustees may remove the Village Manager at any time by a majority
vote of its members. If requested, a public hearing shall be granted by the
Board of Trustees within 30 days following notice of removal. During the
interim, the Board of Trustees may suspend the Village Manager from duty, but
shall continue the Village Manager’s salary and, if the removal becomes final,
as provided by any contractual agreement that the Village Manager may have with
the Village. (Ord. 2021-04, 3-9-2021)
CHAPTER 9
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Ethics Advisor
1-9-3: Prohibited Political Activities
1-9-4: Gift Ban
1-9-5: Penalties
1-9-6: Sexual Harassment
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be given the following
definitions:
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action;
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining; or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code 1 .
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act 2 .
   COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the Election Code 3 .
   EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the Village of Waterman, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
   EMPLOYER: The Village of Waterman.
   GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive:
   A.   Compensation for employment;
   B.   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
   C.   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action;
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining; or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action:
      1.   By an officer; or
      2.   By an employee; or
      3.   By the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business:
      1.   With the officer; or
      2.   With an employee; or
      3.   With the officer or another employee directing that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated:
      1.   By the officer; or
      2.   By an employee; or
      3.   By the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee. (Ord. 2004-
06, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-9-2: ETHICS ADVISOR:
   A.   Advisor Designated: The village mayor, with the advice and consent of
the village board, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village. The
duties of the ethics advisor may be delegated to an officer or employee of the
village unless the position has been created as an office by the village.
   B.   Duties: The ethics advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The ethics advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 2004-06, 5-11-2004)
1-9-3: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
 1-9-1 of this chapter. No officer or employee shall intentionally use any
property or resources of the village in connection with any prohibited
political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      1.   As part of that officer's or employee's duties;
      2.   As a condition of employment; or
      3.   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   C.   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-06, 5-11-
2004)
1-9-4: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Except as permitted by this section, no officer or employee, and no
spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined in section
1-9-1 of this chapter, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance.
      2.   No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that
violates this subsection.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Subsection A of this section is not applicable to the following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
         c.   Any:
            (1)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the election code 1
; or
            (2)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of
a political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fianceé.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other officers or employees, or their spouses or immediate family
members.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection B1h, "catered"
means food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are
delivered by any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection B1j, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to an
officer or employee from another officer or employee, and "intergovernmental
gift" means any gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee
of another governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually
exclusive and independent of every other.
   C.   Disposition Of Gifts: An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee, does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-06, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
1-9-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
 1-9-3 of this chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal
institution other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three
hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   B.   A person who intentionally violates any provision of section
 1-9-4 of this chapter is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one
thousand one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
   C.   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation
of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement authorities, the
State's attorney or any other law enforcement official may be punished by a
term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary for a
period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days, and may be fined
in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
   D.   A violation of section
1-9-3 of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal offense by an attorney
for the Village by filing in the circuit court an information, or sworn
complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall be under and conform to
the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall require the establishment of
the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt.
   E.   A violation of section
1-9-4 of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-criminal offense by an
attorney for the Village.
   F.   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of section
1-9-3 or
1-9-4 of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge. (Ord. 2004-06, 5-
11-2004)
1-9-6: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the Village of Waterman to prohibit harassment of any person by any Municipal
official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency or office on
the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal officials, Municipal agents,
Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof.
   B.   Definition Of Sexual Harassment: This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person".
   C.   Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment: An employee
who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself to be the
object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly and
firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to the offending
employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary for sexual
harassment to be directed at the person making the report. Any employee may
report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment, including the
following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   D.   Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations:
No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency
or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal employee due
to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   E.   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: In
addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition On Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency.
   F.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable Municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-9-2018, eff.
1-9-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 1. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 3. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
CHAPTER 10
VILLAGE FINANCES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Local Improvements
1-10-2: Returned Checks; Fee And Procedure
1-10-3: Budget Process
1-10-1: LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS:
The provisions of article 9, division 2 of the Illinois municipal code are
adopted 1 . (1999 Code § 2.09)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-1 et seq.
1-10-2: RETURNED CHECKS; FEE AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   A twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) fee shall be assessed for any form of
payment that is returned to the Village for any reason. Upon receipt of the
returned payment, the Village shall notify the customer, and such customer
shall have seventy-two (72) hours after such notification to make the required
payment, including all penalties, fines, and returned payment fee, by certified
funds or cash. If the customer fails to make the payment as required, the bill
shall be considered late and delinquent as the case may be, and additional late
fees may be assessed.
   B.   If the Village receives two or more returned payments for water, sewer,
and/or trash services, you will no longer be eligible to submit check, debit or
credit card, or ACH electronic payments. Only payments in the form of cash,
money order, or certified check will be accepted. (Ord. 2006-09, 9-12-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-13, 10-10-2023)
1-10-3: BUDGET PROCESS:
   A.   Adoption Of Budget Process: The village of Waterman has adopted the
budget process contemplated by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through
5/8-2-9.10, by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the corporate authorities
then holding office. This section is adopted to codify the requirements of the
village's budget process, in compliance with the above referenced sections of
the Illinois municipal code. This section may only be repealed by a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the corporate authorities of the village holding office at the
time of vote.
   B.   Budget Officer: The village mayor shall appoint a budget officer,
subject to the approval of the corporate authorities of the village, and the
budget officer shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor. The budget officer may
hold another municipal office, either elected or appointed, and shall not
receive additional compensation for service as budget officer. The budget
officer shall take an oath and post a bond as required under the provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-25; in the event the budget officer
holds another municipal office, either elected or appointed, which requires a
similar bond, a single bond may satisfy the obligation relative to both
offices. The budget officer shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Encourage efficient use of planning, budgeting, auditing, reporting,
accounting and other fiscal management procedures in all village departments,
committees and boards;
      2.   Compile an annual budget in accordance with the provisions of
subsection C of this section;
      3.   Examine all books and records of the village which relate to monies
received or paid out by the village and its departments, officers, employees,
committees, boards and other similar groups, or which relate to accounts
receivable, accounts owed by or to the village, and debts of the village;
      4.   Obtain information from department heads, officers, committees,
boards and other similar groups of the village in accordance with subsection D
of this section. Any such entity which refuses to make information requested by
the budget officer available to the budget officer shall not be permitted to
make expenditures under any subsequent budget for the village until such
information is provided to the satisfaction of the budget officer; and
      5.   Establish and maintain policies and procedures, in cooperation with
the village president and village clerk, to ensure that no expenditures are
made by or on behalf of the village except as authorized by the budget, to
ensure proper record keeping as may be necessary to comply with the
requirements of the budget, and otherwise to ensure sound financial planning
for the village. Such policies and procedures shall be in writing, to the
extent practicable. Any such policy or procedure established by the budget
officer may be repealed by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of the corporate
authorities of the village then holding office.
   C.   Budget: The budget officer shall compile a budget containing estimates
of revenues and expenditures of the village available for the fiscal year for
which the budget is drafted.
      1.   Recommended Expenditures: The budget shall also contain recommended
expenditures for the village and all departments, committees and subsets
thereof.
      2.   Presentation Of Budget Information: All budget information shall be
presented in a manner in conformity with good fiscal management practices, and
in substantial conformity with the requirements of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-2-9.3.
      3.   Actual Or Estimated Revenues: The budget shall also contain actual
or estimated revenues for the two (2) years immediately preceding the fiscal
year for the budget, itemized in conformity with the proposed estimates for the
year of adoption of the budget.
      4.   Specific Funds: The budget shall show the specific fund from which
each anticipated expenditure is to be made.
      5.   Passage; Submittal: The budget shall be passed in lieu of an
appropriation ordinance for the village and shall in all events be adopted
prior to the start of the fiscal year to which it applies. A proposed budget
shall be submitted to the corporate authorities of the village not less than
three (3) months prior to the start of the fiscal year to which it applies.
      6.   Public Inspection; Public Hearing: Not less than ten (10) days prior
to passage, the budget shall be made conveniently available to the public for
inspection at the village hall, during normal business hours of the village
hall. A public hearing shall be held on the budget not less than one week after
being made available for public inspection, with notice of the hearing
published at least one week in advance of the hearing in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village. After the hearing, the budget may be revised and
passed without further hearing or inspection.
      7.   Budget Amendments: After passage, the budget may be amended at any
time by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the corporate authorities then holding
office. No such revision shall be made to increase the budget unless funds are
available to effect the revision.
      8.   Fund Specific Requirements:
         a.   The budget may contain an amount not to exceed three percent (3%)
of the equalized assessed value of the village subject to taxation in a
separate fund for the purpose of specific capital improvements, repairs or
replacements of specific types of municipal equipment or other tangible
property, real or personal, in a fund designated as the "capital improvement,
repair or replacement fund". Expenditures from this fund shall be budgeted in
the fiscal year in which the improvement, repair or replacement shall occur.
Should any surplus monies remain in such fund following the completion or
abandonment of any project contemplated to be funded from this fund, such
surplus monies shall, in the next budget following the completion or
abandonment, be transferred into the general corporate fund of the village.
         b.   The budget may contain an amount of funding set aside for
contingencies, to be expended upon a majority vote of the corporate authorities
then holding office in the event of a contingency. Such amount set aside for
contingencies shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the total budget, less the
amount set aside for contingencies.
   D.   Budget Submittals: Each department head, committee, board and
organization of the village, other than the board of trustees, shall submit to
the budget officer not less than six (6) months prior to the start of a new
fiscal year, a proposed budget for their respective department, committee or
board, listing those items as are necessary to be included in the budget of the
village (including proposed revenue and expenditures, revenue and expenditures
for the past 2 years, and such other information as may be requested by the
budget officer). Each entity so submitting information shall be responsible for
coordinating their proposed budget with the budget being prepared by the budget
officer, and each proposed budget shall be subject to revision by the budget
officer. At any point in time, should any such entity require a revision to the
budget, either before or after its adoption, such entity shall submit a written
explanation of the amendment to the budget officer. The budget officer shall
thereafter have forty five (45) days to present the request for amendment to
the corporate authorities of the village, along with a recommendation as to
whether such amendment should be adopted, and an analysis as to whether the
amendment may lawfully be adopted. Each such entity shall further be
responsible for documenting all revenue and expenditures undertaken by or on
behalf of the village in a fashion acceptable to the budget officer, and in
compliance with the requirements of the then current village budget.
   E.   Year Of Implementation: The procedures outlined in this section shall
be implemented for the fiscal year 2008-09, commencing in May of 2008. For the
year of implementation, the timelines described above shall be adjusted as
follows: Each department head/committee/board shall submit a proposed budget
(under subsection D of this section) to the budget officer not later than
January 1, 2008. The budget officer shall thereafter prepare a proposed budget
not later than February 15, 2008. The final budget for fiscal year 2008-09
shall be passed prior to the start of fiscal year 2008-09. (Ord. 2007-13, 11-
13-2007)
CHAPTER 11
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Title
1-11-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Notice Requirements
1-11-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
1-11-6: Disposition Of Revenues
1-11-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-11-8: Audit Procedure
1-11-9: Appeals
1-11-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
1-11-11: Installment Contracts
1-11-12: Statute Of Limitations
1-11-13: Voluntary Disclosure
1-11-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
1-11-15: Review Of Liens
1-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (2005 Code)
1-11-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to village procedures
in connection with all of the village locally imposed and administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (2005 Code)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
   ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 ".
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES: The village of Waterman president and board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village of Waterman is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents, to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
of Waterman that is collected or administered by the village of Waterman which
is not an agency or department of the state. It does not include a tax imposed
upon real property under the property tax code 2 , the state imposed sales tax
(retailers' occupation tax) or fees collected by the village of Waterman other
than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and, with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE: The village of Waterman, an Illinois municipal corporation. (2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
2 2. 35 ILCS 200/1-1 et seq.
1-11-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   A.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known addresses; or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (2005 Code)
1-11-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village with adequate
postage prepaid. (2005 Code)
1-11-6: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first to the tax due for the applicable period, second to the
interest due for the applicable period, and third to the penalty for the
applicable period. (2005 Code)
1-11-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in
which payment in error was made. The village shall not grant a village credit
or refund of locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to
a person who has not paid the amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (2005 Code)
1-11-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any
local administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
chapter. Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal
business hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
or tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (2005 Code)
1-11-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill due and owing
without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax
administrator may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and
petition for hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest
and petition for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days
after the expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal. No continuances
shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to
protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds
for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      2.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      3.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (2005 Code)
1-11-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed, and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (2005 Code)
1-11-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (2005 Code)
1-11-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than two (2)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   D.   The statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer. (2005 Code)
1-11-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (2005 Code)
1-11-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (2005 Code)
1-11-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (2005
Code)
CHAPTER 12
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS; TAX INCREMENT ALLOCATION
SECTION:
1-12-1: Registry Established
1-12-2: Policy And Procedures
1-12-1: REGISTRY ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The village clerk is hereby authorized and directed to create an
"interested parties" registry in accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-74.4-4.2 for the TIF district created under the provisions of the Illinois
tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
74.4-1 et seq. ("the TIF act").
   B.   The village board, in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the TIF
act, hereby adopts the rules described in exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein as the registration rules for the interested parties registry.
The board shall have the authority to amend the registration rules from time to
time as may be necessary or desirable to carry out all the purposes intended by
the TIF act.
   C.   The village clerk shall be hereby authorized and directed to publish a
notice in a newspaper of general circulation within the village indicating that
the registry authorized by this section has been established, and further
providing the information required by section 11-74.4-5 of the act. (Ord. 2006-
16, 11-14-2006)
1-12-2: POLICY AND PROCEDURES:
The village board hereby adopts the policy and procedures described in exhibit
A attached to the ordinance codified herein as the policy and procedures for
applications for TIF funding. The board shall have the authority to amend the
rules from time to time as may be necessary or desirable to carry out all the
purposes intended by the TIF act. (Ord. 2006-17, 1-9-2007)
CHAPTER 13
SATISFACTION OF MUNICIPAL DEBTS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Satisfaction Of Municipal Debts
1-13-4: Exempt Transfers
1-13-5: Application
1-13-6: Appeals
1-13-7: Fee
1-13-8: Penalty
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this division is to establish a system to provide for the
collection of unpaid water service charges and other delinquent fees and
charges owed to the village from persons upon the sale or other transfer of
real estate within the village. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-12-2022)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to the interpretation and enforcement of
this division:
 
                               The interest held by a beneficiary in a trust
BENEFICIAL INTEREST:           where the trustee of the trust holds legal title
                               to real estate for the benefit of the
                               beneficiaries of such trust.
                               The person or persons, entity or entities that
                               transfer the title to real estate or the
                               beneficial interest in a trust that holds title
                               to real estate to another person or persons,
TRANSFEROR OF THE REAL ESTATE: entity or entities. The definition shall also
                               include the transfer of control of a property
                               subjectto the Illinois Condominium Property Act
                               from the developer to the condominium
                               association board of managers.
VILLAGE:                       The Village of Waterman, Illinois. (Ord. 2022-
                               07, 7-12-2022)
 
1-13-3: SATISFACTION OF MUNICIPAL DEBTS:
   A.   Unless the transfer is exempt and only to the extent exempted, no real
estate located in the village and no beneficial interest of a trust holding
title to real estate located in the village shall be sold, quitclaimed,
assigned, exchanged or otherwise transferred unless it has been determined by
the Village Clerk that:
      1.   The village’s water, sewer and refuse collection charges related to
the real estate have been paid in full; and
      2.   The transferor of the real estate is not otherwise in debt to the
village.
   B.   Unless exempted, the requirement of obtaining a municipal debt
satisfaction certificate shall be mandatory on all transfers of ownership of or
beneficial interest in real estate located within the village. (Ord. 2022-07,
7-12-2022)
1-13-4: EXEMPT TRANSFERS:
The following transfers are exempt from compliance with the requirement that
the village’s water, sewer and refuse collection charges related to the real
estate have been paid in full:
   A.   The transfer of title or assignment of the beneficial interest of a
trust holding title to a condominium unit for which a condominium association
pays the water, sewer and/or refuse collection charges. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-12-
2022)
1-13-5: APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon entering into any agreement to transfer the title of real estate
located within the village or to assign the beneficial interest of a trust
holding title to real estate located within the village, the titleholder or the
beneficiary of the trust holding title shall immediately and before the
transfer make application to the Village Clerk for a final reading of the water
meter serving the real estate and for a municipal debt satisfaction
certificate. The application shall be accompanied by the original deed or other
document of transfer. Upon the final reading of the water meter’s being made
and the amount owed being determined, including, but not limited to, any
outstanding penalties for delinquent payments and for other monetary
obligations owed to the village, the applicant shall make full payment to the
village in the amounts then determined to be due. The application for a
municipal debt satisfaction certificate shall be submitted to the Village Clerk
during regular business hours not less than seven business days prior to any
proposed sale, assignment or other transfer of real estate or of the legal or
beneficial interest of a trust holding title to real estate located in the
village to allow sufficient time for the Village Clerk to determine if the
applicant has met the requirements for a municipal debt satisfaction
certificate.
   B.   If the Village Clerk determines that the transferor of the real estate
has paid in full all water, sewer and refuse collection charges as of the most
recent billing, and that the transferor of the real estate is not otherwise in
debt to the village, the Village Clerk shall issue a municipal debt
satisfaction certificate. The municipal debt satisfaction certificate shall
state that as of the date of the most recent billing, all water, sewer and
refuse collection charges have been paid in full and that the transferor of the
real estate is not otherwise in debt to the village. Any unbilled charges
incurred after the issuance of the municipal debt satisfaction certificate to,
and including, the date of the closing of the sale or transfer of the real
estate shall remain the responsibility of the transferor of the real estate.
   C.   The municipal debt satisfaction certificate shall be valid for a period
of 30 days from the date of issuance.
   D.   The Village Clerk shall keep a record of all municipal debt
satisfaction certificates on file in the Village Hall. Copies of any municipal
debt satisfaction certificate related to the property shall be furnished, upon
request, to any person having a tenancy interest in the property for which the
certificate is requested.
   E.   If the Village Clerk determines that the transferor of the real estate
has not paid in full all water, sewer and/or refuse collection charges, or that
the transferor of the real estate is otherwise in debt to the village, no
municipal debt satisfaction certificate shall be issued. Instead, the applicant
will be issued a report in a form adopted by the Village which details any
water, sewer, refuse collection charges, and/or debts owed by the transferor of
the real estate to the village. When, and if, the transferor of the real estate
has paid the all of the debts noted on the report, the applicant may reapply
for a municipal debt satisfaction certificate. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-12-2022)
1-13-6: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person whose application for a municipal debt satisfaction
certificate has been denied may file an appeal with the Village Manager to
contest the findings contained on the report or request that the requirements
of this division be waived in his or her particular circumstances.
   B.   An appeal to the Village Manager must be made by filing a notice of
appeal with the Village Manager. The notice of appeal must be filed within ten
days from the date of issuance of the report denying the issuance of the
municipal debt satisfaction certificate. The Village Manager may grant a
variance from the requirements of the division only when the applicant can
prove by a preponderance of the evidence that:
      1.   Compliance with the requirements of the division will place an
extreme hardship on the applicant; or
      2.   Physical conditions of the real estate make compliance with the
requirements of the division impossible.
   C.   The Village Manager shall hold a hearing on the appeal within seven
days of the filing of the notice of appeal. The Village Manager shall render a
written decision within seven days of the close of the hearing. (Ord. 2022-07,
7-12-2022)
1-13-7: FEE:
The village shall charge a fee of $10.00 for the preparation of a municipal
debt satisfaction certificate payable upon application for the municipal debt
satisfaction certificate. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-12-2022)
1-13-8: PENALTY:
Any person who participates in a sale or transfer of any structure, building or
dwelling unit in the village in violation of this division as seller, buyer,
broker or agent, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more
than $750.00 for such violation. (Ord. 2022-07, 7-12-2022)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Planning Commission   1
Boards Of Appeals   2
Committees   3
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Composition; Appointment
2-1-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-1-3: Compensation; Expenses
2-1-4: Organization And Rules
2-1-5: Meetings And Hearings
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7: Recommendations To Board Of Trustees
2-1-8: Joint Meetings
2-1-1: CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a planning commission for the village which shall
consist of a chairman and six (6) other members. The village president shall be
an ex officio member of the planning commission. The seven (7) members shall be
appointed by the village president with the consent of the majority of the
elected members of the village board of trustees. Members of the planning
commission shall reside within the corporate limits of the village of Waterman
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
within any other municipality. Membership on the planning commission, zoning
board of appeals or building board of appeals shall not preclude membership on
any of the other above referenced commissions or boards. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-
2006)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   The village president's term as ex officio member of the planning
commission shall be concurrent with his term of office as village president.
The members of the planning commission shall serve as follows: for the initial
appointments, one for one year; one for two (2) years; one for three (3) years;
one for four (4) years; one for five (5) years; one for six (6) years; and one
for seven (7) years. Successors to each member so appointed shall serve for a
term of five (5) years.
   B.   The original appointment shall designate the term of office of each
person so appointed. The terms of all officers expire on the first Monday in
May in the last year of their respective terms, regardless of the actual date
of appointment, but the member whose term is expiring shall continue to hold
his office until his successor is appointed as provided for herein. Vacancies
shall only be filled by appointments for unexpired terms only. (Ord. 2006-15,
11-14-2006)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
   A.   Compensation: All members of the planning commission shall serve
without compensation; except, that if the board of trustees deems it advisable,
the members of the planning commission may receive such compensation as may be
fixed from time to time by said board and provided for in the appropriation
ordinance.
   B.   Expenses: All expenses incurred by the planning commission shall be
provided for by annual appropriation from the village funds at the discretion
of the village board of trustees. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-4: ORGANIZATION AND RULES:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning commission
shall meet, organize, elect a chairman, vice chairman and a secretary and such
other officers as they may deem necessary and adopt and later change or alter
rules and regulations, organization and procedures consistent with the
provisions of this chapter and state laws. The commission shall keep written
records of its proceedings, which shall be open at all times to public
inspection, and shall also file an annual report with the village president and
board of trustees, setting forth its transactions and recommendations. The
rules and regulations of the planning commission shall be filed in the office
of the village clerk and may be amended at any meeting. The rules are effective
upon filing in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-5: MEETINGS AND HEARINGS:
The planning commission may provide for regular or special meetings as it shall
deem necessary. Special meetings may be held on call of the chairman or some
member of the planning commission acting in his stead. The chairman or some
member of the planning commission acting in his stead shall also be responsible
for calling any public hearings required to be held before the planning
commission, and shall call any such public hearing within the time frames
required by applicable law. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future improvements of the
village. Such plan, after adoption by the board of trustees, will be known as
the "comprehensive plan for the village of Waterman". Such plan shall include
reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys and public grounds
within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits and not included
in any municipality. Such requirements shall be effective whenever such lands
shall be subdivided after adoption of such plan.
   B.   To recommend from time to time changes in any comprehensive plan
adopted by the board of trustees.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees from time to time
plans and specific improvements in pursuance of such comprehensive plan.
   D.   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of improvements embraced within the comprehensive plan and to further the
making of such comprehensive plan.
   E.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for general purposes of public understanding.
   F.   To hold public hearings on applications for amendments to the zoning
regulations. The commission shall not have the authority to make changes or
amendments to the zoning regulations; it shall act in a purely advisory manner
to the village board, making its recommendations in all cases referred to it
and transmitting them to the board for final action.
   G.   To hold public hearings on applications for special use permits
provided for within the zoning regulations and to transmit its recommended
action to the village board for final action.
   H.   To exercise such other powers as may be provided by statute or
ordinance. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-7: RECOMMENDATIONS TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
The village board of trustees shall take no action authorizing or approving the
acquisition, construction or alteration of any street, park, public way,
ground, space of public building or structure, map, plat or replat of land
lying within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous territory
one and one-half (11/2) miles from the corporate limits or changing any fire,
building or use zones or accepting the dedication of any public streets or
grounds until such contemplated action shall have first been submitted to the
planning commission for its recommendation. If the planning commission shall
fail to submit its recommendation to the village board of trustees within
twenty one (21) days of the last planning commission meeting at which the
matter in question was considered, the village board of trustees may proceed
without the same. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
2-1-8: JOINT MEETINGS:
In addition to those powers previously granted, the building board of appeals,
zoning board of appeals and the planning commission are empowered to hold joint
meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by the chairs of said boards
and commissions. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
CHAPTER 2
BOARDS OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Clarification Of Jurisdiction
2-2-2: Zoning Board Of Appeals
2-2-3: Building Board Of Appeals
2-2-1: CLARIFICATION OF JURISDICTION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the location and height of a garage is
considered a zoning issue, whereas the construction requirements are considered
a building code issue. The appeals process for each may differ. Zoning issues
are handled as variances to the zoning code, title 9 of this code, and heard by
the zoning board of appeals. Building code issues are generally appeals related
to decisions or rulings by the code official, title 8, "Building Regulations",
of this code and are heard by the building board of appeals. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-
14-2006)
2-2-2: ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1 :
   A.   Board Established: A zoning board of appeals is hereby authorized in
accordance with division 13 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Composition; Appointment; Terms; Removals; Vacancies: The board of
appeals shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by the mayor and
with the consent of the board of trustees. The members of the board of appeals
shall serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one for one year; one for
two (2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for five
(5) years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. Successors to
each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. One of the
members so appointed shall be named chairman at the time of his appointment.
The appointing authority has the power to remove any member of the board for
cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the member whose place has become vacant. Members of the zoning board
of appeals shall reside within the corporate limits of the village of Waterman
or within territory contiguous to the village and not more than one and one-
half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village and not included
within any other municipality. Membership on the plan commission, zoning board
of appeals or building board of appeals shall not preclude membership on any of
the other above referenced commissions or boards.
   C.   Jurisdiction And Authority: The board of appeals is hereby vested with
the following jurisdiction and authority:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning official under title 9 of this code.
      2.   To hear and pass upon applications for variances from the terms
provided in title 9 of this code in the manner prescribed by, and subject to,
the standards established therein.
   D.   Meetings And Rules:
      1.   Meetings; Hearing: Public hearings shall be conducted by the board
or a majority of its members thereof and shall be open to the public. Any
person may appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by a duly
authorized agent or attorney.
      2.   Records: A copy of every rule or regulation, every amendment and
every order, requirement, decision or determination of the board shall be filed
immediately in the office of the zoning official and shall be a public record.
      3.   Rules And Procedures: The board shall adopt its own rules and
procedures, not in conflict with title 9 of this code or with the applicable
Illinois statutes, and may select or appoint such officers as it deems
necessary.
      4.   Joint Meetings: In addition to those powers previously granted, the
building board of appeals, zoning board of appeals and the planning commission
are empowered to hold joint meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by
the chairs of said boards and commissions. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 3, article A of this code.
2-2-3: BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Board Established; Qualifications: A building board of appeals is
hereby authorized in accordance with the building code, title 8 of this code.
   B.   Composition; Appointment; Terms; Removals; Vacancies: The building
board of appeals shall consist of seven (7) members to be appointed by the
mayor and with the consent of the board of trustees. The members of the board
of appeals shall serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one for one
year; one for two (2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years;
one for five (5) years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years.
Successors to each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5)
years. One of the members so appointed shall be named chairman at the time of
his appointment. The appointing authority has the power to remove any member of
the board for cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant. Members of the
building board of appeals shall reside within the corporate limits of the
village of Waterman or within territory contiguous to the village and not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village
and not included within any other municipality. Membership on the plan
commission, zoning board of appeals or building board of appeals shall not
preclude membership on any of the other above referenced commissions or boards.
   C.   Jurisdiction: To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning official and/or code official
under title 8 of this code.
   D.   Meetings And Procedures: Meetings of the building board of appeals
shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board
may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the
board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote, or failure to vote, of each member upon every
question, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions. All board of appeals action shall be a matter of public record. In
addition to those powers previously granted, the building board of appeals,
zoning board of appeals and the planning commission are empowered to hold joint
meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by the chairs of said boards
and commissions.
   E.   Fee: In order to partially defray the expense of the building board of
appeals hearings, the applicant shall pay the sum of one hundred dollars
($100.00) to the village treasurer at the time of filing the appeal.
   F.   Appeal And Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Right To Appeal; Application: A person shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the building code official to the building board of
appeals. The application shall be filed on a form obtained from the code
official within thirty (30) days after the notice was served.
      2.   Meeting For Appeal: The board shall meet upon notice from the
chairman, within fourteen (14) days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated
periodic meetings.
      3.   Open Hearing: All hearings before the building board shall be open
to the public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code
official, and any person whose interests are affected shall be given an
opportunity to be heard.
      4.   Procedure: The board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
      5.   Postponed Hearing: When a quorum is not present to hear an appeal,
the matter shall be continued to another date convenient to all parties.
      6.   Board Decisions: The building board of appeals shall uphold, modify,
or reverse the decision of the code official by a concurring vote of the
majority of members present at the meeting. The decision of the board shall be
by resolution. Certified copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the
building code official.
      7.   Administration: The building code official shall take immediate
action in accordance with the decision of the board.
      8.   Court Review: Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer. For any court review to which the
administrative review law, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
applies, the provisions of that law shall govern to the extent that they may be
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-15, 11-14-2006)
CHAPTER 3
COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Park Committee
2-3-1: PARK COMMITTEE:
   A.   Membership: The village mayor, with the advice and consent of the board
of trustees, may appoint up to seven (7) persons to serve on the village of
Waterman park committee. The park committee may be comprised of elected or
unelected representatives of the village, as recommended by the mayor with the
consent of the board of trustees. Members of the committee shall live within
the corporate limits of the village. The village mayor shall be an ex officio
member of the park committee, with the right to attend any portion of the park
committee meeting.
   B.   Authority: The park committee shall be an advisory body serving under
the direction and supervision of the village mayor and the buildings and
grounds standing committee. The park committee shall have the ability to make
recommendations to the buildings and grounds committee, and to the village
board of trustees, regarding the village's park facilities and their use,
maintenance, repair or upgrading. The park committee may designate one or more
representatives who shall report to the village board of trustees at each
regular meeting thereof.
The mayor shall, in cooperation with the village clerk, have oversight over the
park on a daily basis. Provided that the park is operated pursuant to
established policies of the village and not contrary to any lease or agreement
pertaining to the park in effect at the time, the mayor and clerk may license
the use of portions of the park to persons for periods of time not in excess of
two (2) days at a time. Any other form of license, including for a longer
duration, shall require review and approval by the corporate authorities of the
village. The mayor may, at his or her discretion, designate one or more persons
responsible for inspecting the park facilities both before and after the time a
licensee uses the park to verify the condition of the facilities before and
after such use and to identify any damage caused by any licensee. Any such
damage shall be reported to the mayor and the clerk immediately upon such
discovery.
   C.   Financial Authority: Expenses of the park committee, and expenses
pertaining to the village's parks, shall be budgeted and appropriated through
the buildings and grounds committee. For any expense under two hundred dollars
($200.00) which has been budgeted and appropriated by the village, the
chairperson of the park committee may apply directly to the village clerk for
payment of such expense. For any expense which has not been budgeted and
appropriated, or for any expense in excess of two hundred dollars ($200.00),
the park committee chairperson shall apply to the buildings and grounds
committee for approval of the expense, and the buildings and grounds committee
shall determine whether such expense requires the approval of the corporate
authorities of the village. The park committee shall have no authority to incur
any debt or obligation on behalf of the village, except with the preapproval of
such debt or obligation, in compliance with this subsection.
   D.   Limitation Of Authority: The park committee shall not, without further
ordinance or resolution, have the authority to bind the village or the
corporate authorities of the village. Any action which requires approval by the
board of trustees or corporate authorities of the village may only be approved
by such board or authority at a meeting thereof, unless the village shall adopt
such further ordinance or resolution which delegates to any committee any
discrete power.
   E.   Laws And Regulations Applicable: The park committee shall be treated as
a committee of the village and shall be subject to all applicable laws and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the open meetings act.
   F.   Committee Chair And Secretary: The village mayor shall designate, from
the ranks of the park committee, a person to serve as committee chair; said
committee chair shall designate a person to serve as secretary. The committee
chair shall be responsible for the orderly and professional conduct of
committee meetings and for ensuring that all notices pertaining to such
meetings are properly served and/or posted, and the secretary shall be
responsible for keeping such minutes of such meetings as shall be required
under applicable law.
   G.   No Compensation Due: There shall be no compensation due to any person
for serving on the village park committee. (Ord. 2013-01, 3-12-2013)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Liquor Control   1
Peddlers, Solicitors And Itinerant Merchants   2
Pool And Billiard Halls   3
Food Truck Vendor Regulations   4
Charitable Raffles   5
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: State Regulations Incorporated
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Liquor Commissioner
3-1-4: License And Compliance Required
3-1-5: Application For License; Fee For Application; Renewals
3-1-6: Denial Of License To Certain Persons Authorized
3-1-7: Investigation Of Applicant
3-1-8: Termination Of License; Proration And Refund Of Fees; Payment Of Renewal
Fees
3-1-9: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
3-1-10: Payment And Disposition Of Fees
3-1-11: Number Of Licenses
3-1-12: Nontransferability, Renewal Of License
3-1-13: Restrictions On Certain Licenses
3-1-14: Location, Premises And Occupancy Requirements
3-1-15: Days And Hours Of Operation
3-1-16: Underage Persons
3-1-17: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
3-1-18: Containers
3-1-19: Obscene Conduct
3-1-20: Temporary Liquor License
3-1-21: Record Of Licenses
3-1-22: Liability Of Licensee
3-1-23: Hearings
3-1-24: Fine, Suspension Or Revocation
3-1-25: Penalty
3-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS INCORPORATED:
All of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act 1  and of the rules
and regulations issued by the Illinois liquor control commission which are or
may hereafter be in force, which are applicable to the village, are hereby
incorporated into and declared to be a part of this chapter the same as if they
were expressly set forth herein, except where otherwise specifically changed or
amended in this chapter. (1999 Code § 3.35)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, as used in this
chapter, shall be construed according to the definitions given in this section:
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid
or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and
capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   APPLICANT: A person/persons applying for a retail liquor dealer license.
   BAR AREA: That area specified by the liquor commissioner where alcoholic
liquor is predominately served at a bar with or without stools or at nearby
tables and segregated in some manner from the remaining portions of an
establishment license C, E or F.
   BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   BEER AND WINE ESTABLISHMENT: Any public place kept, used maintained and
advertised and where meals are actually and regularly served in accordance with
either a general or specialized menu, without sleeping accommodations, such
places being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its patrons. Seating capacity
required hereunder shall not include patron seating in basement or subgrade
space. The area of the main dining room or dining rooms shall provide a minimum
of ten (10) square feet per customer. Without exception, the gross receipts for
the beer and wine establishment must reflect, based on the books and records
for each preceding federal tax year, at least seventy five percent (75%) from
the sale of food and beverage, excluding beer and wine, and no more than twenty
five percent (25%) of said gross receipts shall be from the sale of beer and
wine. A "beer and wine establishment" shall have no bar for the seating or
direct use of patrons. All serving of food and beverage shall be at tables with
adequate seating as provided in this definition, and beer and wine shall be
served only in conjunction with the purchase (at normal, nonreduced prices) and
consumption of food; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply
to carryout or delivery of food only and nonalcoholic beverages.
   CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of the state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object, other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and providing dining room space and equipment and
maintaining a sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking,
preparing and serving food and meals for its members and their guests;
provided, that such club files with the president at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of names
and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten (10) days of the
election of any additional member his name and residence; and, provided
further, that its affairs and managements are conducted by a board of
directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their
annual meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the
club is paid or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of a salary or
other compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by
members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club.
   HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised
and held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and
consumed and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers
and guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five
(25) or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
   ILLEGAL DRUG: Any amount of drug or substance in a person's breath, blood,
or urine resulting from the unlawful use or consumption of cannabis listed in
the cannabis control act 1 , or a controlled substance listed in the Illinois
controlled substances act 2  or any combination of the above.
   INFLUENCE: The effect of something on a person, thing or event.
   LIQUOR COMMISSIONER: Mayor of the village of Waterman.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and where
meals are actually and regularly served in accordance with a general menu,
without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided with adequate and
sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and seating capacity for forty (40)
patrons and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its patrons. Seating capacity
required hereunder shall not include patron seating in a basement or subgrade
space. The area of the main dining room or dining rooms shall provide a minimum
of ten (10) square feet per customer. Parking area shall be provided in
conformance with the zoning ordinance of the village 3 .
   RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER LICENSE HOLDER: Any applicant who has been granted a
retail liquor dealer license.
   RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   UNDER THE INFLUENCE: Influenced by the use of a chemical substance,
especially alcohol.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol. (1999 Code § 3.01; amd. Ord. 2002-
04, 4-9-2002; 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
2 2. 720 ILCS 570/1 et seq.
3 3. See title 9, chapter 12 of this code.
3-1-3: LIQUOR COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The liquor commissioner shall have the following
powers, functions and duties:
      1.   To receive applications, investigate applicants and grant, renew or
deny liquor licenses.
      2.   To receive complaints from any citizen of the village that any of
the provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated and to act upon
such complaints in a manner hereinafter provided.
      3.   To enter or authorize any law enforcement officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter have been or are being violated and, at such time,
to examine such premises of said licensee. (1999 Code § 3.32)
      4.   In response to complaints or upon reports from an investigating
agent of the liquor commissioner, to conduct hearings on alleged violations of
this chapter and to examine or cause to be examined under oath complaints from
license holders and other interested parties. Furthermore, the liquor
commissioner may examine or cause to be examined the books and records of any
licensee under this chapter and may hear testimony and take proof as to the
performance of the licensee's duties and for such purposes may issue subpoenas.
For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the liquor
commissioner under this chapter, he may authorize a designee to act on his
behalf. For the purpose of administering or enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the commissioner may, at his discretion, hold public hearings at any
time within the village concerning any matter embraced by this chapter. (1999
Code § 3.32; amd. 2005 Code)
      5.   To fine license holders and/or to suspend or revoke any liquor
license in the manner provided herein for any of the following reasons:
         a.   That the licensee has violated any of the laws of the United
States relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of
the Illinois liquor control act, or of this chapter, or of any applicable rules
and regulations adopted by the liquor commissioner or by the state liquor
control commission.
         b.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for such license or in any change of ownership application or
request or affidavit for the renewal of any license. Making a false statement
shall include not making a complete statement of all relevant facts which
relate to the situation.
         c.   The permitting of any violation of state law or this code by any
person upon the licensed premises.
         d.   Failure to use and maintain the licensed premises in compliance
with all codes and regulations pertaining to health and safety applicable
within the village including, but not limited to, building, plumbing,
electrical, property maintenance and fire codes 1 , zoning ordinances 2 ,
DeKalb County health ordinances and all regulations of the DeKalb County health
department.
         e.   The refusal of any licensee to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to him at any hearing conducted by the liquor
commissioner.
         f.   Suspension or revocation of the license of the licensee by the
state liquor control commission.
      6.   To cause the initiation of legal proceedings under the penalty
provisions hereof.
      7.   To notify the Illinois secretary of state where a club incorporated
under the general not for profit corporation act 3  or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in Illinois under a certificate of authority issued under
that act has violated the Illinois liquor control act or this chapter by
selling or offering for sale at retail alcohol liquors without a retailer's
license.
      8.   Following submission and review, the liquor commissioner may adopt
such rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this chapter which
shall be necessary to carry on his functions and duties to the end that the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the village shall be protected and
temperance in the consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and
promoted and to distribute copies of such rules and regulations to all
licensees affected thereby.
      9.   To take any and all action necessary and incidental to the
furtherance of his duties and functions as set forth in this chapter. (1999
Code § 3.32)
      10.   To notify the secretary of state of any convictions for a violation
of subsection
3-1-16D or F of this chapter. (2005 Code)
   B.   Salary: The salary of the liquor commissioner shall be one hundred
eighty seven dollars fifty cents ($187.50) per month. (Ord. 2006-13, 10-25-
2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1 of this code.
2 2. See title 9 of this code.
3 3. 805 ILCS 105/101.01 et seq.
3-1-4: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any alcoholic
liquor without a retail liquor dealer's license or in violation of the terms of
such license. (1999 Code § 3.02)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE FOR APPLICATION; RENEWALS:
   A.   1. Applications for a retail liquor dealer's license shall be made to
the liquor commissioner in writing, signed by the applicant if an individual,
or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by
oath or affidavit. Said application shall be accompanied with a nonrefundable
application fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) and shall contain the
following information and statements:
         a.   The applicant's name and mailing address;
         b.   The name and address of the applicant's business;
         c.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of
the business with the county clerk;
         d.   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the business
corporation act 1  to transact business in the state of Illinois;
         e.   The number, the date of issuance and the date of expiration of
the applicant's current local retail liquor license;
         f.   The name of the city, village, or county that issued the local
retail liquor license;
         g.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises are leased;
         h.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state liquor
license and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn;
         i.   The address of the applicant when the first application for a
state liquor license was made;
         j.   The applicant's current state liquor license number;
         k.   The date the applicant began liquor sales at his place of
business;
         l.   The address of the applicant's warehouse if he warehouses liquor;
         m.   The applicant's retailer's occupation tax (ROT) registration
number;
         n.   The applicant's document locater number on his federal special
tax stamp;
         o.   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailer's occupation tax (sales tax), and if so, the reasons therefor;
         p.   Whether the applicant is delinquent under the cash beer law, and
if so, the reasons therefor;
         q.   In the case of a retailer, whether he is delinquent under the
thirty (30) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor;
         r.   In the case of distributor, whether he is delinquent under the
fifteen (15) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor;
         s.   Whether the applicant has made an application for a liquor
license which has been denied, and if so, the reasons therefor;
         t.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the reasons therefor;
         u.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling
offense or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof;
         v.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp,
and if so, the reasons therefor;
         w.   Whether the applicant, or any other person, directly in his place
of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars thereof;
         x.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager and
any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant
business entity or parent corporation of the applicant business entity; and
         y.   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of
value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value
(other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business for a
period not to exceed ninety (90) days as herein expressly permitted under 235
ILCS 5/6-5), directly or indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing
distributor or distributor or from any representative of any such manufacturer,
importing distributor or distributor, nor be a party in any way, directly or
indirectly, to any violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing
distributor of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-6.
      2.   In addition to any other requirement of this subsection, an
applicant for a special use permit license and a special event retailer's
license shall also submit: a) proof satisfactory to the liquor commissioner
that the applicant has a resale number issued under section 2c of the
retailer's occupation tax act 2  or that the applicant is registered under
section 2a of the retailer's occupation tax act 3 ; b) proof satisfactory to
the liquor commissioner that the applicant has a current, valid exemption
identification number issued under section 1g of the retailer's occupation tax
act 4  and a certification to the liquor commissioner that the purchase of
alcoholic liquors will be a tax-exempt purchase; or c) a statement that the
applicant is not registered under section 2a of the retailer's occupation tax
act, does not hold a resale number under section 2c of the retailer's
occupation tax act, and does not hold an exemption number under section 1g of
the retailer's occupation tax act. The applicant shall also submit proof of
adequate dram shop insurance for the special event prior to being issued a
license.
      3.   In addition to the foregoing information, such application shall
contain such other and further information as the village may, by rule or
regulation not inconsistent with law, prescribe.
      4.   If the applicant reports a felony conviction as required under
subsection A1u of this section, such conviction may be considered by the
village in determining qualifications for licensing, but shall not operate as a
bar to licensing.
      5.   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed by one member
of such partnership or the president or secretary of such corporation or an
authorized agent of said partnership or corporation. (1999 Code § 3.03; amd.
2005 Code)
   B.   Any retailer liquor dealer license that is granted to an applicant must
be renewed annually prior to May 1. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-9-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. 35 ILCS 120/2c.
3 2. 35 ILCS 120/2a.
4 3. 35 ILCS 120/1g.
3-1-6: DENIAL OF LICENSE TO CERTAIN PERSONS AUTHORIZED:
No retail alcoholic liquor dealer's license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   B.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, if the local liquor control commissioner determines, after investigation,
that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public
trust.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   E.   A person whose license issued under this chapter or the Illinois liquor
control act of 1934 1  has been revoked for cause.
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   G.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residency within the village.
   H.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of
the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence with the village.
   I.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act of
1983 2  to transact business in Illinois.
   J.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   K.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to January 31, 1934, or has forfeited his bond to appear in court to
answer charges for any such violation.
   L.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   M.   Any law enforcing public officials, including members of local liquor
control commissions, any president of the village board of trustees, any member
of the village board of trustees, and no such official shall be interested
directly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor; except,
that license may be granted to such official in relation to premises which are
not located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official
if the issuance of such license is approved by the local liquor control
commissioner and the state liquor control commission.
   N.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   O.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of subsection (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1, or as proscribed by
section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of the criminal code of 1961, or as proscribed by a
statute replace by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   P.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act 3  or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act 4
.
   Q.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/621.
(1999 Code § 3.04; amd. Ord. 2002-07, 6-11-2002; 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
2 2. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
4 2. 230 20/1 et seq.
3-1-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Application for a liquor license shall be forwarded to the chief of police. It
shall be the duty of the chief of police to cause an investigation of such
applicant and to report in writing, within sixty (60) days, to the liquor
commissioner as to the applicant's character. No license shall be issued until
such report has been completed and filed with the liquor commissioner. (1999
Code § 3.05)
3-1-8: TERMINATION OF LICENSE; PRORATION AND REFUND OF FEES; PAYMENT OF RENEWAL
FEES:
Each retail liquor dealer's license shall terminate on April 30 next following
its issuance. The renewal fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the
full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of
the license. A refund shall be made to any licensee discontinuing business
during the month of May of any year for the remaining eleven (11) calendar
months of the unexpired term of said license, and no other refunds on licenses
shall be made to the licensee except as provided in section
3-1-12 of this chapter. Renewal license fees shall be paid in advance. (1999
Code § 3.08)
3-1-9: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
Retail dealer's licenses shall be divided into the following classes:
   A.   Class A License: Class A license shall authorize the retail sale on the
premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as well
as other retail sale of such liquor. Without exception, the gross receipts for
such premises must reflect, based on each preceding federal tax year, at least
seventy five percent (75%) from the sale of alcoholic liquor, and no more than
twenty five percent (25%) of said gross receipts shall be from the sale of
other goods or services other than alcoholic liquor. The fee for such license
shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each year that the license is
issued in the name of such licensee.
   B.   Class B License: Class B license shall authorize the retail sale of
beer and wine by "beer and wine establishments", as defined in section
3-1-2 of this chapter, for consumption on the premises only. The fee for such
license shall be six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) for each year that the
license is issued in the name of the licensee.
   C.   Class C License: Class C license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by "clubs", as defined in section
 3-1-2 of this chapter, for consumption on the premises as well as other retail
sales of such liquor. The fee for such license shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each year that the license is issued in the name of such
licensee.
   D.   Class D License: Class D license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises only. The fee for such
license shall be six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00) for each year that the
license is issued in the name of such licensee.
   E.   Class E License: Class E license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by "restaurants", as defined in section
3-1-2 of this chapter, for consumption on the premises. The fee for such
license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each year that the
license is issued in the name of such licensee.
   F.   Class F License: Class F license shall authorize the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor by "hotels", as defined in section
 3-1-2 of this chapter, for consumption on the premises. The fee for such
license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each year that the
license is issued in the name of such licensee. (1999 Code § 3.06)
   G.   Class G License: Class G license shall authorize the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of an operating "bowling alley";
provided, that said bowling alley shall contain not less than six (6) lanes for
bowling. The annual fee for said license shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Said bowling alley shall derive not less than ten percent (10%) of
its gross revenues from bowling or goods and services other than alcoholic
liquor. An area shall be designated within said bowling alley for said service
of alcoholic liquor and separated from the rest of the bowling alley in
accordance with plans approved by the liquor commissioner. Said area for the
service of alcoholic liquor may contain a bar of sufficient size to accommodate
not more than two (2) seating places per bowling lane in the bowling alley, it
being the intention of the liquor commissioner to authorize the service of
alcoholic liquor as an adjunct to bowling activities. The liquor commissioner,
or his designated agent, shall be allowed to examine any records or receipts of
the licensee at any time. (1999 Code § 3.06; amd. 2005 Code)
   H.   Class H License: Class H license shall authorize the retail sale and/or
the sampling of wine only, produced from fruits or plants, on the premises
specified. The days and hours for the retail sale and/or the sampling of wine
shall coincide with the days and hours listed in this chapter. The fee for such
license shall be one hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for each year that
the license is issued in the name of such licensee. (Ord. 2004-22, 8-10-2004)
3-1-10: PAYMENT AND DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All liquor license fees shall be paid to the liquor commissioner at the time
application is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the village
treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, the fee shall be
deposited in the general corporate fund or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the village board. (1999 Code § 3.09)
3-1-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The number of licenses authorized to be issued in each classification is as
follows:
Class A 2
Class B 2
Class C 2
Class D 2
Class E 2
Class F 2
Class G 2
Class H 2
 
(1999 Code § 3.28; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-12: NONTRANSFERABILITY, RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Nontransferability: A license issued under this chapter shall be purely
a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless
sooner revoked and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided, that the executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may contain the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor, under order of the appropriate court,
and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license but no longer than six (6) months after
the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of
that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee
shall be prohibited from operating under such license in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection. (1999 Code § 3.12)
   B.   Renewals: Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof,
provided he is then qualified to receive a license, and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose, and provided
further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed
as a vested right which shall not in any case prevent the village president and
board of trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within
its jurisdiction. No retailer's license shall be renewed if the department of
revenue has reported to the Illinois liquor control commission that such
retailer is delinquent in filing any required tax returns or paying any amounts
owed to the state until the applicant is issued a certificate by the department
of revenue stating that all delinquent returns or amounts owed have been paid
by guaranteed remittance or the payment agreement to pay all amounts owed has
been accepted by the department. No retailer's license issued by the local
liquor commissioner shall be renewed unless the applicant provides
documentation that any tax owed to the village by the applicant has been
satisfied by payment in the form of a cashier's check, certified check, money
order, or cash. (1999 Code § 3.12; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Dishonored Payments: A negotiable instrument received as payment for a
license fee, transfer fee, late fee, offer in compromise, predisciplinary
conference settlement, or fine imposed by order that is dishonored on
presentation shall not be considered payment and shall be cause for
disciplinary action. (2005 Code)
3-1-13: RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN LICENSES:
   A.   Class F License: No class F license shall be issued to any hotel unless
such hotel shall contain eight (8) or more rooms for sleeping accommodations of
such guests and unless such hotel shall contain one or more public dining rooms
with a minimum seating capacity of forty (40) guests where meals are served to
such guests; such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in
the same building or buildings in connection therewith, and such building or
buildings being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
   B.   Class E License: No class E license shall be issued to any restaurant
which does not strictly comply with all requirements for a "restaurant", as
defined in section
3-1-2 of this chapter. (1999 Code § 3.07)
   C.   Class E, F Or G License: No class E, F or G license shall be issued
except to the qualified holder of a certificate of occupancy properly issued by
the code official; provided, however, that the village board may enter into any
agreement with an applicant for a license as is deemed by the liquor
commissioner to be necessary and proper for the issuing of such license where
such applicant has applied for a building permit, has filed complete building
plans prepared by an architect or licensed structural engineer and has shown
evidence of an ability to proceed and complete the construction according to
the permit plans within a period of time from the date of issuance of the
building permit, said permit not to exceed two (2) years as determined by the
liquor commissioner. Any such agreement shall require of such applicant the
posting of bond guaranteeing the completion of the structure for which such
class E, F or G license is sought within said period of time not to exceed two
(2) years in compliance with the ordinances of the village. (1999 Code § 3.07;
amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-14: LOCATION, PREMISES AND OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sales In Residential Districts Prohibited: All territory within the
village is determined to be predominantly residential in character. It shall be
unlawful to sell or offer for sale or retain any alcoholic liquor within any
portion of the village unless the area in which such sale is sought is zoned
other than R-1 or R-2 as defined in the zoning regulations of the village 1 .
(1999 Code § 3.20)
   B.   Restricted Locations: No license shall be issued for the sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school,
other than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or
indigent persons or for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or
naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels
offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food
shops or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal
business carried on, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or
school where the church or school has been established within such one hundred
feet (100') since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a
church, the distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the
nearest part of any building used for worship services or educational programs
and not to property boundaries. (1999 Code § 3.21; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only within the premises described in the application
and license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make
such change issued by the liquor commissioner. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the
village. (1999 Code § 3.13)
   D.   View From Street:
      1.   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed (other than a restaurant, hotel or club), no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be permitted in the
windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises which shall prevent a clear
view into the interior of such licensed premises from the street or alley at
all times. No booth, screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting, shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street or alley or sidewalk.
      2.   The premises shall be so located that there shall be a full view of
the entire interior of such premises from the street, alley, road or sidewalk.
All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural or artificial white light
so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly visible.
      3.   In case the view into any such licensed premises shall be wilfully
obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license shall be subject to
revocation. In order to enforce the provisions of this subsection, the liquor
commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
      4.   No window display of liquor shall be permitted. (1999 Code § 3.23;
amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Occupancy: In addition to any other requirements of the village
concerning occupancy of premises, no licensee, his agent or employee shall
permit more than one person per each fifteen (15) square feet of floor space
within the licensed premises. For purposes of this subsection, "licensed
premises" shall not include kitchen area, storage area and/or other similar
areas which are used by the licensee and/or his employees and not used by or
open to the licensee's patrons. (1999 Code § 3.29)
   F.   Sanitary Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance with the
provisions of ordinances regulating the condition of premises for the storage
or sale of food for human consumption. (1999 Code § 3.18)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 6 of this code.
3-1-15: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale in the village at retail
any alcoholic liquor between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon Sunday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on any weekday. Hours shall be as
follows: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, establishments may be open
from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight; Friday
and Saturday, establishments may be open from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day; Sunday, establishments may be open from
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (Ord. 2010-05, 6-
8-2010)
   B.   All establishments shall close at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Christmas
Eve and shall not open until six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Christmas Day and shall
be allowed to remain open until two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on New Year's Eve. If
New Year's Eve falls on a weekday, weekday opening hours shall prevail, and if
New Year's Day falls on a Sunday, the opening shall be at twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon. (1999 Code § 3.22)
3-1-16: UNDERAGE PERSONS:
   A.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years, not accompanied by
his parent or legal guardian, shall enter or remain in any premises licensed by
the village for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail, except a person under
the age of twenty one (21) years may enter or remain in any premises licensed
class A, B, C, E, F or G in an area other than the bar area.
      2.   No licensee, his agent or his employee shall permit or allow a
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, not accompanied by his parent or
legal guardian, to enter or remain in the licensee's premises, except a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years may be allowed to enter or remain in any
premises licensed class A, B, C, E, F or G in an area other than the bar area.
   B.   Sales To Prohibited: No licensee shall sell, or permit to be sold
through his employees or agents, any alcoholic liquor at retail to any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   Identification Required: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or his
agents or employees to sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor before demanding
presentation of some form of positive identification with the purchaser's
picture imprinted on it containing adequate written evidence of age and
identity of the person; the document shall be issued by a federal, state,
county, or municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including,
but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a registration
certificate issued under the federal selective service act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces; where such licensee
or his agents or employees believe or have reason to believe that a sale or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the age of the
prospective recipient. (1999 Code § 3.24; amd. 2005 Code)
   D.   Misrepresenting Age: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
shall represent that he is of age for the purpose of violating any prohibited
conduct specified in this chapter. (1999 Code § 3.26)
   E.   Furnishing To, Consumption By: Any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years shall not be given or permitted to drink any alcoholic liquor in or
upon the premises licensed for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor.
   F.   Purchase And Possession: Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age shall not purchase or accept a
gift of or have alcoholic liquor in his possession. No person shall purchase,
accept, deliver or have possession of alcoholic liquor in violation of this
section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under twenty one
(21) years of age is unlawful. (1999 Code § 3.24)
   G.   Prohibitions Restricted To Underage Persons: No licensee, his agent or
his employee shall deny to another who is, by this section and law, otherwise
entitled to consume alcoholic beverages any full and equal enjoyment of the
licensed premises, facilities or services because of age unless the person to
be so denied is below the age of twenty one (21) years. (1999 Code § 3.24; amd.
2005 Code)
   H.   Exemptions: The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years in the performance of a religious
service or ceremony, or the consumption by a person under the age of twenty one
(21) years under the direct supervision and approval of the parent or parents
of such minor in the privacy of a home is not prohibited by this section. (1999
Code § 3.24)
3-1-17: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Allowing Consumption: It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a
class A, B, C, D, E, F, G or H license to offer for sale any alcoholic liquor
for consumption on or off the premises where sold. (1999 Code § 3.10; amd. 2005
Code)
   B.   Peddling Liquor: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village. (1999 Code § 3.15)
   C.   Employees Under Influence: No applicant, employee or agent of a retail
liquor dealer license holder may be under the influence of any alcoholic liquor
and/or illegal drug while performing duties of employment or acting as a
volunteer of employment at the address of the retail liquor license. Any
violation of this subsection shall be covered under section
3-1-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-04, 4-9-2002)
   D.   Tampering With, False Identification: It shall be unlawful for any
person to transfer, alter or deface an identification card, to use the
identification card of another person, carry or use false or forged
identification or obtain an identification card by means of false information
for the purpose of buying, accepting or receiving alcoholic liquor or
attempting to buy, accept or receive alcoholic liquor. (1999 Code § 3.25)
3-1-18: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Open Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on any
street, alley or other way publicly maintained, an open container of alcoholic
beverage. A "container of alcoholic beverage", for the purpose of this
subsection, shall be any bottle, glass, cup, can or other container. "Open"
shall mean unsealed to the air, the same being a bottle with its cap off, a can
with its lid open in any manner, or a glass or cup not hermetically sealed.
"Alcohol" shall be defined as in section
3-1-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Sales From Original Containers: It shall be unlawful for any licensee,
his agent or employee to sell for consumption not on the licensed premises, any
alcoholic liquor in other than its original package ("original package" shall
mean bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or other receptacle
or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled by the
manufacturer of such alcoholic liquor to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor); provided further, that in the case of beer or malt liquor, "original
package" shall mean in the case or carton and not single containers of less
than seven (7) ounce capacity. No licensee, his agents or employees shall
permit and no person shall remove from the licensed premises any alcoholic
liquor except in its "original package" as defined in this subsection.
   C.   Materials; Plastic And Paper Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to serve
alcoholic liquor for consumption on licensed premises in any container other
than in a cast plastic, glass or other similar porcelain type material. Single
use plastic and paper containers are expressly prohibited. (1999 Code § 3.17)
3-1-19: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
   A.   No licensee, his agent or employee shall allow or permit any person to
perform acts of or acts which simulate:
      1.   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation or any sexual act which is prohibited by law.
      2.   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus or
genitals.
      3.   The displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva or genitals.
      4.   The displaying of the breast so as to expose the nipple of the
female breast.
      5.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts and/or a live
performance which is prohibited by subsection A1, A2, A3 or A4 of this section.
   B.   No licensee, his agent or employee shall allow or permit any person to
remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion
of his or her genitals or anus. (1999 Code § 3.30; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-20: TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   Authorized: The liquor commissioner is authorized to issue a temporary
liquor license to any nonprofit religious, charitable, fraternal, educational
or veterans' organization operating within the village, hereinafter termed, for
purposes of this section, "nonprofit organization".
   B.   Application For License: Any nonprofit organization desiring a
temporary liquor license shall make application therefor in writing to the
liquor commissioner through the village clerk and accompany their application
with the required license fee. The application shall be verified and be upon a
form prepared by the village clerk and shall contain that information as far as
is applicable as is required by this section for liquor licenses. All
applications for temporary liquor licenses shall be made ten (10) days prior to
the date of the event. The application, in addition to the above required
information, shall indicate the nonprofit organization which is applying for
the license. (1999 Code § 3.14)
   C.   License Fee: The fee for a temporary liquor license shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00). There will be no application fee for temporary licenses.
(Ord. 2004-18, 7-13-1004)
   D.   Insurance Requirements: Applicants shall provide evidence of proper
dram shop insurance issued by a company with a B+ rating or better, in a class
of 7 or better. Said insurance policy shall be nonassessable and include the
following minimum limits of coverage: bodily injury per person, one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00); bodily injury per occurrence, three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00); injury to means of support, one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00); and property damage, one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00).
   E.   Number Of Licenses Per Year: No more than one temporary liquor license
shall be issued to any nonprofit organization during any calendar year.
   F.   Term Of License; Location: All such temporary licenses shall be valid
for a period of eighteen (18) hours as specified in the license and at the
place specified in the application. It shall be unlawful for any nonprofit
organization to sell alcoholic beverages at any time other than the eighteen
(18) hour period specified or at a place other than as specified in the license
application and approved by the liquor commissioner.
   G.   Application Of Liquor Regulations; Trash, Litter And Parking: All
provisions of this chapter not inconsistent with the stated terms of this
section shall apply to temporary liquor licenses. No license shall be issued
unless all of the criteria for a license established by this section have been
met. In addition thereto, no temporary license shall be issued unless adequate
trash receptacles are provided and sanitation provisions are made. The
applicant is responsible for control of litter and other material during and
after the event, and in addition, the applicant is responsible for
demonstrating that adequate parking is available. (1999 Code § 3.14)
3-1-21: RECORD OF LICENSES:
The liquor commissioner shall keep a complete record of all licenses issued and
shall furnish the clerk, treasurer and chief of police each with a copy
thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license, or the revocation of any old
license, the liquor commissioner shall give written notice of such action to
each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action. (1999 Code
§ 3.11)
3-1-22: LIABILITY OF LICENSEE:
Every act or omission, of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer and licensee, and said employer and licensee shall be punishable in
the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or committed by him
personally. (1999 Code § 3.19; amd. 2005 Code)
3-1-23: HEARINGS:
A liquor license may be revoked or suspended and/or a fine imposed by the
liquor commissioner only after a public hearing as follows:
   A.   Hearing Required; Notice: No license shall be revoked or suspended, nor
shall a fine be imposed, except after a public hearing with a three (3) day
written notice to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear
and defend. The public hearing shall be held by the liquor commissioner.
   B.   Appeals: The licensee, after the receipt of such order of suspension or
revocation, has the right of appealing the order to the state liquor control
commission for a decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the order of the
liquor commissioner. If the state liquor control commission confirms the liquor
commissioner's order to suspend or revoke the license at the first hearing, the
appellant shall cease to engage in the business for which the license was
issued until the liquor commissioner's order is terminated by his own
provisions or reversed upon a rehearing or by the courts.
   C.   Procedures:
      1.   The licensee shall at all times be afforded due process including
the right to subpoena witnesses in his own behalf, the right to hear witnesses
and evidence given against him, the right to counsel, the right to cross
examination, and the right to demand a written specification of charges against
him in advance of the hearing.
      2.   Witnesses shall be sworn, but in all other respects, the hearings
shall be informal, and strict rules of evidence shall not apply.
      3.   A certified court reporter shall, at the public hearing, take the
complete record of all evidence, testimony and comments and, upon notification
by the liquor commissioner, shall prepare a certified official record of the
proceedings suitable for filing with the state liquor control commission and
that all reviews of the proceedings of the liquor commissioner be on the record
so that the state commission's scope of review is limited to those three (3)
instances stated therein. The cost of taking and preparing the certified
official record of the proceeding shall be shared equally between the liquor
commissioner and the licensee, with payment of the licensee's share to be made
to the village at or before the time the order of the liquor commissioner
becomes effective; provided however, if the order, action or decision of the
liquor commissioner is reversed by the state commission or a court of law, any
such payment made by the licensee shall be returned.
   D.   False Statements Prohibited: No person shall make a false statement to
the liquor commissioner, material to the issue or point in question, knowing
such statement to be false. (1999 Code § 3.33)
3-1-24: FINE, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   A.   After public hearing as provided herein, and if the liquor commissioner
determines that any of the grounds for fine and/or suspension or revocation of
a license exists as stated in this chapter, the liquor commissioner may do any
of the following:
      1.   Impose a fine against the licensee. Any fine imposed shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve
(12) month period, one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second
violation within a twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12)
month period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation for which a separate fine may be assessed. Fines may be
payable in the manner indicated in any order which results from a hearing, or
as the liquor commissioner may otherwise specify in writing, and the failure to
pay any part of the fine as so indicated or specified may result in the license
being summarily suspended or revoked by the liquor commissioner. The licensee
may request a hearing on such action; but pending a hearing and a decision
thereon by the liquor commissioner, the license shall remain suspended or
revoked. It shall be the duty of each licensee who cannot make a fine payment
as indicated or specified to request a hearing at the earliest possible time to
explain the situation and request that license(s) not be suspended or revoked,
as provided for herein, or for any other reason. Any fine may be collected in
court as provided by law. (1999 Code § 3.34; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   May suspend the liquor license of such licensee for a period of not
more than thirty (30) days.
      3.   May revoke the liquor license of such licensee.
      4.   May suspend the liquor license and fine the licensee for a term and
an amount consistent with the subsections A1 and A2 of this section.
   B.   In making this determination to reprimand, fine or suspend or revoke,
or in determining the amount of a fine imposed or the length of a suspension
imposed, the liquor commissioner may consider any of the following:
      1.   The nature of the violation.
      2.   Past violations of the licensee occurring within the immediately
preceding three (3) year period.
      3.   Past action of the liquor commissioner in comparable situations.
      4.   The factual situation and circumstances surrounding the violation as
presented at the public hearing. (1999 Code § 3.34)
3-1-25: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense unless a different fine is provided. (1999
Code § 3.36; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS 1
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required; Exemptions
3-2-3: Registration Requirements; Fee
3-2-4: Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-2-5: Contents Of License
3-2-6: Term Of License; Nontransferability
3-2-7: Display Of License
3-2-8: Restrictions On Peddling And Soliciting
3-2-9: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-2-10: Appeals
3-2-11: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-11 of this code for street vendors.
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CANVASSER: A person engaged in the occupation of going from place to place
in the village on the public ways and commercial establishments or in or on
residential property to contact residents of the village or other persons in
the village where there is no request, invitation or appointment for such
contact, and who takes orders for commodities or articles for future delivery.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT: A person engaged in business who conducts a temporary or
transient business in the village of selling commodities, articles or services
with the intention of continuing such business in the village for not more than
one hundred twenty (120) days, and who, in such business, uses, leases or
occupies all or part of any room, structure or vacant lot in the village for
the display of such commodities, or articles, or in connection with the
offerings of such services.
   PEDDLER: A person engaged in business who sells or offers for sale any
commodity or article, traveling from place to place in the village, or who
sells or offers for sale and delivery from any vehicle going from place to
place in the village any commodity or article and to carry such commodity with
him for delivery at the time of sale.
   PLACE TO PLACE: Includes residential, industrial and business
establishments, but does not apply to the wholesale selling of commodities or
articles for their resale or use in industrial or business establishments.
   SOLICITOR: A person engaged in business going from place to place in the
village soliciting subscriptions for, or subscription is made or entered into
for, books, magazines, newspapers or other periodicals or publications for
immediate or future delivery, or going from place to place in the village
offering to furnish services or inviting orders for services. (1999 Code §
6.03)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
No person shall work or act as a peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant or
canvasser without a license; provided, however, that the licensing provisions
herein shall not be required for the following:
   A.   Any church, congregation, religious society, group or order which
solicits funds for religious purposes.
   B.   Any organization which solicits funds solely from its own members or
from its own assemblies not using public streets or public places for such
purposes.
   C.   Any person under the age of sixteen (16) years.
   D.   Any person soliciting or canvassing on behalf of a community enrichment
or community enhancement program for the purpose of benefiting that community.
(1999 Code § 6.04)
3-2-3: REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS; FEE:
   A.   To obtain a license under this chapter, a person must register with the
police department and furnish in writing the following information:
      1.   Name, description and tax or social security number of applicant.
      2.   Permanent and local address.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be
sold.
      4.   The name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or with whom he is associated, if any.
      5.   The length of time the applicant wishes to be engaged in such
activity and the exact days and hours on which applicant intends to be in the
village engaged in such activity.
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, description of the same or other means
of identification.
      7.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of any
misdemeanors or felonies and, if so, the nature of such misdemeanors or
felonies.
      8.   Whether or not the applicant or the organization with which the
applicant is associated is recognized as a charity by the Illinois attorney
general's office.
   B.   At the time of filing, an applicant who is not a resident of the
village shall submit a nonrefundable seventy five dollar ($75.00) application
fee. No fee shall be charged to applicants who are residents of the village.
   C.   Each registrant shall affix his signature to the statement of
information required by this section. (1999 Code § 6.04)
3-2-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the chief of police to promptly make such
verification of the information stated by the applicant as the circumstances
require and to complete such investigation in not more than three (3) days
after the filing of an application.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage as a peddler, solicitor,
itinerant merchant or canvasser within the village until a period of three (3)
days has elapsed from the date on which he has submitted an application and
furnished the information required by this chapter, unless prior to the
expiration of that three (3) day period, the chief of police advises the
registrant that the facts stated by him in compliance with the registration
requirement have been sufficiently verified.
   C.   All such applications, upon being processed by the police department,
shall be submitted to the village clerk with a determination as to whether or
not all requirements of this chapter have been met. If the applicant does not
meet the requirements, the police chief shall advise the village clerk that no
license shall be issued. If the requirements are satisfactorily met, then a
license shall be issued.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage as a peddler, solicitor,
itinerant merchant or canvasser within the village if any of the information
furnished by him, as required by this chapter, which is material to his
character and responsibility or to the activity which he proposes to engage in
has been falsely stated or is adverse to his character. (1999 Code § 6.04)
3-2-5: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
The license herein required shall express the time it is to operate and
continue; the name of the person and the article, thing or merchandise
licensed; identification of a vehicle, if any; and whether such licensee shall
pass from place to place or remain at a fixed point in the village. (1999 Code
§ 6.04)
3-2-6: TERM OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
Licenses under this chapter shall be granted for the period requested;
provided, however, that no license shall be granted for a period in excess of
one hundred twenty (120) days. Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter are not
assignable or transferable. (1999 Code § 6.04; amd. 2005 Code)
3-2-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person engaging as a peddler, solicitor, itinerant
merchant or canvasser within the village to show the license issued to him by
the village clerk, as provided in this chapter, to the person to be solicited
at the time of introduction and upon request. It shall be deemed a violation of
this section to fail or refuse to display a current license issued by the
village of Waterman. (1999 Code § 6.04; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 3-14-2006)
3-2-8: RESTRICTIONS ON PEDDLING AND SOLICITING:
   A.   Hours: No person, while conducting the activities of a peddler or
solicitor, whether licensed or unlicensed, shall enter upon any private
property, knock on doors, or otherwise disturb persons in their residences
between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
   B.   Noise: No peddler, solicitor, itinerant merchant or canvasser shall
carry on his trade by means of loud outcries or other noises that unreasonably
alarm residents of the village.
   C.   Rights Maintained: No provision of this chapter shall be construed so
as to deprive any person of his right of freedom of religion or freedom of
speech as guaranteed by the constitution of the state of Illinois or the
constitution of the United States or as any infringement upon businesses
engaged in interstate commerce. (1999 Code § 6.03)
   D.   Uninvited Peddling And Soliciting:
      1.   Notice Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter
upon any property of another in the village after receiving, immediately prior
to such entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden,
or to remain upon the property of another after receiving notice from the owner
or occupant to depart. A person shall be deemed to have received notice from
the owner or occupant within the meaning of this subsection if he has been
notified personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written
notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted at the main entrance
to said property or the forbidden part thereof. The owner or occupant of any
residence who desires to forbid trespasses by solicitors or peddlers, or
unlicensed solicitors and peddlers, may attach or exhibit upon or near the main
front door, and the main rear or side door (if any and if to be protected), a
card or plaque stating such of the following as may be appropriate, in letters
at least one-third inch (1/3") in height:
   Solicitors and Peddlers Prohibited
   or
   Solicitors and Peddlers Prohibited unless
   Registered with the Village
      2.   Violations: Any person soliciting or peddling who is forbidden entry
by a notice given in compliance with this subsection shall be deemed guilty of
remaining on the property after receiving notice to depart if he shall ring the
doorbell or knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of
the occupant.
      3.   Exemptions: Notices exhibited pursuant to this subsection shall not
be deemed applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by
a solicitor or peddler who has received prior invitation, written or oral, from
the owner or occupant thereof. (2005 Code)
3-2-9: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or denied by the
Village after notice given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of
the complaint for any of the following causes:
   A.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
   B.   Conviction of any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in
connection with the selling of goods, wares, service or merchandise.
   C.   Any violation of this chapter. (1999 Code § 6.04)
   D.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or misdemeanor within the
pastten (10) years.
   E.   Conviction of any crime involving stalking, burglary or moral
turpitude, or status as a registered sex offender. (Ord. 2006-03, 3-14-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-10, 10-10-2023)
3-2-10: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village clerk in regard to denial
of application for license as provided in this chapter, or in connection with
the revocation of a license as provided in this chapter, shall have the right
to appeal to the village board of trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing a written statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal with the
village clerk within fourteen (14) days after the notice of the decision by the
village clerk or decision of the mayor has been mailed to such person's last
known address. The village board of trustees shall then schedule a hearing on
such appeal at the next regular board meeting. Notice of such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided herein for notice of
hearing of revocation. (1999 Code § 6.04; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2006-03, 3-14-
2006)
3-2-11: PENALTIES:
Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a second offense, and not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent offense. The
maximum fine in each instance shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per offense. (Ord. 2006-03, 3-14-2006)
CHAPTER 3
POOL AND BILLIARD HALLS
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required
3-3-2: Application For License; Qualifications Of Licensee
3-3-3: License Fees
3-3-4: Nontransferability Of License
3-3-5: Compliance With Provisions; Revocation Of License For Violations;
Appeals
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or conduct a pool or
billiard hall within the corporate limits of the village without first having
been granted a license to do so by the village board of trustees. (1999 Code §
6.05)
3-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
Before any license shall be granted, the person desiring same shall make
application to the village board of trustees in writing, stating the location
of the building. No license shall be granted to any person not of good moral
character, nor until the license fee is paid to the village clerk. (1999 Code §
6.05)
3-3-3: LICENSE FEES:
The license fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first table,
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the second table and fifteen dollars ($15.00)
for each additional table. (1999 Code § 6.05)
3-3-4: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
No license issued hereunder shall be transferable. (1999 Code § 6.05)
3-3-5: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATIONS;
APPEALS:
The license shall be subject to all ordinances in relation to such license
which may be in force at the time of issuing same or made subsequent thereto.
If any person licensed shall violate any provision of any ordinance in relation
to his license, or conduct his business in a disorderly or offensive manner, or
in any manner violate any ordinance, his license may be revoked by the mayor.
Appeals regarding said revocation shall be made to the village board of
trustees. (1999 Code § 6.05; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FOOD TRUCK VENDOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Permit
3-4-3: Vendor Requirements
3-4-4: Provisions For Operation Of A Mobile Food Vendor
3-4-5: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                         An area designated by the Village as an available
                         location for the operation of a mobile food vendor in
DESIGNATED VENDING AREA: accordance with this chapter. Nothing shall authorize
                         operation of a mobile food vendor on private property
                         without the express permission of the owner of said
                         property.
                         A self-contained food service operation, which
                         includes serving food and/or beverages, located in a
MOBILE FOOD TRUCK:       readily movable, licensed, motorized wheeled vehicle
                         or towed trailer, used to store, prepare, display or
                         serve food intended for individual portion service.
                         A person, entity, or business that sells, serves,
                         offers for sale, or gives away prepared food and/or
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:      beverages from any mobile food truck, or any non-
                         motorized vehicle, trailer or cart. (Ord. 2020-11, 10-
                         13-2020)
 
3-4-2: PERMIT:
   A.   No person or business shall operate as a mobile food vendor without
first having obtained a vendor permit from the village.
   B.   All mobile food vendors shall apply for a vendor permit for one
calendar year to operate within the village. Permits should be renewed
annually.
   C.   Application for such shall be made to the village clerk upon the
prescribed form provided by the same. The application shall include, or be
accompanied by, at a minimum:
      1.   The name and address and telephone number of applicant(s). If
applicant is a corporation, limited liability company, or partnership, then the
names, telephone number and addresses of all parties holding more than a five
percent ownership or control interest shall also be provided.
      2.   The name, telephone number, and address of the party responsible for
the day-to-day management/operations of the business.
      3.   A copy of the health permit(s) under which applicant will be
operating.
      4.   Certificate of Insurance showing insurance.
      5.   Copy of current, valid, registration of the vehicle or trailer.
      6.   A description of the business and services.
      7.   Annual non-refundable permit fee. (Ord. 2020-11, 10-13-2020)
3-4-3: VENDOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A mobile food truck vendor must hold the following certifications at
all times of operation within the village and documentation of such shall be
provided to the village clerk upon application for a mobile food vendor permit,
and at any other time upon request by the village:
      1.   Valid DeKalb County Health Department Permit.
      2.   Vehicle and general liability insurance certificates, each
evidencing at least $1,000,000.00 coverage and naming the Village of Waterman
as an additional insured.
      3.   Must have a valid state license plate for either a truck or trailer.
      4.   Any other permits/licenses which may be required by applicable
federal, state, or local laws, statutes, regulations, or ordinances. (Ord.
2020-11, 10-13-2020)
3-4-4: PROVISIONS FOR OPERATION OF A MOBILE FOOD VENDOR:
No person shall operate as a mobile food vendor except in accordance with the
following provisions at all times.
   A.   Mobile food vendors can operate at designated areas on a “first come,
first served” basis.
   B.   Mobile food vendors are permitted in commercial and industrial zoned
sites.
   C.   Parking of any other vehicles, including vehicles used to tow, within
the designated areas during the operation of a mobile food truck is prohibited.
   D.   Tents, tables, or chairs may be placed within the designated areas, if
it does not impede traffic or cause a safety hazard.
   E.   Noise from mobile food vendor, including, but not limited to,
generators and music, shall not exceed 75 decibels as measured ten feet from
any part of the mobile food truck.
   F.   Mobile food vendors shall collect all trash and debris resulting from
the operation of the mobile food vendor businesses.
   G.   Mobile food vendors operating on private property shall provide
certification or other acceptable proof, upon request by the village, that the
property owner has granted permission for such operation.
   H.   Mobile food vendors operating in any designated area which is in a
public street, road or right-of-way shall observe the following rules:
      1.   Double-parking is not allowed.
      2.   The mobile food truck shall be parked within 12 inches of the curb
if possible, but in no event more than 24 inches from the curb.
      3.   No portion of the mobile food truck, or any extension thereof, or
adjacent service area shall block, obstruct, or interfere with vehicular,
bicycle, or pedestrian traffic.
      4.   No portion of the mobile food truck shall be within 50 feet of an
intersection.
      5.   The mobile food vendor shall be responsible to ensure that no
congregation of persons around the mobile food truck creates an obstruction or
safety hazard to passerby, whether vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian.
   I.   Mobile food vendor (or any employee thereof) shall always be present
during all posted or advertised operating hours. Temporary closure for the
purpose of restocking supplies or otherwise carrying out tasks necessary for
continued operation shall be permitted.
   J.   Mobile food vendors shall be responsible for the proper disposal of all
grease, litter and waste generated by their operation.
   K.   Mobile food vendors conducting retail sales shall not utilize extension
cords in such a manner as to cross a public right-of-way or sidewalk.
Exceptions to this provision may be granted for special events and all cords
must be properly secured.
   L.   Mobile food vendors shall not conduct any major repairs or disassembly
of a vehicle or trailer directly at the site of operation.
   M.   Mobile food vendors shall not operate any closer than 50 feet from any
restaurant without first receiving permission from that restaurant.
   N.   All mobile food vendors shall abide by any and all other federal,
state, and local laws, ordinances, and regulations applicable to mobile food
vendors. (Ord. 2020-11, 10-13-2020)
3-4-5: PENALTIES:
Any person found to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a second offense, and not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent offense. The
maximum fine in each instance shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) per offense. (Ord. 2006-03, 3-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2020-11, 10-13-2020)
CHAPTER 5
CHARITABLE RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Short Title
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Charitable Raffle License Required
3-5-4: License Classes
3-5-5: License Application
3-5-6: Eligibility For License
3-5-7: Ineligibility For License
3-5-8: Conduct Of Raffles
3-5-9: Records
3-5-10: Manager’s Bond
3-5-11: License Suspension Or Revocation
3-5-12: Enforcement
3-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Charitable Raffles
Ordinance.” (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
             A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who have
CHAMBER:     joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
             interests of a community.
             An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
CHARITABLE:  indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
             benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
CHARITABLE
RAFFLE       A license to conduct a raffle issued pursuant to this article.
LICENSE:
             An organization or institution organized and operated to provide systematic
EDUCATIONAL: instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to schools and
             institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
             intensity with the course of study presented in tax-supported schools.
             An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary interest of
             which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
FRATERNAL:   assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
             government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
             government.
             An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
LABOR:       betterment of the conditions of a higher degree of efficiency in their
             respective occupations.
NET          The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable sums
PROCEEDS:    expended for prizes, license fees, and other reasonable operating expenses
             incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
             An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not-for-profit
NON-PROFIT:  basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
             operation.
             A procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by chance among
             persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to win such
             prizes in which:
             (1)   The persons pay or agree to pay something of value for a chance,
             represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or
RAFFLE:      by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the
             winning chance; and
             (2)   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
             other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the
             part of persons conducting or connect with the raffle, except that the
             winning chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly
             exhibited sporting contest.
RELIGIOUS:   Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the purposes
             of religious worship.
             An organization or association comprised of members of which substantially
             all are individuals who are veterans of military service, the primary
VETERANS:    purpose of which is to promote the welfare of its members and to provide
             assistance to the general public in such a way as to confer a public
             benefit. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
 
3-5-3: CHARITABLE RAFFLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall conduct a raffle without
having first obtained a charitable raffle license therefore pursuant to this
chapter. A raffle shall be deemed to occur in the village if the determination
of one or more winners thereof is made or announced within the corporate limits
in the village. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-4: LICENSE CLASSES:
Charitable raffle licenses shall come in one of the following classes:
   A.   A class 1 license shall authorize the conducting of multiple raffles by
a single applicant during a specified calendar year. The aggregate retail value
of all prizes awarded as part of a single raffle shall not exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded during
the calendar year shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). In
addition, the maximum retail value of any single prize shall not exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). The annual license fee shall be ten
dollars ($10.00). A class 1 license shall authorize the sale or purchase of
chances in person and on-line Winners shall be determined via manual selection.
   B.   A class 2 license shall authorize the conducting of a single raffle.
Chances for the raffle may be sold after the issuance of the license and up to
three hundred sixty-four (364) days thereafter but all prizes must be awarded
on the same day as part of a single determination. The aggregate retail value
of all prizes awarded shall not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The
annual license fee shall be ten dollars ($10.00). A class 2 license shall
authorize the sale or purchase of chances in person and on-line. Winners shall
be determined via manual selection.
   C.   A class 3 license shall authorize the conducting of a single raffle.
Chances for the raffle may be sold after the issuance of the license and up to
three hundred sixty-four (364) days thereafter but all prizes must be awarded
on the same day as part of a single determination. The maximum price of a
raffle chance shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The aggregate
retail value of all prizes awarded shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($250,000.00). The annual license fee shall be one-half of one (0.5)
percent of the aggregate retail value of the prizes to be awarded. A class 3
license shall authorize the sale or purchase of chances in person and on-line.
Winners shall be determined via manual selection.
   D.   A class 4 license shall authorize the conducting of a single raffle.
Chances for the raffle may be sold after the issuance of the license and up to
three hundred sixty-four (364) days thereafter but all prizes must be awarded
on the same day as part of a single determination.
   E.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded shall not exceed five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). The annual license fee shall be one (1)
percent of the aggregate retail value of the prizes to be awarded. A class 4
license shall authorize the sale and purchase of chances on-line and the manual
or electronic determination of winners. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-5: LICENSE APPLICATION:
All applications for a charitable raffle license shall be submitted to the
Village Clerk prior to the holding of the raffle. The application shall be on a
form prepared and furnished by the Clerk. The application must contain at least
the following information:
   A.   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the applicant,
the raffles manager and the operator of the raffle, if different;
   B.   A sworn statement signed by the presiding officer and secretary of the
applicant attesting to the not-for-profit character of the applicant;
   C.   A statement describing the purpose of the raffle;
   D.   The areas within the village in which raffle chances will be sold or
issued;
   E.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
   F.   The date, time and location of the determination of the winning
chances;
   G.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded by a single
raffle;
   H.   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in a single
raffle;
   I.   The maximum to be charged for each raffle chance;
   J.   The maximum number of chances to be issued;
   K.   The class of license applied for;
   L.   If chances are to be sold on-line, the name, address, telephone number,
and email address of the organization in possession of the computer servers
providing hosting services for the raffle and the URL of all websites at which
the raffle chances may be purchased. If chances are sold in-person, the
specific locations(s) where chances will be sold/issued;
   M.   Identification/contact information of the manager who will run the
raffle and identification/contact information of the record keeper.
   N.   Sworn statement from the application that it will (i) abide by the
Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act; (ii) that each officer, director, employee
would not be ineligible for the license; (iii) that the application is a
charitable organization and (iv) attesting to the truth of the entire
application.
The Board of Trustees shall approve or deny a charitable raffle license within
thirty (30) business days of the submittal of a proper application. The Board
of Trustees may, in its sole discretion, reject any application for a license
if it determines that the rules and regulations of the proposed raffle do not
provide sufficient opportunities to win or do not provide for an acceptable
pay-out of the net proceeds received for the raffle. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-6: ELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
A charitable raffle license may only be issued to a bona fide chamber,
charitable, educational, fraternal, labor, religious or veterans’ organization,
or to a political committee as defined in the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230
ILCS 15/1 et seq.), as amended.
In addition, a qualifying organization must have operated without profit to
their members and have been in existence continuously for a period of five (5)
years immediately before making application for a license and must have had
during that entire five-year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying
out their objectives, or to a non-profit fund raising organization that the
licensing authority determines is organized for the sole purpose of providing
financial assistance to an identified individual or group of individuals
suffering extreme financial hardships as the result of an illness, disability,
accident or disaster.
The Village may waive the requirement that the charitable organization must
have been in existence continuously for a period of five years before making
application for a bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal,
educational, or veterans’ organization that applies for a license to conduct a
raffle if the village’s corporate authorities determine that the organization
is a local organization that is affiliated with and chartered by a national or
state organization that meets the five-year requirement. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-
2022)
3-5-7: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
A charitable raffle license may not be issued to any of the following:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsections A.,
B., or C. has a proprietary, equitable or credit interests, or in which such a
person is active or employed;
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A., B., or C.
is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsections A., B., or C.
is to participate in the management or operation of a raffle. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-
14-2022)
3-5-8: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
All raffles shall be conducted in strict compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances. In addition, all raffles shall be subject to the following
requirements:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of the raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the licensee.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   Winning chances may only be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   E.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license.
   F.   No person under eighteen (18) years of age may participate in the
conducting of raffles, or chances, unless such person has the approval of a
parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-9: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall keep records of its
gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each raffle. All deductions from
gross receipts for each raffle shall be documented with receipts or other
records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service
or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net
proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefore issued by the state department of revenue, and
shall be placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have separate
records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses,
and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report promptly
after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership, and to the Board of
Trustees, its gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds itemized as required
in this section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved three (3) years,
and organizations shall make available their records relating to operation of
raffles for inspection by the Board of Trustees at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-10: MANAGER’S BOND:
All raffles shall be conducted under the supervision of a raffles manager
designated by the licensee. The raffles manager must be a bona fide member of
the licensee and may not receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the raffle. The raffles manager shall give a
fidelity bond in amount of twice the aggregate retail value of the prizes to be
awarded in the raffle conditioned upon his or her honesty in the performance of
his/her duties. Upon the request of a license applicant, the Board of Trustees
may waive this bond requirement for qualifying organizations having a principal
or substantial place of business in the village or in any county in which the
village has territory. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-11: LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A charitable raffle license may be suspended or revoked by the Board of
Trustees after notice and hearing for failure to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
In addition, the Board of Trustees may revoke or suspend a charitable raffle
license after notice and hearing if at any time it appears that the proposed or
actual operation of the raffle will be or is such as to constitute a public
nuisance or the endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
A charitable raffle license may only be suspended or revoked after providing
notice to the licensee and a reasonable opportunity to be heard. A notice of
intent to revoke or suspend shall state the basis for the contemplated action
and shall be given to the licensee at least seven (7) calendar days prior to a
license hearing to be held by the Village President and the Board of Trustees.
Notice shall be delivered in person or by first class mail addressed to the
location specified in the license application. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
3-5-12: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly conduct a raffle in violation
of this article. Violations shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
Section
1-4-1. (Ord. 2022-05, 6-14-2022)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Police Department   1
Animal Control   2
General Offenses   3
Offenses Against Property   3A
Offenses Against Public Peace, Order And Safety   3B
Offenses Against Persons   3C
Minors   4
Nuisances   5
Fireworks   6
Open Burning   7
Medical Cannabis   8
Cannabis   9
Drug Paraphernalia   10
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created; Composition
4-1-2: Chief Of Police
4-1-3: Residency
4-1-4: Oath Of Office
4-1-5: Duties Of Department Members; Supervision
4-1-6: Serve As Witnesses
4-1-7: Removal From Office
4-1-8: Part Time Police
4-1-9: Criminal History Reports
4-1-10: Auxiliary Police
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created and established a department of the Village government
which shall be known as the Police Department. The Police Department shall
consist of the Chief of Police and such other police officers as may be
appointed, hired or otherwise retained from time to time by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2004-23, 12-14-2004)
4-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created: There is hereby created and established the Office of
Chief of Police.
   B.   Appointment And Term: The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The term of
office of the Chief of Police shall be four (4) years and shall run
concurrently with the term of the Mayor.
   C.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Rules And Regulations: The Chief of Police shall make or prescribe
such rules and regulations for the conduct and guidance of the members of the
Police Department as he or she shall deem advisable, and such rules, when
approved by the Village Board of Trustees, shall be binding on such members.
      2.   Attend Meetings; Execute Orders And Processes: The Chief of Police
shall attend, when requested by the Mayor, either in person or by deputy, all
meetings of the Village Board of Trustees, execute all its orders and close the
Board chamber upon the adjournment of that body. The Chief of Police shall also
execute all warrants or other legal process required to be executed by him or
her under any ordinance of the Village or laws of the State.
      3.   Custodian Of Lost, Abandoned And Stolen Property: The Chief of
Police shall be the custodian of all lost and abandoned or stolen property in
the Village.
      4.   Minors: The Chief of Police shall ensure that the Police Department
complies with the requirements of section 3 of the Minor Identification and
Protection Act, enacted by the 83rd General Assembly as found in 325 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/3. (Ord. 2004-23, 12-14-2004)
4-1-3: RESIDENCY:
   A.   Chief Of Police: During his term of office, the Chief of Police shall
reside within thirty (30) miles of the Village of Waterman.
   B.   Other Police Officers: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-
10-6(c), no other part time police officer appointed, hired or otherwise
retained by the Village shall be required to reside within the corporate limits
of the Village, both at the time of appointment or while serving as a police
officer. (Ord. 2019-04, 6-11-2019)
4-1-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
As required by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-25, the Chief of Police
and all other police officers appointed, hired or retained by the Village
shall, before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and
subscribe the oath or affirmation required of them by the Illinois Constitution
and file same with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 2004-23, 12-14-2004)
4-1-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT MEMBERS; SUPERVISION:
The Chief of Police and all other members of the Police Department shall
perform all duties prescribed by the Village Board of Trustees for the
preservation of the public peace and shall enforce all the laws of the Village,
the State and the United States of America. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the performance of the Police Department, and all persons who
are members of the department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of
Police. (Ord. 2004-23, 12-14-2004)
4-1-6: SERVE AS WITNESSES:
It shall be the duty of each and every member of the Police Department to
appear, as may be necessary, as a witness in the prosecution of a violation of
a Village ordinance or of any State or Federal law. No member shall retain any
witness fees for service as a witness in any action or suit to which the
Village is a party, and fees paid for such services shall be turned over to the
Chief of Police, who shall deposit same with the Village Hall. (Ord. 2004-23,
12-14-2004)
4-1-7: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Any member of the Police Department who shall neglect or refuse to perform any
duty required of him or her by the ordinances or resolutions of the Village or
the rules and regulations of the Police Department, or who shall, in the
discharge of his or her official duties, be guilty of fraud, favoritism,
extortion, oppression or wilful wrong or injustice, shall be subject to removal
from office. This provision is not intended to operate in any way as a
limitation upon the Village's ability to act as an "at will" employer. (Ord.
2004-23, 12-14-2004)
4-1-8: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The Village of Waterman may employ part time police
officers from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
general orders of the Waterman Police Department, but the number of hours a
part time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part time
police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full time police
officers. Part time police officers shall be trained in accordance with the
Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the ILETSB.
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate.
      5.   Possess a valid State of Illinois driver's license.
      6.   Possess no prior felony convictions.
      7.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part time police officers serve at the
discretion of the Village authorities, shall not have any property rights in
said employment, and may be removed by the Village authorities at any time.
Part time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and general
orders issued by the Police Department. (Ord. 2012-15, 6-12-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
4-1-9: CRIMINAL HISTORY REPORTS:
The Waterman Police Department is authorized to provide criminal history
reports for individuals for an administrative fee, the amount to be determined
from time to time by the Chief of Police, unless otherwise prohibited by
statute. (Ord. 2015-08, 7-14-2015)
4-1-10: AUXILIARY POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: The Village of Waterman may appoint auxiliary police
officers in such number as they from time to time deem necessary.
   B.   Status: Auxiliary police officers shall not be "conservators of the
peace", as specified in section 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-15-25,
unless such auxiliary police officer has received a certificate attesting to
the successful completion of all required training courses mandated and
administered by the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board.
Auxiliary police officers shall not be considered to be members of the regular
Police Department, and shall not supplement members of the regular Police
Department of the Village in the performance of their assigned and normal
duties except as otherwise provided herein.
   C.   Identification Symbol: Identification symbols worn by the auxiliary
police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
Police Department.
   D.   Supervision: Auxiliary police officers shall, at all times during the
performance of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the
Chief of Police of the Village.
   E.   Powers And Duties: Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to
perform the following duties in the Village:
      1.   To aid or direct traffic within the Municipality,
      2.   To aid in control of natural or man-made disasters, and
      3.   To aid in case of civil disorder as directed by the Chief of Police.
   F.   Hiring Standards: No person shall be appointed as an auxiliary police
officer who has not been fingerprinted, subject to a background check, and
found to have never been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral
turpitude. Auxiliary police officers are not required to be residents of the
Municipality, but shall only be considered for appointment after first meeting
the following minimum qualifications:
      1.   Be no younger than twenty one (21) years of age at the time of
appointment.
      2.   Have earned a high school diploma, or equivalent.
      3.   Be a United States citizen.
      4.   Possess a valid driver license.
      5.   Be of good moral character.
      6.   Any other requirements as set forth in the General Orders, policies,
or directives of the Waterman Police Department, or at the direction of the
Chief of Police of the Waterman Police Department.
   G.   Line Of Duty Compensation Act: The Line of Duty Compensation Act shall
be applicable to auxiliary police officers upon their death in the line of
duty. (Ord. 2017-10, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 6-11-2024; Ord. 2024-05, 6-
11-2024)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Certain Animals Prohibited; Nuisance Declared; Impoundment
4-2-2: Running At Large, Disturbing The Peace, And Removal Of Animal Waste
4-2-3: Number Of Dogs And Cats
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-5: Chickens
4-2-1: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED; NUISANCE DECLARED; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor
any livestock or nondomesticated animals including, but not limited to, horses,
cattle, swine, sheep or goats within the Village limits. Authorized officers
and employees of the Village may impound animals found in violation of this
section. (1999 Code § 4.01; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to keep or harbor
any fowl including, but not limited to, geese, ducks, turkeys, or other poultry
within Village limits except domestic hens. Authorized officers and employees
of the Village may impound fowl in violation of this subsection. (Ord. 2019-01,
3-12-2019)
4-2-2: RUNNING AT LARGE, DISTURBING THE PEACE, AND REMOVAL OF ANIMAL WASTE:
   A.   Running At Large:
      1.   Prohibited; Leash Requirements: No person owning, possessing,
keeping or harboring any dog or cat within the Village shall knowingly or
negligently permit the dog or cat to run at large within the Village. Dogs at
all times shall be kept on a leash no longer than six feet (6') and must be in
the presence of a person capable of controlling the dog, except when confined
within or on the premises of the owner or possessor thereof.
      2.   Impoundment And Redemption: Any dog or cat found running at large in
violation of this subsection may be impounded and declared to be a stray and
may be disposed of by the Village or any officer thereof by delivery to some
proper person able and willing to provide proper care and keep therefor. The
owner of any dog or cat impounded pursuant to this subsection shall be liable
to the Village for the cost of care and keep of such dog or cat while such dog
or cat is impounded and shall pay the full cost thereof upon demand by an
authorized officer or agent of the Village.
   B.   Disturbing The Peace: It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in
charge or control of any dog or for any person who has the authority or power
to prevent the same to suffer or permit any such dog, by barking, howling,
crying or other distracting or loud or unusual noise, to disturb the peace or
quiet of any place, neighborhood or family or person in the Village. The
disturbing of the peace or quiet of any place or neighborhood or family or
person by any such dog is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to suffer or permit any such nuisance to exist. (Ord.
2011-11, 7-12-2011)
   C.   Removal Of Animal Waste:
      1.   Any owner or custodian of a domesticated animal including, but not
by way of limitation, cats and dogs, are prohibited from allowing the
domesticated animal from defecating on streets, sidewalks, public ways, and
others' private property and failing to immediately clean up the excrement and
disposing of it with an appropriate device or bag intended for that purpose.
      2.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall be punishable by the
imposition of a fifty dollar ($50.00) fine per occurrence. (Ord. 2012-21, 10-9-
2012)
4-2-3: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS:
   A.   Number Restricted: No person shall own, possess, keep or harbor more
than two (2) dogs and two (2) cats in any residence within the Village.
   B.   Puppies And Kittens: The owner or person who has custody of a dog or
cat may retain the puppies or kittens, born of said dog or cat, exceeding the
permissible numbers set forth in subsection A of this section for twelve (12)
weeks after the birth of the animals. If, after that time, there are more than
two (2) dogs and two (2) cats in any one residence or apartment, the owner or
person in custody of the dogs or cats will be in violation of this section.
   C.   Existing Conditions; Special Permit: Any person who lawfully owned more
than two (2) dogs or two (2) cats prior to the enactment of this section may
retain their animals, provided they obtain a special permit from the Chief of
Police. The special permit shall be for a term of one year, and no renewal
shall be issued without subsequent inspection. If for any reason an animal is
lost, sold, given away or dies and there still remains in the residence or
apartment two (2) or more dogs or two (2) or more cats, there can be no
replacement of the lost, sold, given or deceased animal. A special permit shall
be issued if, after inspection, it is determined by the Chief of Police or his
representative that:
      1.   The animals in the owner's possession are not creating a nuisance;
      2.   There is adequate waste disposal; and
      3.   There is not a hazard to the public safety, health or welfare. (1999
Code § 4.02)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (1999 Code § 4.03)
4-2-5: CHICKENS:
   A.   Up to six (6) domestic hens may be kept on properties zoned and
occupied for residential use only. Roosters are prohibited.
   B.   No person shall slaughter any chickens in Village limits.
   C.   Chickens shall be provided with the following:
      1.   Chicken area that is no less than thirty six (36) square feet;
      2.   Chicken area must include an enclosure with laying area/box; and
      3.   Access to electricity in the winter months and shall not be provided
by an extension cord or cords.
   D.   Chickens may also be allowed free range in the chicken area with
fencing at least three feet (3') in height.
   E.   The chicken area shall be set back:
      1.   Five feet (5') from the owner's property line;
      2.   Twenty five feet (25') from any adjacent occupied residential
structure, other than that of the owner; and
      3.   Fifty feet (50') from all streets and alleys.
   F.   All chickens shall be kept in a rear yard.
   G.   Hens shall be kept in the chicken area at all times. All areas where
chickens are kept shall be kept neat and clean and free of accumulation of
waste such as to not cause odors detectable on adjacent property. All refuse
shall be disposed of in a clean and sanitary fashion.
   H.   All feed shall be kept in containers that are rodent-proof until put
out for consumption.
   I.   A building permit shall be required for all enclosures and shall incur
a permit fee.
   J.   All persons keeping chickens in the village shall submit a "Keeping of
Chickens" permit application and pay a forty-five dollar ($45.00) non-
refundable fee due at the time the building permit application is submitted.
Chickens cannot reside in the enclosure until the enclosure has passed a final
inspection, been approved by the Building Inspector, and has homeowner's and/or
homeowner's association approval, on the form.
   K.   All persons keeping chickens in the village shall submit a permit
registration renewal annually and shall incur a renewal permit fee of forty-
five dollars ($45.00).
   L.   Failure to comply shall result in a penalty as outlined in section
4-2-4 of this chapter. Repeated or egregious violations will result in
impoundment and permanent revocation of permit. (Ord. 2019-01, 3-12-2019; amd.
Ord. 2019-10, 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Interference With Village Officers And Employees
4-3-2: Indecent Conduct
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No person shall interfere with any village officer or employee engaged in the
performance of his duties. (1999 Code § 15.01)
4-3-2: INDECENT CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent condition in any public place or in any such place to make any
indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof or the private
parts of another or to conduct himself in a lewd or lascivious manner. (1999
Code § 15.04; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense unless otherwise specified herein. (1999 Code §
15.06)
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Trespass On Public Property
4-3A-2: Damaging Or Defacing Property
4-3A-3: Injuring Trees, Fences, Signs
4-3A-4: Removing Cornerstones
4-3A-5: Posting Bills
4-3A-1: TRESPASS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall trespass on any public property. (1999 Code § 15.02)
4-3A-2: DAMAGING OR DEFACING PROPERTY:
   A.   Public Property: No person shall injure, damage, deface, mutilate or
mar any public property.
   B.   Private Property: No person shall injure, damage, deface or mar any
private property without the consent of the owner thereof. (1999 Code § 15.02)
4-3A-3: INJURING TREES, FENCES, SIGNS:
No person who is not the owner thereof shall cut, injure, remove or destroy any
fruit, ornamental or shade trees, or the boxing around the same, or any fence,
railing, gate, post or sign upon any public ground, lawn, sidewalk or private
premises. (1999 Code § 15.02)
4-3A-4: REMOVING CORNERSTONES:
No person shall wilfully or heedlessly change, remove or destroy any stone,
stake or post set or placed to mark the corner of any lot or parcel of land,
street or alley or to show the location or grade of any street, alley or
sidewalk. (1999 Code § 15.02)
4-3A-5: POSTING BILLS:
No person shall paste, post, paint, print or nail or otherwise fasten or append
or distribute any handbill, poster, advertisement or notice of any kind on or
to any curbstone, flagstone, sidewalk, tree, lamppost, hitching post, telephone
post, electric light post, bridge or hydrant, or upon any other article or
property of the village or over which the village has control, or upon any
billboard, wall, door, gate or fence or other private property without the
consent of the owner thereof. (1999 Code § 15.02)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE, ORDER AND SAFETY
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Discharge Of Firearms And Other Weapons
4-3B-2: Throwing Stones
4-3B-3: Obstructing Streets
4-3B-4: Fighting
4-3B-5: Loitering
4-3B-6: Children Under Ten In Skatepark
4-3B-1: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS:
No person shall discharge any firearm, air gun, pellet gun, paintball gun, or
slingshot in the village. This section does not apply to: (1999 Code § 15.03;
amd. 2005 Code)
   A.   Peace officers engaged in the performance of their duties.
   B.   Persons exercising the right of self-defense or defense of others.
   C.   Members of the national guard or armed forces engaged in their official
duties. (1999 Code § 15.03)
4-3B-2: THROWING STONES:
No person shall carelessly throw any rock, stone or other missile into any
public place, or at any house or person, or at any vehicle within the village
limits. (1999 Code § 15.03; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3B-3: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
No unauthorized person or group of persons shall obstruct any street, sidewalk
or public way in the village. (1999 Code § 15.03; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3B-4: FIGHTING:
No person shall engage in any fighting in public. (1999 Code § 15.03)
4-3B-5: LOITERING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or
remain idle either along and/or in consort with others in a public place in
such a manner as to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk
or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction
or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any
business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any
such public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place
or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress
and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   B.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions listed in
subsection A of this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer
shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to
move on or disperse. Any person failing or refusing to obey such orders shall
be guilty of a violation of this section. (1999 Code § 15.03)
4-3B-6: CHILDREN UNDER TEN IN SKATEPARK:
   A.   Any child under the age of ten (10) years must be accompanied by an
adult when engaged in activities in the skatepark.
   B.   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions listed in
subsection A of this section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer
shall order that person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to
vacate the skatepark. Any person failing or refusing to obey such orders shall
be guilty of a violation of this section. (Ord. 2013-04, 6-11-2013)
ARTICLE C. OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
SECTION:
4-3C-1: Assault
4-3C-2: Battery
4-3C-3: Disorderly Conduct
4-3C-1: ASSAULT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit "assault" which is hereby defined
as any conduct, without lawful authority, which places another in reasonable
apprehension of receiving a battery. (1999 Code § 15.05; amd. 2005 Code)
4-3C-2: BATTERY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit battery. A person commits battery
if he intentionally or knowingly, without legal justification, and by any means
causes bodily harm to an individual or makes physical contact of any insulting
or provoking nature with an individual. (1999 Code § 15.05)
4-3C-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid
in making a breach of the peace; or
   B.   Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger or a
breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
   C.   Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of the peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence, and where the police have made reasonable efforts to protect the
otherwise peaceful conduct and activity and have requested that said conduct
and activity be stopped and explain the request if there be time; or (1999 Code
§ 15.05)
   D.   Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known to him to
be a peace officer under circumstances where two (2) or more persons are
committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity, which acts are
likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm;
or (1999 Code § 15.05; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Carries in a threatening or menacing way, without authority of law, any
pistol, revolver, dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles, slingshot
or other dangerous weapon; or conceals said weapon in or about the person or
vehicle; or
   F.   Consumes any alcoholic liquor on any public way or in or about any
motor vehicle upon a public way 1 ; or
   G.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department a false alarm of fire,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is not reasonable grounds
for believing that said fire exists. (1999 Code § 15.05)
   H.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place; or
   I.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   J.   Calls the number "911" for the purpose of making a false alarm or
complaint and report false information which could result in the emergency
response of any public safety agency; or
   K.   Calls the number "911" for any nonemergency purpose or reason, after
having been notified, either verbally or in writing, that such calls are not to
be made on the "E9-1-1" line. (2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-1-18A of this code for open container regulations.
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Tobacco Products
4-4-2: Curfew
4-4-1: TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
   A.   Sales, Possession:
      1.    No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall buy any tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product. No person shall
sell, buy for, distribute samples of any tobacco product, electronic cigarette,
or any alternative nicotine product to any person under twenty-one (21) years
of age.
      2.   Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for in
this subsection shall be posted by every person or business engaging in the
sale of tobacco at or near every display of tobacco products and on or upon
every vending machine which offers tobacco products for sale. Each such sign
shall be plainly visible and shall state:
         THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE IS
PROHIBITED BY LAW.
      3.    Sales by Minors. No person under sixteen (16) years of age may sell
any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product at a
retail establishment. This subsection does not apply to a salesclerk in a
family-owned business which can prove that the salesclerk is in fact a son or
daughter of the owner.
      4.   Purchase by Minors:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years to purchase tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products.
         b.   Before selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing a
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to
another person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving or furnishing the
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product shall
verify that the person is at least twenty-one (21) years of age by examining a
government-issued photographic identification that establishes the person to be
twenty-one (21) years of age or older; or
         c.   For sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products through the Internet or other remote sales
methods, performing an age verification through an independent, third-party age
verification service that compares information available from public records to
the personal information entered by the person during the ordering process that
establishes the person is twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
         d.    No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall display or use
a false or forged identification card to purchase or obtain any tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product.
      5.   Proximity To Certain Institutions: It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products within
five hundred feet (500') of any school, childcare facility or other building
used exclusively for education or recreational programs for persons under the
age of eighteen (18) years, as measured from property line to property line.
      6.   Penalty: If a person under twenty-one (21) years of age violates
this subsection, the person shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
      7.   For the purpose of this Section:
         a.   "Alternative nicotine product" means a product or device not
consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the
body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling,
snorting, sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" does
not include cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Tobacco Products Act of
1995.
         b.   "Electronic cigarette" means:
            (1)   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat
a solution or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
or
            (2)   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance
intended to be used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
            (3)   Any solution or substance, whether it contains nicotine
intended for use on this devise or not.
            (4)   "Electronic cigarette" includes, but is not limited to, any
electronic nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo,
electronic pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device and
any component or parts that can be used to build the product or device.
"Electronic cigarette" does not include cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of
the Cigarette Tax Act and tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the
Tobacco Products Act of 1995.
   B.   Use, Possession Near Schools: It shall be unlawful for any person under
the age of twenty-one (21) to use or possess any tobacco product, electronic
cigarette, or alternative nicotine product, as defined above, within five
hundred feet (500') of any elementary or secondary school as measured from the
property line of such school. Any person violating this subsection shall be
fined not less than twenty-five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense.
(1999 Code §§ 15.03 and 15.05; Ord. 96-18, 10-8-1996; 2005 Code; Ord. 2023-09,
8-8-2023)
4-4-2: CURFEW:
   A.   Children On Streets At Night: It is unlawful for a person less than
seventeen (17) years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly,
building, place, street, or highway at the following times unless accompanied
and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other responsible companion at
least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal guardian, or
unless subject to one of the defenses permitted to minors subject to curfew as
set forth in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 555/1(c):
      1.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Friday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Saturday and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. Sunday;
      3.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday inclusive and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or other person to knowingly permit
a person in his or her custody or control to violate this subsection A.
   B.   Detaining Minor: Every member of the police department, having
reasonable grounds to believe that a minor has violated the provisions of
subsection A of this section, is hereby authorized to detain any such minor
until the parent or guardian of the minor shall take him or her into custody,
but such officer, upon taking custody of the minor, shall without unnecessary
delay, communicate with the parent or guardian of said minor.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
punishable by the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code and in conformance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1 which entitle said penalty to consist of education or
public service requirements in addition to, or in lieu of, a fine. (Ord. 2011-
03, 3-8-2011)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-5-2: Dutch Elm Disease
4-5-3: Abatement Procedures
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared to be a public nuisance for any person within the limits
of the village or within its territorial jurisdiction:
   A.   Offensive Odors: To so negligently conduct any business or use any
premises as to create such an offensive smell as to taint the air and render it
unwholesome or disagreeable to the neighborhood.
   B.   Offensive Or Unwholesome Business: To establish, maintain and carry on
any offensive or unwholesome business.
   C.   Renderies, Tanneries: To locate and carry on, without having obtained
permission of the board of trustees to do so, any packing house, renderers,
tallow chandlers, glue or bone factories, soap factory or tannery.
   D.   Breweries And Distilleries: To locate in the village, without first
having obtained permission of the board of trustees to do so, any brewery or
distillery.
   E.   Slaughterhouses: To slaughter or kill any meat, cattle, hogs or sheep,
or keep, maintain or use therein for any house or place in which the business
of slaughtering any of said animals may be carried on in the village without a
permit to do so from the board of trustees.
   F.   Foul Substances: To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or
vegetable matters, slop, swill, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings or offal
or noisome substances of any kind to be collected, deposited or to remain in
any place in the village to the prejudice of others.
   G.   Offensive Premises: To keep, or suffer to be kept, in a foul,
offensive, nauseous or filthy condition any chicken coop, stable, cellar,
drain, pool, toilet, sewer or sink, upon any premises belonging to or occupied
by a person, or any railroad car, building, yard, grounds, and premises
belonging to or occupied by a person.
   H.   Privies: To erect or maintain any privy within the village 1 .
   I.   Cellars, Sewers And Drains: To suffer or permit any cellar, vault,
private drain, pool, sewer or sink upon any premises belonging to or occupied
by a person to become nauseous, foul, offensive or injurious to the public
health. (1999 Code § 18.01)
   J.   Offensive Matter In Watercourses: To throw or deposit, or cause to be
thrown or deposited, any offal or any offensive matter, or the carcass of any
animal, or any dirt, filth, rubbish, waste, stone, material, thing or property
of any kind in any watercourse, pond, spring or well on any land. For the
purpose of this section, "watercourse" shall mean a manmade or natural channel
in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently. (Ord.
2004-21, 8-10-2004)
   K.   Polluting Water Supply: To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the
water of any drinking hydrant, spring, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or
prejudice of others.
   L.   Depositing Offensive Substances In Public Ways Or On Property: To
deposit any night soil, dead animal or other filthy, offensive or noisome
substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park or other place.
   M.   Railroad Cars, Stockyards: To own, keep or use any railroad car, yard,
place or premises in or upon which cattle, swine or sheep shall be confined or
kept.
   N.   Mosquito Breeding Places: To keep or suffer any low lying swampy land
with poor drainage or artificially impounding and retaining of water until it
becomes stagnant so as to be susceptible to becoming a mosquito breeding place.
(1999 Code § 18.01; amd. 2005 Code)
   O.   Weeds: To permit the growth upon any premises in the village of any
noxious weeds, including, but not limited to, buckthorn, bull nettle, burdock,
Canada thistle, cocklebur, curled dock, dodders, field bindweed, giant foxtail,
hoary cress, Jimson weed, Johnson grass, leafy spurge, ox-eye daisy, perennial
sow thistle, quack grass, ragweed, Russian knapweed, sweet clover, wild carrot,
wild garlic, wild mustard or like weeds; or to permit any weeds, grasses or
plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants, to grow
to a height exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the village, or to permit
any premises to become grown up with weeds and brush so that the same becomes
injurious to the health of the community. (Ord. 2015-12, 10-13-2015)
   P.   Certain Trees: To plant or permit the growth of cottonwood trees or box
elder trees upon any premises to the injury or prejudice of others.
   Q.   Storage Of Junk: For the owner, occupant or the agent of any owner or
occupant of real property within the village to deposit, store or abandon junk,
trash and refuse on private or public property within the village where such
storage is not specifically authorized under the provisions of the zoning
regulations of the village. "Junk, trash and refuse" are defined herein to
include any and all waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive
to the public health, safety or to the aesthetics of the neighborhood and which
may become stagnant or foul or be a possible harborage for rats, snakes and
other vermin and is specifically intended to include, but not be limited to,
paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, cans, containers, debris, old lumber,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials, old
refrigerators, stoves, freezers, upholstered furniture, tractors, machinery of
any kind, inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles and a motor vehicle not
currently licensed by the state of Illinois or other state or country, exposed
to the view of the general public and not either enclosed in a building or
structure, or located on the sales lot of a licensed automobile dealer.
   R.   Smoke: To allow or permit any dense smoke to come or be emitted from
any chimney or engine within the village.
   S.   Excessive Illumination: To permit any lighting within any property that
unnecessarily illuminates any other property and substantially interferes with
the use or enjoyment of such other property. In furtherance of this
requirement, all lighting on private property shall be so arranged or designed
using cutoff lenses as to direct light away from adjoining premises and
streets. Flood and spot lights shall be shielded when necessary to prevent
glare on adjoining properties or public rights of way and to avoid visual
interference with traffic control devices. Detailed lighting design plans and
calculations shall be provided when deemed necessary by the superintendent of
public works.
   T.   Dangerous Conditions: To cause, permit or maintain any other act or
condition which is injurious or dangerous to the public health, or which causes
injury, annoyance or inconvenience to the public.
   U.   Liquor: To sell directly or indirectly, or keep for sale, or give away
in any place in the village, intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed or fermented
liquors, or other like drinks, in any quantity whatever, unless the same shall
be kept, sold or given away under a permit or license duly granted by the
village 2 .
   V.   Encroaching Upon Highways And Streets: To construct or encroach upon
public highways, private ways, streets, alleys or commons 3 .
   W.   Cemeteries: To establish a cemetery within the corporate limits of the
village or within one mile of the limits thereof, without first having obtained
permission to do so by ordinance of the board of trustees.
   X.   House Of Prostitution: To conduct or carry on any house of ill fame or
assignation where men and women resort for the purpose of prostitution or
lewdness.
   Y.   Statutory Nuisances: To cause or maintain any nuisance defined as such
by the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1999 Code § 18.01; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  7-3-2C of this code.
2 1. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
3 2. See also section
  6-1-5 of this code.
4-5-2: DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: No person owning real estate within the village
shall permit to grow thereon or remain thereon any elm tree infected with Dutch
elm disease, and to do so is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   B.   Removal Required: The owner of any premises within the village upon
which there is an elm tree infected with Dutch elm disease shall remove the
same immediately upon discovering it, by cutting the same down. The tree so cut
down, together with all its limbs, shall be cut into lengths not to exceed four
feet (4') and placed upon the parkway in the street to be removed by the
village. Upon so cutting the trees and placing them upon the parkway, the owner
of said property shall notify the village public works superintendent in order
that the same may be removed by the village. (1999 Code § 18.02)
4-5-3: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Notice To Abate: It is hereby made the duty of the village chief of
police or his designee to serve a notice in writing upon the owner, agent,
occupant or person in possession, charge or control of any lot, building or
premises in or upon which any nuisance may be found requiring him to abate the
same within a time specified in such manner as the chief of police or his
designee shall prescribe. It shall not be necessary in any case to specify in
what manner the nuisance shall be abated.
      2.   Failure To Abate; Summary Abatement: If the person so notified shall
refuse or neglect to comply with such order within the time and manner
specified, the chief of police or his designee shall cause the summary
abatement of such nuisance at the expense of the person responsible for the
same.
   B.   Abatement Of Inoperable Motor Vehicles: With regard to the nuisance
posed by inoperable motor vehicles on public or private property and in view of
the general public, abatement procedures shall conform with the provisions of
section 11-40-3 of the Illinois municipal code 1 , as follows:
      1.   Definition: An "inoperable motor vehicle" is defined as any motor
vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels
or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or other parts
have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is
incapable of being driven under its own motor power. "Inoperable motor vehicle"
shall not include a motor vehicle capable of being driven under its own motor
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations; or any motor
vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use; or to an operable
historic vehicle twenty five (25) years of age; or to a motor vehicle on the
premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor
vehicles.
      2.   Removal By Village: The chief of police or his designee may remove,
after seven (7) days from the issuance of a written notice, any inoperable
motor vehicle or parts thereof.
   C.   Costs Of Abatement: Following the village sponsored cutting of weeds or
the abatement of "nuisances" as defined by this chapter, the village attorney
or his designee shall: (1999 Code § 18.03)
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of the date that said abatement occurred,
send a bill which shall reflect the actual cost of abating the nuisance plus a
fine in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) with a minimum billing of no less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), to the property owner, his agent,
legal representative, or occupant in legal possession or control of the
premises, or in the case of inoperable vehicles, the person named on the
certificate of title. If said bill is not paid within sixty (60) days of the
date of said bill, the village attorney or his designee may bring suit to
collect the amount due or may prepare and record a notice of lien in the amount
of the actual costs of abating the nuisance plus a fine in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) with a minimum billing of no less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) in conformance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-
6 and 5/11-20-7; (Ord. 2015-12, 10-13-2015)
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the date that said village sponsored
abatement is completed, send a bill for the cost of the abatement, any failure
to comply penalty(ies) associated with said abatement, and an additional
penalty in the amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to the property
owner, his agent, legal representative or occupant in legal possession or
control of the premises. If said bill is paid in full within thirty (30) days
of the date of said bill, the additional penalty of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) shall be reduced to seventy five dollars ($75.00); or
      3.   Within sixty (60) days after the date of a weed, vehicle or notice
abatement, prepare and record a notice of lien in the amount of the cost,
expenses incurred and all applicable fines or penalties associated with said
abatement in conformance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-
20-7. (1999 Code § 18.03)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter by creating,
maintaining or causing to be created or maintained a nuisance, shall be fined
as provided in section
 1-4-1 of this code for each offense in addition to paying for any abatement
expenses. Each day or portion thereof for which any nuisance is continued,
maintained or suffered to be continued or maintained by the person creating,
causing or suffering the same to be created or maintained, after reasonable
notice to abate the same, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(1999 Code § 18.05; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 6
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Discharge Of Fireworks; Permits
4-6-3: Application; Form
4-6-4: Conduct Of Display
4-6-5: Qualifications Of Operators
4-6-6: Nitroglycerin; TNT
4-6-7: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
   CHIEF OR FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the Waterman fire department or his duly
authorized representative.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Waterman fire department.
   FIREWORKS: Shall mean and include any combustible or explosive composition,
or any substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the
purpose of producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion,
deflagration or detonation, and shall include toy guns in which explosives are
used, the type of unmanned balloons which require fire underneath to propel the
same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs,
sparklers or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks containing
any explosive substance, except that the term "fireworks" shall not include
model rockets and model rocket engines, designed, sold and used for the purpose
of propelling recoverable aeromodels and shall not include toy pistols, toy
canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper caps manufactured in accordance
with the United States department of transportation regulations for packing and
shipping of toy paper caps are used; and toy paper caps manufactured as
provided aforesaid, the sale and use of which toys and caps shall be permitted
at all times.
   PERMITTEE: Shall mean and include any person, firm or corporation and/or
agent or employee of such person, firm or corporation who has been issued a
permit for supervised displays of fireworks in the village of Waterman under
the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-2009)
4-6-2: DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS; PERMITS:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, copartnership or
corporation shall offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, keep with
intent to sell at retail, use or explode any fireworks, provided that the
village may issue permits for supervised displays of fireworks in the village
by fair associations, shopping centers and other organizations or groups of
individuals.
      1.   Such permits may be granted upon application to said village after
his approval based upon regulations contained herein, and the filing of a bond
by the applicant as provided hereinafter.
      2.   Every such display shall be handled by a competent operator, and
shall be of such composition, character and so located, discharged or fired as
in the opinion of the village shall not constitute a hazard to property or
endanger any person or persons.
   B.   Pursuant to such permit having been granted, possession, use and
distribution of fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that purpose
only; and no permit granted hereunder shall be transferable.
   C.   The village shall seize, take, remove or cause to be removed at the
expense of the owner all stocks of fireworks or combustibles offered or exposed
for sale, stored or held in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-
2009)
4-6-3: APPLICATION; FORM:
   A.   Application for permit to operate a display of fireworks in conformance
with the terms of this chapter shall be made in writing on forms provided by
the village of Waterman.
   B.   Such application shall set forth:
      1.   The name of the organization sponsoring the display, together with
the names of persons actually in charge of the firing of the display.
      2.   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      3.   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held.
      4.   The exact location planned for the display.
      5.   A description setting forth the age, experience and physical
characteristics of the persons who are to do the actual discharging of the
fireworks.
      6.   The number and kinds of fireworks to be discharged.
      7.   The manner and place of storage of such fireworks prior to the
display.
      8.   A diagram of the grounds on which the display is to be held showing
the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged, the location of all
buildings, highways and other lines of communication, the lines behind which
the audience will be restrained, and the location of all nearby trees,
telegraph or telephone lines or other overhead obstructions. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-
11-2009)
4-6-4: CONDUCT OF DISPLAY:
   A.   No permit shall be granted for any display of fireworks where the
discharge, failure to fire, faulty firing or fallout of any fireworks or other
objects would endanger persons, buildings, structures, forests or brush, nor in
any case where the point at which the fireworks are to be fired is less than
two hundred feet (200') from the nearest permanent building, public highway,
railroad or other means of travel or fifty feet (50') from the nearest
aboveground telephone or telegraph line, tree or other overhead obstruction.
      1.   All physical arrangements for firing and storage must be approved by
the fire chief.
      2.   In no case shall a display be fired within five hundred feet (500')
of a school, church, hospital or similar institution.
   B.   Spectators at a display of fireworks shall be restrained behind lines
or barriers as designated by the fire department, but in no case less than two
hundred feet (200') from the point at which the fireworks are to be discharged.
Only authorized persons and those in actual charge of the display shall be
allowed inside these lines or barriers during the unloading, preparation or
firing of fireworks.
   C.   All fireworks that fire a projectile shall be so set up that the
projectile will go into the air as nearly as possible in a vertical direction,
provided that they may be directed in such a manner that the falling residue
from the deflagration will fall into a lake or other large body of water where
such fireworks are to be fired beside the said body of water. Furthermore, no
firing tube or tubes shall be utilized in rapid succession or in any other
manner so as to cause overheating or instability of such tube or tubes.
   D.   No fireworks display shall be held during any windstorm in which the
wind reaches a velocity of more than twenty (20) miles per hour.
   E.   All fireworks articles and items at places of display shall be stored
in a manner and in a place secure from fire, accidental discharge and theft and
in a manner approved by the fire chief.
   F.   Fire protection and extinguishing equipment shall be provided as
required by the fireworks act.
   G.   The person to whom a permit has been issued shall arrange for the
detailing of a fire guard consisting of one member of the fire department or
such larger number of members as may be deemed necessary by the fire chief.
      1.   The fire chief may require such fire guard to be at the site as soon
as the fireworks are delivered to the site and such fire guard may be required
to remain at such site by the said fire chief until after the conclusion of the
display and removal of all remaining fireworks and/or debris from the said
site.
      2.   The expense for such fire guard shall be paid by the permittee.
   H.   There shall be at all times no fewer than two (2) operators of the
display constantly on duty during the discharge.
   I.   Any fireworks that remain unfired after the display is concluded shall
be immediately disposed of or removed in a manner which is safe for the
particular type of fireworks.
      1.   The debris from the discharged fireworks shall be properly disposed
of by the operator before he leaves the premises.
      2.   The operator, upon the conclusion of the display, shall make a
complete and thorough search for any unfired fireworks or pieces which have
failed to fire or function and shall dispose of them in a safe manner.
      3.   Such search shall be instituted at the earliest possible time
following the conclusion of the display, but in no event later than the first
two (2) hours of daylight which follow.
   J.   Upon failure of a permittee to comply with any regulation contained in
this section, the fire chief and/or the fire guard at the scene are hereby
authorized to seize, take, remove or cause to be removed all or any stock of
fireworks or combustibles and/or to terminate any display upon observing such
violation. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-2009)
4-6-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF OPERATORS:
The village may issue a fireworks display permit to any adult applicant that
meets the following minimum requirements:
   A.   The applicant must submit a written application for a permit at least
fifteen (15) days in advance of the date of the pyrotechnic display;
   B.   The pyrotechnic display service is provided by a licensed pyrotechnic
distributor, and the display is conducted by a licensed lead pyrotechnic
operator;
   C.   The applicant must show proof of liability insurance in a sum not less
than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) with an insurance company authorized
to do business in Illinois;
   D.   The fire chief of the local jurisdiction or his/her designee must
inspect the display site and ensure the display can be performed in full
compliance with the NFPA standards adopted and amended by the OSFM rules, part
235, for the type of pyrotechnic display to be performed; and
   E.   The chief of the fire department providing fire protection must sign
the display permit. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-2009)
4-6-6: NITROGLYCERIN; TNT:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerin or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the village in any quantities, excepting for medicinal
or laboratory purposes and for such purpose no more than one-fourth (1/4) of a
pound shall be stored in any one building or premises. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-
2009)
4-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon a finding of guilty shall be punished by a fine as set
forth in section
1-4-1 of this code; and each day such violation continues or occurs shall be
deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 2009-07, 8-11-2009)
CHAPTER 7
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Burning Of Leaves Or Garden Debris Prohibited
4-7-3: Recreational Fires In A Portable Outdoor Fireplace
4-7-4: Recreational Fires In A Fire Pit Or On The Ground
4-7-5: Extinguishment Ordered By Fire Official
4-7-6: Penalty
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
   RECREATIONAL FIRES: Recreational fires are considered small fires for the
purpose of enhancing social interaction, and for religious, ceremonial,
cooking, warmth, or similar purposes. There are two (2) types of recreational
fires: those in outdoor fireplaces, and fire pit or ground fires. (Ord. 2012-
26, 12-11-2012)
4-7-2: BURNING OF LEAVES OR GARDEN DEBRIS PROHIBITED:
The burning of leaves, lawn rakings and landscape waste is prohibited. (Ord.
2012-26, 12-11-2012)
4-7-3: RECREATIONAL FIRES IN A PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE:
   A.   An outdoor fireplace is a commercially produced chamber, enclosure, or
screened enclosure, portable in design, for the purpose of containing a
recreational fire of two feet (2') or less in diameter and two feet (2') or
less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth, or similar
purposes.
   B.   Recreational fires in a container such as an outdoor fireplace do not
require a permit. Recreational fires in an outdoor fireplace shall be at least
fifteen feet (15') from any structure or at least three feet (3') for LP/gas
fireplaces. All recreational fires shall be at least fifteen feet (15') from
all lot lines. All fireplaces should have a non-combustible base. Fuel used for
recreational fires shall be seasoned dry firewood, LP, gas or charcoal only.
The fire must be entirely contained within the outdoor fireplace. The fire
shall be attended at all times. A portable fire extinguisher of at least a 4-
A rating, or other approved on site fire extinguishing equipment such as dirt,
sand, or a garden hose shall be readily available. Recreational fires may be
extinguished by the Fire Department if the fire is deemed a health or safety
hazard. (Ord. 2019-04, 6-11-2019)
4-7-4: RECREATIONAL FIRES IN A FIRE PIT OR ON THE GROUND:
   A.   A fire pit should generally be at least four inches (4") in depth and
shall be surrounded on the outside, aboveground, by noncombustible materials
such as stone, steel, brick, or masonry. Recreational fires in a fire pit or on
the ground do not require a permit.
   B.   The fire pit cannot exceed three feet (3') in diameter, nor may the
fire pile exceed two feet (2') in height. A fire on the ground should be
contained with rocks or noncombustible screening to contain the fuel within a
dedicated space. Recreational fires in a fire pit or on the ground shall be at
least twenty five feet (25') from any structure or combustible material. All
recreational fires shall be at least fifteen feet (15') from all lot lines. A
fire should not be started in a fire pit or on the ground when very dry
conditions due to exceptionally dry weather are present. In addition,
conditions (such as dry grass or other combustible material) which could cause
a fire to spread within twenty five feet (25') of a structure shall be
eliminated prior to ignition. The fire size shall not be greater than three
feet (3') in diameter and two feet (2') in height. Fuel used for recreational
fires shall be dry firewood or charcoal only. The fire shall be attended at all
times. A portable fire extinguisher of at least a 4-A rating or other approved
on site fire extinguishing equipment such as dirt, sand, or a garden hose shall
be readily available. Recreational fires may be extinguished by the Fire
Department if the fire is deemed a health or safety hazard. (Ord. 2019-04, 6-
11-2019)
4-7-5: EXTINGUISHMENT ORDERED BY FIRE OFFICIAL:
When, in the opinion of a fire official, a hazard exists due to open burning
that is not conducted within safe parameters, the fire official, using good
sound judgment and in consideration of the conditions that could present a
hazard due to the use of the open fire, shall have the authority to have the
fire extinguished. (Ord. 2012-26, 12-11-2012)
4-7-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2012-26, 12-11-2012)
CHAPTER 8
MEDICAL CANNABIS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Rules And Definitions
4-8-2: Medical Cannabis; Cultivation Centers
4-8-3: Medical Cannabis; Dispensing Centers
4-8-1: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   CULTIVATION CENTER: Has the meaning set forth in section 10 of the Illinois
compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 130/10, effective January 1, 2014, as may be amended from time to
time.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: Has the meaning set forth in
section 10 of the Illinois compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program
act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/10, effective January 1, 2014, as may
be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2014-04, 8-12-2014)
4-8-2: MEDICAL CANNABIS; CULTIVATION CENTERS:
Cultivation centers, subject to all applicable standards as provided for in
section
 9-13-4-1, "Medical Cannabis", of this code:
   A.   A cultivation center may not be located within two thousand five
hundred feet (2,500') of the property line of a preexisting public or private
preschool or elementary or secondary school or daycare center, daycare home,
group daycare home, part day childcare facility, or area zoned for residential
use.
   B.   A cultivation center may not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the property line of a preexisting cultivation center or medical
cannabis dispensing organization.
   C.   Cultivation centers must be constructed, maintained, and operated in
strict compliance with all applicable state statutes and regulations.
   D.   Cultivation centers are subject to special use provisions as provided
in the zoning ordinance of this code. (Ord. 2014-04, 8-12-2014)
4-8-3: MEDICAL CANNABIS; DISPENSING CENTERS:
Medical cannabis dispensing organizations, subject to all applicable standards
as provided for in section
9-13-4-1, "Medical Cannabis", of this code:
   A.   A medical cannabis dispensing organization may not be located within
one thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of a preexisting public or
private preschool or elementary or secondary school or daycare center, daycare
home, group daycare home, or part day childcare facility.
   B.   A medical cannabis dispensing organization may not be located in a
house, apartment, or condominium.
   C.   A medical cannabis dispensing organization may not permit any person to
consume cannabis on the property of a medical cannabis dispensing organization.
   D.   A medical cannabis dispensing organization may not share office space
with or refer patients to a physician.
   E.   No drive-through facility may be constructed or operated in conjunction
with any medical cannabis dispensing organization.
   F.   No medical cannabis dispensing organization may be open for business
before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. on any day.
   G.   A sufficient number of parking spaces for the medical cannabis
dispensing organization must be provided in compliance with the zoning
ordinance within this code. Additionally, the parking provided for a medical
cannabis dispensing organization must be reserved for the exclusive use of
dispensing organization employees and patrons, and may not be shared with other
businesses.
   H.   Dispensing centers must be constructed, maintained, and operated in
strict compliance with all applicable state statutes and regulations.
   I.   Dispensing centers are subject to special use provisions as provided in
the zoning ordinance of this code. (Ord. 2014-04, 8-12-2014)
CHAPTER 9
CANNABIS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Offense Of Possession Of Cannabis
4-9-3: Violations, Penalties
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
All terms and phrases used herein shall have the same meaning as ascribed to
them in the cannabis control act 1 ; except the term "person" is limited to
natural persons who have attained the age of eighteen (18) years or more. (Ord.
2016-05, 10-11-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 550/1 et seq.
4-9-2: OFFENSE OF POSSESSION OF CANNABIS:
A person commits the offense of possession of cannabis within the village by
knowingly possessing ten grams (10 g) or less of any substance containing
cannabis unless permitted or authorized to do so pursuant to relevant state
law. (Ord. 2016-05, 10-11-2016)
4-9-3: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
by a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of two
hundred dollars ($200.00). In addition to any penalty herein, all court costs
authorized by ordinance or statute for ordinance violations from time to time
shall be imposed. These costs include, but are not limited to, circuit clerk
automation, state's attorney automation, document storage, clerk fee, court
fee, judicial security, youth diversion, drug court, state's attorney fee, and
e-citation fee.
   B.   Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the
possession of cannabis in violation of this chapter shall be subject to seizure
and impoundment pursuant to section
5-6-4 of this code. (Ord. 2016-05, 10-11-2016)
CHAPTER 10
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Offense Of Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
4-10-3: Violations, Penalties
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All items, equipment, products, and materials of any
kind which may be used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body cannabis or a controlled substance as defined
by relevant Illinois state laws. It includes, but is not limited to, pipes,
bongs, rolling papers, and any other item converted for the uses set forth
above. (Ord. 2016-05, 10-11-2016)
4-10-2: OFFENSE OF POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
A person commits the offense of possession of drug paraphernalia within the
village by knowingly possessing an item of drug paraphernalia unless permitted
or authorized to do so pursuant to relevant Illinois state law. (Ord. 2016-05,
10-11-2016)
4-10-3: VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable
by the general penalty provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition to any general penalty herein, all court costs
authorized by ordinance or statute for ordinance violations from time to time
shall be imposed. These costs include, but are not limited to, circuit clerk
automation, state's attorney automation, document storage, clerk fee, court
fee, judicial security, youth diversion, drug court, state's attorney fee, and
e-citation fee.
   B.   Any motor vehicle which is used in any manner to facilitate the
possession of drug paraphernalia in violation of this chapter shall be subject
to seizure and impoundment pursuant to section 5-6-4 of this code. (Ord. 2016-
05, 10-11-2016)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Traffic Code; General Provisions   1
Parking Regulations   2
Traffic Schedules   3
Vehicle Equipment And Condition; Trucks And Loads   4
Snowmobiles   5
Administration And Enforcement   6
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Application Of Provisions
5-1-4: Processions
5-1-5: Operating Vehicles In A Noisy Manner
5-1-6: Toy Vehicles
5-1-7: All Terrain Vehicles; Off Highway Motorcycles
5-1-8: Riding Lawn Mowers
5-1-9: Operation Of Golf Carts And Non-Highway Vehicles On Village Streets
5-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
The Illinois Vehicle Code 1  is hereby adopted by reference. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to adopt or prohibit conduct declared by State law
to be a felony. Three (3) copies of the Illinois Vehicle Code are on file in
the Office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection. (1999 Code §
17.01; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this title, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. The definitions in the Illinois Vehicle Code 1
also apply to this title:
   LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   POLICE OR POLICE OFFICERS: All members of the regularly constituted Police
Department, special police, auxiliary police and Marshals duly constituted and
appointed by proper authorities of the Village.
   PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots
or property abutting thereon.
   PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the Village, the County, any park
district, school district, the State or the United States government. (1999
Code § 17.01)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
5-1-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Public Officers And Employees: The provisions of this title applicable
to the drivers of vehicles upon the highways shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this State or any county,
city, town, district or any other political subdivision of the State, except as
provided in this section and subject to such specific exceptions as set forth
in this title with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
   B.   Authorized Emergency Vehicle:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this subsection, but subject to the
conditions herein stated. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title.
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be required and necessary for safe operation.
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property.
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      2.   The exceptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle,
other than a police vehicle, shall apply only when the vehicle is making use of
either an audible signal when in motion or visual signals meeting the
requirements of section 12-215 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 .
      3.   The foregoing provisions do not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty of driving with due regard for the safety of
all persons, nor do such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   C.   Public Works: Unless specifically made applicable, the provisions of
this title shall not apply to persons, motor vehicles and equipment while
actually engaged in work upon a highway, but shall apply to such persons and
vehicles when traveling to or from such work. (1999 Code § 17.01)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-215.
5-1-4: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Processions: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between
the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are
in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required by
law.
   B.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as practical and safe. (1999 Code §
17.03)
5-1-5: OPERATING VEHICLES IN A NOISY MANNER:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause or produce
unnecessary loud, raucous, excessive or unusual noise by the racing of the
motor or by tire friction upon rapid turning or weaving, by spinning of the
wheels produced by sudden unnecessary motor acceleration from a standing or
slow moving position, or by continuous unnecessary sounding of a horn or other
signal device. Use of engine braking within the corporate limits of the Village
is prohibited except for the aversion of immediate and imminent danger. Any
person who violates this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2004-20, 8-10-
2004; amd. Ord. 2006-05, 4-11-2006)
5-1-6: TOY VEHICLES:
   A.   Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person on any street
riding any bicycle, motorcycle, sled, skateboard or other vehicle to cling to
or attach himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon. (1999
Code § 17.03)
   B.   Operation On Roadways; Use Of Crosswalks Required: It shall be unlawful
for any person upon roller skates, rollerblades, skateboards, a coaster, sled
or other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
   C.   Prohibited Operation On Specific Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle, skateboard,
rollerblade or roller skate upon any sidewalk that is parallel or adjacent to
Route 30 between Elm Street and Birch Street, or on Cedar Street between Route
30 and Alley A (George Cies Alley). (1999 Code § 15.03; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Any person violating this subsection C shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. Additionally, any juvenile who is found to be in violation of
this subsection C may be issued a warning citation, and any bicycle,
skateboard, rollerblades, or roller skates or other play vehicle utilized in
the commission of the violation of this subsection C may be impounded by the
Village Police Department. Such item shall be released to the juvenile only
when accompanied to the Village Police Department by a parent or guardian who
shall be presented at such time with a copy of this subsection C.
      3.   Any parent or guardian who knowingly allows a juvenile to utilize a
bicycle, skateboard, rollerblades, roller skates or other such play vehicle in
violation of this subsection C shall himself or herself be considered a
violator of this subsection C and shall be fined, upon conviction thereof, not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each offense.
      4.   A presumption is hereby created that if a parent or guardian has
been previously presented with a copy of this subsection C in relation to a
first or second offense of a juvenile, that said parent or guardian knowingly
allowed the juvenile to use the vehicle in a prohibited manner. (1999 Code §
15.03)
5-1-7: ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES; OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES:
No person may operate an all terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle within
the Village limits. This section shall not prohibit the transport of such all
terrain vehicle or off highway motorcycle by trailer or other means within or
across the Village limits to an area outside the Village limits. (1999 Code §
17.07)
5-1-8: RIDING LAWN MOWERS:
No person shall operate a riding lawn mower on a Village street except to make
a direct crossing thereof for the express purpose of mowing a lawn after
yielding to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic. (1999 Code § 17.08)
5-1-9: OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS:
   A.   Definitions:
      GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes
of transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance
equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf,
or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
      HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
      NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle not specifically designed to be used
on a public street, including all-terrain vehicles, golf carts, off highway
motorcycles and recreational off highway vehicles.
      OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE: Any motorized device designed to travel primarily
off highway on two (2) wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator, upon or by which any person, persons or property may be transported
or drawn.
      RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device
designed to travel primarily off highway, sixty-four inches (64") or less in
width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or
less, traveling on four (4) or more Non-highway tires, designed with a non-
straddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such
as lawn mowers.
      ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
      STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
   B.   Authorization of Certain Non-Highway Vehicles:
      1.   Golf carts and recreational off highway vehicles in compliance with
this chapter are hereby authorized to operate on Village streets.
      2.   All-terrain vehicles are prohibited from operation on Village
streets, except as may be temporarily authorized as per subsections
5-1-7 of this code.
      3.   Off highway motorcycles are prohibited from operation on Village
streets, except as may be temporarily authorized as per subsections
5-1-7 of this code.
      4.   The operation on Village streets of any non-highway or similar type
vehicle not specifically addressed in this chapter, which is not designed or
manufactured to be used on public streets, shall be prohibited and any such
operation found to be in violation of state laws shall be punishable in
accordance with applicable laws of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: Those Golf carts and recreational off highway
vehicles authorized under section
5-1-9B of this chapter may be operated on streets within the Village, but only
in strict compliance with the following rules and regulations:
      1.   Any person who operates a Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway
Vehicle in the Village takes full responsibility for all liability associated
with operating the non-highway vehicle.
      2.   Any person who operates a Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway
Vehicle must be at least sixteen (16) years of age and possess a valid driver's
license.
      3.   Any person who operates a Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway
Vehicle must possess proof of liability insurance for personal injury and
property damage with limits of liability not less than the minimum required by
the state of Illinois for passenger vehicles pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/7-203. Evidence of insurance, in the form of an insurance card as
prescribed in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-602 must be surrendered to any
officer of the Village police department or any other law enforcement agency
for inspection upon request. Any person who fails to comply with a request by a
law enforcement officer for display of evidence of insurance as required under
this code, and Section 7-602 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, shall be deemed to
be operating an uninsured vehicle.
      4.   A Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicle shall always
have its headlight and taillamps lighted when operated on Village streets as
required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-201.
      5.   Golf Carts and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicles may not be
operated when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other
conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons and vehicles on the street at a distance of five hundred feet (500').
Village police officers shall have sole discretion in determining whether
weather, smoke, fog, or insufficient lighting conditions exist.
      6.   Golf Carts and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicles may not be
operated on any streets or highways within the corporate limits of the Village
which have a posted speed limit of more than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
This section does not prohibit Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway
Vehicle from crossing a street at the intersection where the street has a
posted speed limit of more than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
      7.   Golf Carts and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicles may not be
operated on Village streets at a speed greater than twenty-five (25) miles per
hour.
      8.   Golf Carts and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicles must be equipped
with a horn, brakes, a steering apparatus, a rearview mirror, a headlight that
emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to the
front in daylight, a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least one
hundred feet (100') from the rear in daylight, brake lights, and turn signals.
      9.   Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a Golf
Carts or Non-highway vehicle within the Village must adhere to all applicable
laws of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
      10.   Golf Cart and Non-highway vehicle drivers must yield the right of
way to overtaking vehicles at all times.
      11.   The maximum occupancy of Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles
traveling on Village streets will be one person per bucket seat and not more
than two (2) persons per bench seat, except in cases of a bona fide emergency.
      12.   All persons operating and riding in Golf Carts or Non-highway
vehicles must be properly seated while the Golf Cart or Non-highway vehicle is
in motion.
      13.   All persons operating and riding in Golf Carts and Non-highway
vehicles not equipped with a full windshield shall be required to wear
protective eyewear at all times while the Golf Cart Non-highway vehicle is in
motion.
      14.   Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles shall not park in handicapped
parking spaces unless the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicap
parking permit issued by the Illinois Secretary of State.
      15.   Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles may not be operated on
sidewalks or other public or private property not accessible to or authorized
to vehicular traffic, except in the case of a bona-fide emergency or as
otherwise permitted in this code.
      16.    Non-highway vehicles require an operating speedometer installed on
the vehicle.
   D.   Inspection and Non-Highway Vehicle License:
      1.   All Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles operated on the streets must
be inspected initially by the Chief of police of the Village or his/her
designee. All persons operating Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles on the
streets shall submit to the Village Clerk or his/her designee a completed Golf
Cart Permit Application, a copy of a valid driver's license, proof of
insurance, and a signed Golf Cart Waiver of Liability for inspection, along
with an application fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) payable to the Village; said
fee may be increased (or decreased) over time as determined by the Village. All
Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles shall have at a minimum, the equipment
required per subsection C of this chapter.
      2.   Golf Carts and Non-highway Vehicle License: All Golf Carts and Non-
highway vehicles operated on the streets must display, in a manner as
prescribed by the Chief of police of the Village, a valid Village Golf Cart and
Non-highway vehicle license issued by the Chief of police of the Village or
his/her designee after successfully passing inspection. The Golf Cart and Non-
highway vehicle license shall be valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance of a Golf Cart and Non-highway vehicle license. Golf Cart
and Non-highway vehicle licenses shall not be transferable to any other person
or Golf Cart and Non-highway vehicle.
      3.   Golf Carts and Non-Highway Vehicle License Annual Renewal: All Golf
Carts and Non-highway vehicles operated on the streets will be required to
submit to the Village Clerk or his/her designee a completed Golf Cart Permit
Renewal Application, a copy of a valid driver's license, proof of insurance,
and a signed Golf Cart Waiver of Liability for inspection as prescribed by the
police department, along with an application fee of thirty dollars ($30.00)
payable to the Village; said fee may be increased (or decreased) over time as
determined by the Village. Renewal licenses shall be valid for a period of one
calendar year from the date of issuance.
   E.   Temporary Special Event License: The Village or his/her designee is
hereby authorized to issue temporary special event licenses for the use of Golf
Carts and Non-highway vehicles on Village streets, for a period not to exceed
seven (7) days, to persons participating in auctions, carnivals, car shows,
swap meets, festivals or any other event similar in nature. Such temporary
special event licenses shall only be issued after receipt of an application and
payment of a five dollar ($5.00) per day fee, payable to the Village for each
Golf Cart and Non-highway vehicle. All Golf Carts and Non-highway vehicles
granted a temporary special event license shall be exempt from the minimum
equipment requirements per subsection C of this chapter and shall be exempt
from inspection as required per subsection D of this chapter. Golf Carts and
Non-highway vehicles granted a temporary special event license shall display,
in a manner as prescribed by the Village, said temporary special event license
issued by the Village or his/her designee. Temporary special event Golf Carts
and Non-highway vehicle licenses shall not be transferable to any other person
or Golf Cart and Non-highway vehicle.
   F.   Exemptions:
      1.   Officers of the Village police department or other law enforcement
agencies, firemen, emergency medical personnel, members of an emergency
management and disaster agency, the county health department, the county animal
control, or any other bona fide public safety agency, and the Village
maintenance department shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
while operating any Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicle on
Village streets in the performance of their official duties.
      2.   The operation of all-terrain vehicles on Village streets by persons
participating in auctions, carnivals, car shows, swap meets or any other event
similar in nature, shall only be permitted on a temporary basis, and only after
being licensed per section D of this chapter.
      3.   The temporary operation of any Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off
Highway Vehicle not otherwise authorized, properly equipped and licensed per
this chapter, by persons participating in parades, is hereby authorized. Such
operation shall be directly from the place of storage of said vehicle to the
starting location of the parade, along the parade route while said parade is in
motion, and directly from the ending location of the parade back to the place
of storage of said vehicle.
   G.   Enforcement And Penalty:
      1.   Local Rules And Regulations: Any act constituting a violation of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements is deemed a
petty offense and shall be punishable in accordance with section 1-4-1 of this
code, except;
         a.   A violation of section C3 shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         b.   A violation of section C7 shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         c.   A violation of section C8 shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than sixty-five dollars ($65.00).
         d.   A violation of section C14 shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $250.00.
         e.   A violation of section D2 shall be punishable by a fine of fifty
dollars ($50.00), and in addition the violator must comply with Section D of
this code within ten (10) business days.
      2.   State Law: Any person operating or is in actual physical control of
a Golf Cart and/or Recreational Off Highway Vehicle within the Village found to
be in violation of state laws shall be punishable in accordance with applicable
laws of the Illinois Vehicle Code, at the discretion of the Chief of police or
his/her designee.
   H.   Suspension and Revocation of License:
      1.   Golf Cart and Non-highway Vehicle licenses may be suspended by the
Village upon recommendation by the Chief of police of the Village or his/her
designee after presentation of evidence in support of such suspension, for a
time period of at least one month and not to exceed six (6) months. Suspended
Golf Cart and Non-highway Vehicle licenses shall be surrendered to the Chief of
police of the Village or his/her designee by the license holder immediately
upon receipt of notice of suspension.
      2.   Persons having their Golf Cart and Non-highway Vehicle license
suspended three (3) times within any two (2) year period may have their Golf
Cart and Non-highway Vehicle license revoked by the Village upon recommendation
of the Chief of police of the Village or his/her designee upon presentation of
evidence in support of such revocation, for a time period of at least one year
and not to exceed two (2) years. Revoked Golf Cart and Non-highway Vehicle
licenses shall be surrendered to the Chief of police of the Village or his/her
designee by the license holder immediately upon receipt of notice of
revocation.
      3.   Persons having their Golf Cart and Non-highway Vehicle license
suspended or revoked must submit a completed application for reinspection and
reinstatement of their Golf Cart and/or Non-highway Vehicle along with a thirty
dollar ($30.00) reinspection and reinstatement fee after conclusion of
suspension or revocation period.
(Ord. 2017-09, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-06, 7-12-2022; Ord. 2023-08, 8-8-2023)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
5-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
5-2-3: Handicapped Parking
5-2-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to park the same in any of
the following places except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the direction of a police officer, traffic sign or
signal:
   A.   At any intersection;
   B.   In a crosswalk;
   C.   Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal;
   D.   Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection;
   E.   At any place where the standing of the vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18');
   F.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant; or
   G.   At any place where the standing of any vehicle will block the use of
any driveway.
   H.   At any place where official signs, whether temporary or permanent,
prohibit parking.
   I.   Parking Restrictions in Green Ridge Subdivision.
      1.   Parking within the limits of Green Ridge Subdivision of Waterman,
Illinois will be restricted to the South side of Wilson, Kennedy, Garfield, and
Taft. East side parking will be restricted to Linden, Ginko, Fir, Cherry,
Buckeye, and Ash.
      2.   Due to the need for accessibility to fire hydrants in the Green
Ridge Subdivision on the north or west side of all streets, parking is
prohibited on the north and west sides of streets respectfully.
      3.   The person parking any vehicle found illegally parked under this
subsection shall be fined according to the following fee schedule:
 
First offense                     $10.00
Second offense                    $25.00
Third offense                     $50.00
Fourth offense                    $100.00
Fifth offense and each thereafter $250.00
 
(1999 Code § 17.05; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2016-04, 8-23-2016)
5-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Unattended Vehicles: No vehicle shall be left unattended while the
motor of such vehicle is running. No vehicle shall be left without a driver on
any hill or incline unless the vehicle is secured against moving. Whenever any
police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge or causeway or in any
tunnel where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer
is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   B.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
private property without the consent of the owner of such property.
   C.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley except for the
purpose of loading and unloading merchandise, but not to exceed one hour. No
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position
as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   D.   Time Limit Parking: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on village
property for a period of time in excess of the amount of time designated by
ordinance and so posted. In the event that no time limit is posted, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle in the same location for a period in excess of
forty eight (48) hours.
   E.   Vehicles For Sale; Selling Merchandise: It shall be unlawful to park
any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for sale, or to
park any vehicle upon any street from which merchandise is peddled or sold.
(1999 Code § 17.04)
   F.   Parking In Residential Area: It shall be unlawful to park or leave
standing any motor vehicle of the second division on any street lying within
any district zoned R residential for a period of time longer than five (5)
minutes, except for the purpose of loading, unloading or the delivery of
materials, and then, in such case, for a period of time no longer than is
necessary to load, unload and deliver such materials, and in any case, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes. This subsection does not apply to motor vehicles
properly displaying A-D state license plates. (1999 Code § 17.04; amd. 2005
Code)
   G.   Inoperable Or Dismantled Vehicles: No owner or operator of any
inoperable or dismantled vehicle shall allow such vehicle to be parked on any
public street, right of way or alley within the village for more than twenty
four (24) hours.
   H.   Unapproved Surfaces: No vehicle may be parked on an unapproved surface
in any residentially zoned area. For purposes of this subsection, "unapproved
surface" shall mean an area other than a paved or graveled driveway and may
include, but not be limited to, grass surfaces.
   I.   Use Of Vehicles As Dwellings:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any lot, tract,
parcel or plot of land, whether improved or unimproved, to permit the use of
such lot, tract, parcel or plot of land by any person for the purpose of
parking on or otherwise occupying such lot, tract, parcel or plot with any
trailer, camper, truck, bus, automobile, van or other similar structure if used
as a dwelling, abode, residence, habitation or home, either temporary or
permanent; provided, however, the terms hereof shall not apply where such
parking or occupying shall not exceed one calendar day duration.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or otherwise occupy any
lot, tract, parcel or plot of land, either improved or unimproved, on any
street or alley with any trailer, truck, bus, van, camper, automobile or other
similar structure if used as a dwelling, sleeping accommodation, abode,
residence, habitation or home, either temporary or permanent; provided,
however, the terms hereof shall not apply where such parking or occupying shall
not exceed one calendar day duration.
   J.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall
receive a parking ticket and be fined ten dollars ($10.00). Such payment shall
be made at the village office or at street containers if such are provided for
this purpose. The village shall refrain from instituting prosecution of the
alleged offense if payment of said fine is made within ten (10) days from
issuance. If payment pursuant to this section is not made within said ten (10)
days, any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense. (1999 Code § 17.04)
5-2-3: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Spaces Designated: Handicapped parking stalls are designated in
subsection
5-3-4C of this title. Designated handicapped parking stalls shall be marked by
a sign clearly indicating the same.
   B.   Parking Restrictions: Only motor vehicles bearing official handicapped
license plates, issued by the state of Illinois or any other state, or a
handicapped parking decal issued by the village or any other municipality,
shall be allowed to park in stalls designated as handicapped parking stalls.
(1999 Code § 7.20)
   C.   Penalty: Any motor vehicle bearing license plates which are not
official handicapped license plates, issued by the state of Illinois or any
other state, or which does not bear a valid handicapped parking decal issued by
the village or any other municipality, and which is parked in a parking stall
designated as a handicapped parking stall, shall be subject to a fine of three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00). (Ord. 2015-10, 10-13-2015)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Through Streets And Stop Intersections
5-3-2: Yield Intersections
5-3-3: One-Way Thoroughfares
5-3-4: Parking Restrictions
5-3-5: School Speed Limits
5-3-6: Truck Routes
5-3-7: Villagewide Speed Limit
5-3-8: No U-Turn Permitted
5-3-1: THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS:
The streets and intersections described in this section are hereby designated
through streets and stop intersections. Where stop signs are erected in
accordance with this section at the entrance to the through streets and stop
intersections, the operator of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection sign
shall stop as required by law. (1999 Code §§ 7.17, 7.25A)
   A.   Through Streets: The following streets are designated through streets:
Elm Street from Duffy Road to Lincoln Highway
Lincoln Highway (1999 Code § 7.25A)
   B.   Stop Intersections: The following streets are designated stop
intersections:
Through Traffic On Stop Traffic On
Through Traffic On   Stop Traffic On
Buckeye Street at    Westbound Taft Street
Cherry Street at     Eastbound Kennedy Street
Cleveland Street at  Hickory Street
Cleveland Street at  Oak Street
Elm Street at        Adams Street
Elm Street at        Alley A
Elm Street at        Cleveland Street
Elm Street at        Cruise Lane
Elm Street at        Eisenhower Street
Elm Street at        Garfield Street
Elm Street at        Grant Street
Elm Street at        McKinley Street
Elm Street at        Monroe Street
Elm Street at        Washington Street
Garfield Street at   Ash Street
Garfield Street at   Northbound Cherry Street
Ginko Street at      Kennedy Street
Illinois Route 23 at Eastbound Garfield Street
Illinois Route 30 at Juniper Street
Illinois Route 30 at Poplar Street
Juniper Street at    Wilson Street
Kennedy Street at    Northbound Walnut Street
Lincoln Highway at   Birch Street
Lincoln Highway at   Cedar Street
Lincoln Highway at   Elm Street
Lincoln Highway at   Hickory Street
Lincoln Highway at   Pine Street
Linden Street at     Kennedy Street
Maple Street at      Monroe Street1
Monroe Street at     South Hickory Street
Pine Street at       Cleveland Street
Pine Street at       Fuller Drive
Pine Street at       Grant Street
Pine Street at       McKinley Street
Poplar Street at     Wilson Street
South Maple at       Monroe Street
Walnut Street at     Eastbound Garfield Street
Wilson Street at     Southbound Cherry Street
Wilson Street at     Southbound Ginko Street
Wilson Street at     Southbound Linden Street
 
Note:
   1.    This stop sign is located in the village right of way located
immediately east of the paved surface of Maple Street, and westbound traffic
approaching the intersection of Maple Street and Monroe Street from the eastern
side of that intersection is obligated to stop prior to entering the
intersection.
(1999 Code § 7.25A; amd. Ord. 2007-04, 4-26-2007; Ord. 2007-12, 11-13-2007;
Ord. 2012-03, 1-10-2012; Ord. 2012-18, 8-14-2012; Ord. 2013-03, 6-11-2013)
   C.   Three-Way Stop Intersections: The following intersections are three-way
stop intersections, and the driver of a vehicle approaching any such
intersection shall stop at the stop sign before entering the intersection:
 
Through Traffic On         Stop Traffic On
Birch Street northbound at Adams Street
Birch Street southbound at Adams Street
 
(1999 Code § 7.25A)
   D.   Four-Way Stop Intersections: The following intersections are four-way
intersections, and the driver of a vehicle approaching any such intersection
shall stop before entering the intersection:
Duffy Road and Elm Street
Duffy Road and Pine Street
Garfield Street and Hickory Street
Garfield Street and Maple Street
Garfield Street and Pine Street
Ginkgo Street and Garfield Street
Grant Street and Hickory Street
Linden Street and Garfield Street (1999 Code § 7.25A; amd. Ord. 2008-02, 2-12-
2008; Ord. 2022-01, 1-11-2022)
5-3-2: YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
The intersections described in this section are hereby designated as yield
intersections. Where yield signs are erected in accordance with this section at
the entrance to the yield intersections, the operator of a motor vehicle
approaching a yield sign shall reduce speed and yield the right of way as
required by law. (1999 Code §§ 7.18, 7.25A)
Through Traffic On Yield Traffic On
Through Traffic On      Yield Traffic On
Adams Street at         Birch Street
Adams Street at         Hickory Street
Birch Street at         Alley A
Birch Street at         Garfield Street
Birch Street at         Grant Street
Cedar Street at         Garfield Street
Cedar Street at         Grant Street
Cleveland Street at     Birch Street
Cleveland Street at     Cedar Street
Cleveland Street at     Maple Street
Duffy Road at           Hickory Street
East Garfield Street at North Oak Street
Fuller Drive at         Cruise Lane
Hickory Street at       Greeley Street
Pine Street at          Alley A
Washington Street at    Hickory Street
 
(1999 Code § 7.25A; amd. Ord. 2005-12, 12-13-2005; Ord. 2012-02, 1-10-2012;
Ord. 2013-03, 6-11-2013)
5-3-3: ONE-WAY THOROUGHFARES:
Vehicles or combination vehicles shall only travel on the following
thoroughfares in the following directions:
Westbound on the alley south of Lincoln Street (U.S. Route 30) and north of the
Burlington Northern Railroad tracks from Hickory Street to Elm Street (Ord.
2004-01, 8-10-2004)
5-3-4: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall park a vehicle at such places and during the times designated
in this section:
   A.   Thirty Minute Parking:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than thirty (30) minutes
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
Monday through Saturday, on the following streets:
         The north side of East Lincoln Highway between North Elm Street and
North Cedar Street in the areas designated for 30 minute parking
      2.   The person parking any vehicle found illegally parked under this
subsection shall be fined the sum of five dollars ($5.00) for each offense. If
the parking penalty is not paid within seven (7) days at the village hall,
during business hours, the penalty shall be increased to twenty dollars
($20.00).
   B.   Parking During Snowfall; Snow Routes:
      1.   No person shall park any motor vehicle of any class on any street in
the village after two inches (2") of snow has fallen, until such time as the
snow has been plowed to the side of the street in the following locations which
are designated snow routes in the village:
         Birch Street between Lincoln Highway and George Cies Way
         Cedar Street between Lincoln Highway and George Cies Way
         Lincoln Highway between the east village limits to the west village
limits
         Any street in the village with curbing on both sides
      2.   Any vehicle found illegally parked under this subsection may be
towed away under the order of either the police department or public works
department, and in addition to the fine, the violator or owner of the vehicle
shall pay any necessary towing and storage charges to the towing agency prior
to regaining possession of his/her vehicle. Any vehicle assigned a tow order
will be relocated to a designated area at Village Hall.
      3.   The police department may issue tickets for parking violations of
this subsection; however, no snow parking tickets shall be issued between nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and four o'clock (4:00) A.M. if snow commences after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M. and accumulates to two inches (2") or more before four
o'clock (4:00) A.M.
      4.   The person parking any vehicle found illegally parked under this
subsection shall be fined according to the following fee schedule:
 
First offense                     $25.00
Second offense                    $50.00
Third offense                     $100.00
Fourth offense                    $200.00
Fifth offense and each thereafter $500.00
 
      5.   Liability for the village shall be limited by the Illinois tort
immunity act.
   C.   Handicapped Parking: In accordance with section
5-2-3 of this title, the following stalls are designated as handicapped parking
stalls:
      215 West Adams Street (municipal building)
      Cedar at George Cies Way
      Northwest corner of the municipal parking lot located at the corner of
West Lincoln and North Elm
      Southwest corner of the municipal parking lot located at the corner of
West Lincoln and South Birch
      Three (3) far west parking spaces in parking lot located in Waterman
Lions Community Park
   D.   No Parking Any Time:
      1.   In accordance with this section, no person shall park a vehicle at
any time on the following streets:
         George Cies Way from Elm Street west to the west side of the post
office
      2.   In accordance with this section, no person shall park a vehicle at
any time in the following area:
         East side of the Waterman Lions Community Park shelter house
      3.   The person parking any vehicle found illegally parked under this
subsection shall be fined the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each offense. If
parking penalty is not paid within seven (7) days at the village hall, during
business hours, the penalty shall be increased to twenty dollars ($20.00).
   E.   No Parking During School Functions:
      1.   In accordance with this section, except for persons who reside in
homes adjacent to the prohibited areas, no person shall park a vehicle during
school functions on the following streets:
         East Garfield from North Hickory to Walnut
         East Garfield from Walnut to Linden
         Kennedy from Walnut to Linden
         North Maple north from East Garfield
         North Oak north from East Garfield
         Walnut from Wilson to East Garfield
         Wilson from Walnut to Linden
      2.   The person parking any vehicle found illegally parked under this
subsection shall be fined the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for each offense. If
parking penalty is not paid within seven (7) days at the Village Hall, during
business hours, the penalty shall be increased to twenty dollars ($20.00).
(Ord. 2016-04, 8-23-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-09, 11-12-2019)
5-3-5: SCHOOL SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of the posted speed limits on
the following streets:
   A.   Twenty (20) miles per hour on school days when children are present:
      East Garfield Street from Walnut Street west to Hickory Street
      East Grant Street between North Hickory Street and North Maple Street
      Illinois Route 30 east of Elm Street to Hickory Street
      Illinois Route 30 west of Elm Street to Cedar Street
      North Elm Street north of Garfield Street and south of Grant Street
      North Maple Street between East Garfield Street and East Grant Street
      South Elm Street between Adams Street and south of Washington Street
(Ord. 2012-01, 1-10-2012)
5-3-6: TRUCK ROUTES 1 :
Any vehicle or combination of vehicles exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds
are limited to travel on established truck routes within the limits of the
Village. These routes are:
   Adams Street
   Birch Street between George Cies Way and Adams Street
   Cedar Street between George Cies Way and Route 30
   Duffy Road. Notwithstanding its establishment as a truck route, however, the
portion of Duffy Road lying between Elm Street and the eastern boundary of the
Village shall be posted indicating weight limits not to exceed thirty thousand
(30,000) pounds' (15 tons) gross weight for any vehicle or combination of
vehicles.
   Elm Street
   George Cies Way
   Lincoln Highway/Route 30
   Pine Street between George Cies Way and Route 30
   South Hickory Street to library alley to South Elm Street (Ord. 2005-03, 5-
10-2005; amd. Ord. 2012-04, 1-10-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-4-5 of this title.
5-3-7: VILLAGEWIDE SPEED LIMIT:
Within Village of Waterman limits, the speed limit shall be twenty five (25)
miles per hour on all Village streets unless otherwise posted.
The following streets shall be posted:
 
                                             Miles Per Hour
All alleys                                    15
All roadways in Waterman Lions Community Park 10
South Birch from Adams Street south           20
 
(Ord. 2012-05, 1-10-2012)
5-3-8: NO U-TURN PERMITTED:
The streets described in this section are hereby designated as no U-turns
permitted. Where No U-Turn signs are erected in accordance with this section at
the start and end of:
East Garfield Street beginning at North Maple and continuing to Walnut Street
(Ord. 2017-11, 9-12-2017)
CHAPTER 4
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION; TRUCKS AND LOADS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Clear Vision
5-4-2: Driving Unsafe Vehicles
5-4-3: Gas And Smoke Emissions
5-4-4: Unnecessary Noise
5-4-5: Vehicle Weight Limits And Loads
5-4-6: Trucks Prohibited On Certain Streets
5-4-1: CLEAR VISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. (1999 Code § 17.03)
5-4-2: DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move, or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on any highway, any vehicle which is in
such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property, or which is in
violation of any provisions of this title or any laws of the state. (1999 Code
§ 17.03)
5-4-3: GAS AND SMOKE EMISSIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such an
amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as to
endanger the drivers of other vehicles. (1999 Code § 17.03)
5-4-4: UNNECESSARY NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise. (1999 Code § 17.03)
5-4-5: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS AND LOADS:
   A.   Weight Limit Established: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle
or any combination of vehicles on any street in the village when the gross
weight on the surface of the road of such vehicle or combination of vehicles
exceeds ten thousand (10,000) pounds (5 tons). (1999 Code § 17.10)
   B.   Prohibited Operation: Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a
street is limited by ordinance, and signs indicating such limitations are
posted, it shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on
such street, except for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in
which case, such vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the
minimum distance necessary for the purpose 1 . (1999 Code §§ 17.03, 17.10)
   C.   Fines: Whenever a vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner or driver, or both, shall be deemed guilty
of such violation; and either the owner or driver, or both, may be prosecuted
for such violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of any violation
including, but not limited to, a maximum axle or gross limit of this section
shall be fined in accordance with the appropriate state statute (Illinois
vehicle code) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) as
prescribed in subsection
 1-4-1A of this code. (Ord. 2006-05, 4-11-2006)
   D.   Liability For Damages: Any person driving any vehicle or combination of
vehicles upon any street is liable for any and all damages to the street or
structure. (1999 Code § 17.10)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
   5-3-6 of this title for truck routes.
5-4-6: TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS 1 :
It shall be unlawful to operate a truck upon any street where truck operation
is prohibited by ordinance and where such signs of prohibition are posted;
except, that a truck may be driven on such street for not more than a minimum
distance necessary for the purpose of making deliveries or picking up loads.
(1999 Code § 17.03)
 
Notes
1 2. See section
   5-3-6 of this title for truck routes.
CHAPTER 5
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Restricted Operation
5-5-3: Prohibited Operation
5-5-4: Youthful Operators
5-5-5: Equipment Required
5-5-6: Unattended Snowmobiles
5-5-7: Unlawful Operation
5-5-8: Enforcement
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   OPERATES: To control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR: A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
(1999 Code § 17.06)
5-5-2: RESTRICTED OPERATION:
   A.   On Streets: Any person operating a snowmobile shall not operate such
snowmobile on any village street except to make a direct crossing of such
street as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-1 et seq., and said
person shall strictly observe all traffic signs and signals and all other
traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto.
   B.   Speed Limit: No operator shall drive a snowmobile in excess of ten (10)
miles per hour within the village limits.
   C.   Obedience To Police: In addition, each person operating a snowmobile
shall obey the orders and directions of any police officer of the village
authorized to direct or regulate traffic.
   D.   Route To Permitted Snowmobiling Area: Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions, a person may operate a snowmobile within ten feet (10') of a
village street solely as a route from the snowmobiler's home to an area where
snowmobiling is permitted and to return. (Ord. 2002-03, 4-9-2002)
5-5-3: PROHIBITED OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile:
   A.   Private Property: On private property of another without the express
permission to do so by the owner or occupant of the property.
   B.   Public Property: On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds
and recreational areas, without the express provision or permission to do so by
the proper public authority.
   C.   Noise: In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
so as to disturb or interfere with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   D.   Careless, Reckless Driving: In a careless, reckless or negligent manner
so as to endanger the safety of any person or the property of any other person.
   E.   Registration: Without having such snowmobile registered as provided for
by law. (1999 Code § 17.06)
   F.   Days And Hours: Between ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M., Sunday through
Thursday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day; and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M., Friday and Saturday, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following
day. (1999 Code § 17.06; amd. 2005 Code)
5-5-4: YOUTHFUL OPERATORS:
   A.   No person under ten (10) years of age may operate a snowmobile, other
than machines designed for use by small children primarily as a toy and used
only on private property and not on any public use trail.
   B.   Persons at least ten (10) and less than twelve (12) years of age may
operate a snowmobile only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile by a
parent or guardian or a person at least eighteen (18) years of age designated
by a parent or guardian.
   C.   Persons at least twelve (12) and less than sixteen (16) years of age
may operate a snowmobile only if they are either accompanied on the snowmobile
by a parent or guardian or a person at least sixteen (16) years of age
designated by a parent or guardian, or such operator is in possession of a
certificate issued by the state authorizing the holder to operate snowmobiles.
   D.   Any person who operates a snowmobile on a highway as provided in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5-2 shall: 1) possess a valid motor vehicle
driver's license; or 2) possess a safety certificate as provided for in this
section. Any such person less than sixteen (16) years of age shall also be
under the immediate supervision of a parent or guardian or a person at least
eighteen (18) years of age designated by the parent or guardian. (2005 Code)
5-5-5: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   The following equipment is required on each snowmobile:
      1.   Mufflers: Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise necessary for operating
the vehicle. No person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device on
a snowmobile. (1999 Code § 17.06)
      2.   Brakes And Lights: Adequate brakes in good working condition and at
least one headlight and one taillight in compliance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/4-1. (1999 Code § 17.06; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   Safety Throttle: A safety or so called "dead man" throttle in
operating condition; a "safety" or "dead man" throttle is defined as a device
which, when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, causes the
motor to be disengaged from the driving track. (1999 Code § 17.06)
      4.   Reflective Material: Reflective material of a minimum area of
sixteen (16) square inches mounted on each side of the cowling. Identifying
numbers may be included in computing the required sixteen (16) square inch
area. (2005 Code)
   B.   No person shall operate a snowmobile that is not equipped as provided
in subsection A of this section. (1999 Code § 17.06)
5-5-6: UNATTENDED SNOWMOBILES:
It is unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow a snowmobile to be
or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or with keys
for starting the vehicle left in the ignition. (1999 Code § 17.06)
5-5-7: UNLAWFUL OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or any other person employing or otherwise
directing the operation of any snowmobile to require or knowingly permit the
operation of such snowmobile contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (1999
Code § 17.06)
5-5-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The police department shall patrol the public highways and streets of the
village and make arrests for violations of this chapter. The village attorney,
or any attorney at law duly appointed by the board of trustees to assist him,
shall prosecute the violators of this chapter. (1999 Code § 17.06)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-6-1: Authority To Direct Traffic
5-6-2: Signs Posted
5-6-3: Prima Facie Proof
5-6-4: Towing Vehicles
5-6-5: Penalty
5-6-1: AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Police Department: Members of the police department, special police,
auxiliary police and marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to
direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions of this title, or in
emergencies as public safety or convenience may require. Except in case of
emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct
or attempt to direct traffic.
   B.   Fire Department: The fire department officer in command or any
firefighter designated by him in the absence of or in assisting the police may
exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing traffic at
the scene of any fire or where the fire department has responded to an
emergency call for so long as fire department equipment is on the scene. (1999
Code § 17.02)
5-6-2: SIGNS POSTED:
Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right of
way streets; all one-way streets and alleys; and all stop intersections.
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1999 Code § 17.02)
5-6-3: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that a motor vehicle which is illegally operated or parked is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the vehicle at the time of such violation. (1999
Code § 17.02)
5-6-4: TOWING VEHICLES:
   A.   Reasons For Removal: The police department and all members thereof
assigned to traffic duty may remove and tow away or have removed and towed away
by a commercial towing service any car or other vehicle illegally parked in any
place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks
the use of a fire hydrant, or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle for a period of twenty four (24) consecutive hours. Vehicles
parked in any public street or other public place for a period of forty eight
(48) consecutive hours, except where otherwise permitted by ordinance, may also
be removed or towed away. In addition, any vehicle may be removed or towed away
incident to the arrest of the driver for a criminal or traffic offense (e.g.,
DUI, driving while license suspended, driving without a license, reckless
driving, drag racing, etc.). Cars so towed away shall be stored on any village
property or in a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the
owner or operator thereof after payment of the administrative fee set forth
below and the expense incurred by the village in removing and storing such
vehicles. Nothing in this section relieves the owner or operator of the towed
or impounded vehicle from paying any fees assessed by a commercial towing
service pursuant to the towing or impoundment of said vehicle. (Ord. 2012-20,
9-11-2012)
   B.   Towing Procedures:
      1.   Any vehicle towed to or impounded by the Waterman police department
shall not be released to an individual until said person has produced a valid
driver's license, proof of ownership of the vehicle and valid insurance for the
vehicle, and the payment of a five hundred dollar ($500.00) administrative fee.
(Ord. 2015-07, 6-9-2015)
      2.   Within ten (10) days after a vehicle has been impounded, notice of
impoundment shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner of the vehicle, at the last address reflected in the records
of the secretary of state. The notice shall state that the owner has the right
to a review of the tow and impound upon request and that if the vehicle is not
claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of the notice the vehicle may be
sold or otherwise disposed of in accordance with the Illinois vehicle code.
      3.   Upon written notice to the owner of the vehicle, the chief of police
will review the appropriateness of the tow and impound and the fee charged to
determine its appropriateness.
      4.   Within seven (7) days of the decision of the chief of police, an
owner may appeal said decision in writing to the mayor, and a hearing shall be
held within seven (7) business days. (Ord. 2012-20, 9-11-2012)
5-6-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense, not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second offense, and not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a third or any subsequent offense of this
chapter. In no event shall such fine exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), pursuant to subsection
1-4-1A of this code. (Ord. 2006-05, 4-11-2006)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Supervision By Board Of Trustees
6-1-2: Revocation Of Permits
6-1-3: Sidewalk And Crosswalk Construction Requirements
6-1-4: Grades Of Public Ways
6-1-5: Obstructions And Encroachments
6-1-6: Deposits On Public Ways
6-1-7: Prohibited Injury To And Obstruction Of Sidewalks
6-1-8: Safety Precautions
6-1-9: Trees And Shrubs
6-1-10: Snow And Ice Removal From Sidewalks
6-1-11: Street Vendors
6-1-12: Parades
6-1-12-1: Definitions
6-1-12-2: Assistance
6-1-12-3: Application For Permit; Fee
6-1-12-4: Parade Routes
6-1-12-5: Standards Of Issuance
6-1-12-6: Issuance Of Permit; Contents
6-1-12-7: Denial Of Permit; Notice And Appeal
6-1-12-8: Alternative Permit
6-1-12-9: Duties Of Permittee
6-1-12-10: Public Conduct During Parades
6-1-12-11: Illegally Parked Vehicles; Towing
6-1-12-12: Revocation Of Permit
6-1-12-13: Penalties
6-1-1: SUPERVISION BY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
No street, avenue, alley, public ground or place shall be altered, repaired,
disturbed or improved, in whole or in part, except under the authority, control
and regulation of the board of trustees. (1999 Code § 7.01)
6-1-2: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Every permit granted under this title shall be taken and accepted subject to
the right of the person issuing the same to revoke the permit for noncompliance
with the terms of the permit or the ordinances of the village. (1999 Code §
7.02)
6-1-3: SIDEWALK AND CROSSWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All sidewalks and crosswalks constructed in any street, alley, avenue or public
ground or place shall be constructed under the supervision of, and the material
and workmanship thereof shall be subject to the approval of the board of
trustees. All sidewalks, crossings and spaces beneath sidewalks shall be
subject to the control and regulations of the board of trustees. No person
shall acquire, hold, or use the same for private use. (1999 Code § 7.13)
Where public sidewalk is removed or damaged as part of a construction project,
it shall be the responsibility of the property owner that caused such work to
take place, to replace or repair the sidewalk as necessary. Any replacement of
gravel or reseeding in public ways caused by this project will be the
responsibility of homeowner that caused such work. (Ord. 2022-02, 2-8-2022)
6-1-4: GRADES OF PUBLIC WAYS:
Whenever any grade is established in any street, alley, avenue or public place
or ground, no person shall lay, build or construct any such sidewalk therein
except in conformity therewith. Such sidewalk shall be so constructed that the
outer edge of the top surface thereof at the curb line shall coincide with such
established grade. In all cases where there is no established grade, any such
sidewalk may be constructed wholly in accordance with the directions of and
subject to the approval of the board of trustees. (1999 Code § 7.15)
6-1-5: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Generally: The streets, alleys, avenues, public grounds and
places of the village shall at all times be kept free and clear of all
obstructions, encumbrances and encroachments and shall be open and solely used
for public purposes. No part thereof shall be held or taken for any private use
or purposes whatsoever. (1999 Code § 7.03)
   B.   Encroachments On Lincoln Avenue:
      1.   Definitions:
   ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs) which is
placed, located or maintained in, on or over any portion of the roadway right
of way.
   ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes. The term also means the areas acquired by
temporary easement during the time the easement is in effect.
      2.   Encroachments Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, any
encroachment within the limits of the roadway right of way of U.S. Route 30
(Lincoln Avenue).
      3.   Provisions Are Additional: This subsection is supplemental to all
other ordinances. (1999 Code § 7.05)
   C.   Nuisance Declared 1 ; Abatement: Every unauthorized encroachment upon
or obstruction in any street, avenue, alley or public ground or place is a
nuisance. Any taking, holding, keeping or using of any such street, avenue,
alley or public ground or place for a private purpose or use is a nuisance.
Every such nuisance shall be abated and removed by the mayor, the board of
trustees committee on streets and alleys, or a person acting under direction
and supervision of same. No person shall cause, suffer or permit any such
nuisance. (1999 Code § 7.03)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-5-1V of this code.
6-1-6: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS 1 :
   A.   Prohibited Deposits; Removal Required: It shall be unlawful for any
person to throw, deposit or place, or cause, suffer or permit to be thrown,
deposited or placed, in any street, alley, avenue, public ground or place any
dirt, filth, rubbish, waste, stone, gravel, wood, brush, trees, material, thing
or property of any kind. It shall be the duty of such person to remove the same
promptly and without injury or damage in any way to any such street, avenue,
alley or public ground or place, or to any person or property lawfully therein
and without marring, spoiling or defacing the same. (1999 Code §§ 7.04, 7.09)
   B.   Street Improvements:
      1.   Safety Devices: It shall be the duty of every person lawfully
authorized to make a deposit on any street, avenue, alley or public ground or
place to guard the same in such manner so as to prevent injury to persons or
property. Such person shall at all times during darkness and whenever
necessary, in addition to guards and other protection, have signal lights
placed so as to apprise the public of the location thereof and the danger
incident thereto. All material used for the improvement of any such street,
alley, avenue or public ground or place shall be deposited thereon near the
place, point or location where the same is to be used, and it shall be the duty
of every contractor or person making such improvement to guard the same in such
manner as herein provided to prevent injury to persons or property. Every
person failing to do so or observe the provisions hereof shall be liable for
all damages, costs, expenses and attorney fees arising by reason thereof or on
account of same.
      2.   Removal Of Debris: It shall be the duty of every person making any
improvement in any street, alley, avenue or public ground or place to promptly
remove therefrom all material and rubbish not required for such improvement,
and to protect the place so improved or being improved, together with all
material or property used in connection therewith or taken therefrom, in such a
way as to prevent injury to persons or property. Such person shall be liable
for all damages and injuries sustained on account thereof arising therefrom.
(1999 Code § 7.04)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-2-3 of this code.
6-1-7: PROHIBITED INJURY TO AND OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break, deface, mar or destroy
any sidewalk along any street, alley, avenue or public ground or place, or to
obstruct or encumber the same, or to store, place or keep thereon any property
or thing that will prevent such sidewalk from being free and open at all times
to public use and travel. (1999 Code § 7.14)
6-1-8: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, keep, or maintain, or cause,
suffer or permit to be made, kept or maintained, any hole, excavation 1 , pit,
opening in any building, structure or place, or any cellar adjacent to or
abutting upon any street, avenue or public place or ground in an unprotected,
unsafe or insecure manner and without proper and sufficient guards, railings or
balustrades or without a properly guarded and protected stairway. The same
shall be so kept and maintained as to be safe to persons and property upon such
street, alley, avenue, public place or ground and to prevent such persons or
property from falling therein. (1999 Code § 7.06)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-2-3 of this title.
6-1-9: TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Overhanging Public Ways 1 ; Height Restriction: It shall be unlawful
for any person to suffer or permit the branches or parts of any tree, shrub or
vine hanging or being over any sidewalk to be nearer thereto than ten feet
(10') above the same or to suffer or permit vines, shrubbery or plants to grow
or be on any such sidewalk or obstruct the free use thereof. (1999 Code § 7.16)
   B.   Damage To, Protection Of Trees And Shrubs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, mar, destroy, cut,
break or tear any tree, shrub or plant or part thereof in any street, avenue,
alley, public ground or place in the village.
      2.   Whenever any person has lawful authority to place wires, conduits,
poles or other similar things in any such place, they must first have a permit
in writing from the board of trustees to disturb, injure, harm, destroy, cut,
break or tear any such tree, shrub or plant or any part thereof interfering
with or standing or being in the way of such wires, conduits, poles or other
similar things in any such place.
      3.   This subsection does not apply to the village or its authorized
agents, servants or employees in the maintenance, repair and regulation of any
such street or place. (1999 Code § 7.07)
   C.   Vegetation In Parkway And Easement:
      1.   Definitions:
   EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner to, or
for the use by, the public, a corporation or another person or entity for a
specific purpose. For the purpose of this title, easements shall include the
utility easement.
   PARKWAY: That area beginning from the back of the curb or the edge of a
gravel shoulder and extending to the front edge of the sidewalk.
      2.   Vegetation: No vegetation shall be planted in any parkway or utility
easement that has the capability of exceeding twenty feet (20') in height.
Examples would include, but not be limited to, maple, elm, and blue spruce.
      3.   Overhead Utilities: Subsection C2 of this section applies to any
parkway or utility easement that contains overhead electric utilities.
      4.   Trees: No trees may be planted in any utility easement including
easements that contain underground electric utilities.
      5.   Vines: No vines of any species shall be planted in any parkway or
utility easement that contain overhead electric utilities.
      6.   Penalties: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision
of this subsection C shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2013-08, 8-20-2013)
   D.   Nuisance Trees: A tree which is determined by the Village of Waterman
to be a nuisance tree is one which is dead or declining and has the potential
to damage other trees, people, or structures. These trees may be located on
public or private property.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the property owner on any parcel to promptly
remove any trees which pose a risk to personal property or human safety.
      2.   When the Village notifies the property owner, in writing, of a tree
which is a potential risk to personal property or human safety, the property
owner shall have twenty (20) calendar days to remove the tree. If the property
owner has not removed the tree within the 20-day period, then the Village may
take action to have the tree removed. If the tree is removed by the Village, a
Village invoice shall be sent to the property owner that contains all costs
associated with the removal, including but not limited to expended Village
staff time, consultant fees and charges, contractor charges and materials, and
oversight of said removal. If the property owner fails or refuses to reimburse
the Village within thirty (30) calendar days of issuance of a written invoice,
the Village shall place a lien on the property until all expenses related to
the removal and subsequent lien are paid, and the Village may file a legal
action to collect the costs contained in the invoice. (Ord. 2013-08, 8-20-2013;
amd. Ord. 2024-03, 6-11-2024)
 
Notes
  2. See sections
1 8-3-7 and
  9-2-1, definition of "sight distance triangle", of this code for sight
  distances on corner lots.
6-1-10: SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Removal Required; Time Constraints: Every owner, lessee, tenant,
occupant, or other person in possession of or having charge of any building or
lot of ground in the village abutting upon any public way or public place
(hereinafter “person in charge”) shall remove the snow and ice from the
sidewalks of such building or lot of ground within twenty-four (24) hours after
accumulation thereof. If said person in charge fails to remove such
accumulation of snow and ice within said period, a written warning shall be
served upon the person in charge. If compliance in removing the snow, ice or
other accumulation is not achieved within the twenty-four (24) hours following
the service of such a notice, a fifty-dollar ($50.00) fine shall be imposed for
each twenty-four (24) hour period thereafter that the snow and ice is not
removed. In addition, the village may, at any time and in its sole discretion,
take action to remove snow and ice from the sidewalk, at the expense of the
person responsible for the same.
   B.   Use of Sand or Salt: In case the snow and ice on the sidewalk shall be
frozen so hard that it cannot be removed without injury to the pavement, the
person in charge of any building or lot of ground as aforesaid shall, within
the time specified, cause the sidewalk abutting on the said premises to be
strewn with salt, sand, or some similar suitable material, and shall, as soon
thereafter as the weather shall permit, thoroughly clean said sidewalk.
   C.   Nonliability For Damages: Any person who removed snow or ice from the
public sidewalk or street shall not, because of his acts or omissions in such
removal, be liable for civil damages. This subsection does not apply to acts or
omissions amounting to willful or wanton misconduct in such snow or ice
removal. (1999 Code § 7.22; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 2-9-2021)
6-1-11: STREET VENDORS 1 :
Any vendor of merchandise desiring to make a temporary stopping place in any
street to sell or vend such merchandise or to advertise the same shall first
obtain a permit from the mayor to do so. If the public interest shall in no way
be prejudiced or the public annoyed or discommoded thereby, the mayor may grant
permission to such vendor to occupy the particular portion of the street
designated for a period not exceeding three (3) hours at any one time. If,
after giving such permission, said interests are shown to be prejudiced, or
public travel and convenience are in any way interfering with the public, the
mayor shall have power to revoke any such permission so granted, and all rights
and privileges thereunder shall thereupon cease. (1999 Code § 7.08; amd. 2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 3, chapter 2 of this code for regulation of peddlers and
  solicitors.
6-1-12: PARADES:
6-1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this section
 6-1-12, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section:
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of the Waterman police department or the acting
chief of police, in the event the chief of police is incapacitated.
   PARADE: Any parade, march, ceremony, demonstration, protest, assembly, show,
exhibition, pageant or procession of any kind or any similar display in or upon
any street, park or other public place in the village of Waterman.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   VILLAGE: The village of Waterman. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-2: ASSISTANCE:
All organizations participating in any parade including those not residing
within the corporate limits of the village shall be asked to provide assistance
in the form of personnel and/or monetarily. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Application: A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the chief of police on forms provided by such officer.
   B.   Filing Period: An application for a parade permit shall be filed with
the chief of police not less than thirty (30) days nor more than sixty (60)
days before the date on which it is proposed to conduct the parade. The chief
shall issue or deny said permit within five (5) days of application.
   C.   Contents: The application for a parade permit shall set forth the
following information:
      1.   Organization: The name, address, and telephone number of the person
seeking to conduct such parade. If the parade is proposed to be conducted for,
on behalf of or by an organization, the name, address and telephone number of
the headquarters of the organization and of the authorized and responsible
heads of such organization.
      2.   Parade Chairman: The name, address, and telephone number of the
person who will be the parade chairman and who will be responsible for its
conduct.
      3.   Date: The date when the parade is to be conducted.
      4.   Route: The route to be traveled (street names), the starting point
and the termination point.
      5.   Number Of Participants: The approximate number of persons who, and
animals and vehicles which, will constitute such parade; the type of animals,
and the description of the vehicles.
      6.   Hours Of Parade: The hours when such parade will start and
terminate.
      7.   Amount Of Street Used: A statement as to whether the parade will
occupy all or only a portion of the width of the streets proposed to be
traversed.
      8.   Assembly Area: The location by streets of any assembly areas for
such parade.
      9.   Time Parade Starts To Assemble: The time at which units of the
parade will begin to assemble at any such assembly area or areas.
      10.   Authorization To Apply On Behalf Of Another: If the parade is
designed to be held by and on behalf of or for any person other than the
applicant, the applicant for such permit shall file with the chief of police a
communication, in writing, from the person proposing to hold the parade,
authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on his behalf.
      11.   Additional Information: Any additional information which the chief
of police shall find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether
a permit should issue.
   D.   Late Applications: The chief of police, where good cause is shown
therefor, shall have the authority to consider any application hereunder which
is filed less than fifteen (15) days before the date such parade is proposed to
be conducted.
   E.   Fee: There shall be paid at the time of filing the application for a
parade permit a fee of ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-4: PARADE ROUTES:
   A.   Routes Designated: The chief of police of the village shall have the
right to issue permits for parade routes as defined by the applicant and
prohibit the parking of motor vehicles on said streets a maximum of eight (8)
hours before any parade commences. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-5: STANDARDS OF ISSUANCE:
The chief of police shall issue a permit as provided for hereunder when, from a
consideration of the application and from such other information as may
otherwise be obtained, he finds that:
   A.   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route.
   B.   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the village to properly police the line of
movement and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police
protection to the village.
   C.   The conduct of such parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances as to prevent normal ambulance service to portions of the
village other than that to be occupied by the proposed line of march and area
contiguous thereto.
   D.   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly areas.
   E.   The conduct of such parade will not unduly interfere with the movement
of firefighting equipment en route to a fire.
   F.   The conduct of the parade is not reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create a violation of
civil or property rights or of any other law.
   G.   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route.
   H.   The parade is not to be held for the sole purpose of advertising any
product, good or event, and is not designed to be held purely for private
profit. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-6: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONTENTS:
   A.   Notice To Village Board: Immediately upon the issuance of a parade
permit, the chief of police shall send a copy thereof to the following:
      1.   The mayor.
      2.   The fire chief.
      3.   The superintendent of public works.
      4.   The postmaster. (Parades may impact mail delivery.)
   B.   Contents Of Permit: Each parade permit shall state the following
information:
      1.   Starting time.
      2.   The portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by
the parade.
      3.   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof.
      4.   Such other information as the chief of police shall find necessary
to the enforcement of this section.
      5.   Village of Waterman police and public works manpower needs. (Ord.
2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-7: DENIAL OF PERMIT; NOTICE AND APPEAL:
   A.   Right To Deny: The chief of police shall have the right to refuse to
issue any parade permit that would affect the health, safety and morals of the
residents of the village. Said rejections and reasons for same must be approved
by the village board within fifteen (15) days of the parade application.
   B.   Denial Notice: If the chief of police disapproves the application, he
shall mail by certified mail to the applicant within five (5) days after the
date upon which the application was filed, a notice of his action, stating the
reasons for his denial of the permit.
   C.   Appeal Procedure: Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal
the denial of a parade permit to the village board. A notice of appeal shall be
filed with the village clerk within three (3) days after receipt of notice of
the chief's action. The village board shall act upon the appeal at the next
meeting of said board after such filing. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-8: ALTERNATIVE PERMIT:
The chief of police, in denying an application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade on a date, at a time or over a
route different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to
accept an alternate permit shall, within three (3) days after notice of the
action of the chief of police, file a written notice of acceptance with the
chief of police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements
of and shall have the effect of a parade permit under this section
6-1-12. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-9: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
   A.   Compliance With Laws: A permittee hereunder shall comply with all
permit directions and conditions and with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   B.   Possession Of Permit: The parade chairman or other person heading or
leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon his person during the
conduct of the parade. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-10: PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES:
   A.   Interference: No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct or impede
or interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   B.   Driving Through Parades: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in
motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade.
   C.   Parking On A Parade Route: The chief of police shall have the
authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or restrict the parking of
vehicles along a highway or part thereof constituting a part of the route of a
parade. The chief of police shall post signs to such effect and it shall be
unlawful for any person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation
thereof. No person shall be liable for parking on a street unposted in
violation of this section. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-11: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; TOWING:
The police department and all members thereof assigned to traffic duty are
hereby authorized to remove and tow away any vehicle illegally parked;
including vehicles parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or
constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks an entrance drive, exit drive or driveway,
blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs the movement of any emergency
vehicle; or in any public place where signs have been legally posted either
limiting or prohibiting parking; or any vehicle not parked within designated
parking spaces on roadways. Vehicles towed away shall be stored and shall be
released to the owner or operator thereof after payment of the applicable
towing and storage fees pursuant to section
5-6-4 of this code. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-12: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The chief of police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder upon application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
(Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
6-1-12-13: PENALTIES:
Any person failing to comply with this section by holding a parade without a
permit shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. In addition, any person taking part in a parade without the
required permit and intending to be a part of such parade as distinguished from
a mere observer shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; and further, any person violating or failing to comply with
any terms or provisions of a permit shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code if said person was responsible for holding the parade and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code if said person is found to have participated in such a
parade. (Ord. 2012-22, 11-13-2012)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION OF/IN PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Purpose And Scope
6-2-2: Permit Required; Application And Fees
6-2-3: Performance Bond Required
6-2-4: Safety Precautions
6-2-5: Liability For Damages
6-2-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights-of-way and the city as a whole.
   B.   Scope. This Chapter applies to all utility facilities on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-of-way within the jurisdiction
of the Village. A utility lawfully established prior to the effective date of
this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the
utility as presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise
provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   C.   Conflict in Terms. In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency
between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise,
license or similar agreement between the Village and any telecommunications
provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall
govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or
extension thereof.
(Ord. 2023-05, 6-13-2023)
6-2-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEES:
   A.    Permit Required. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any
and all Village property including easements, rights-of-way and the like for
the purpose of performing any construction, alteration, repair of buildings or
other structures or sidewalk, street, sewer or water installation, installation
or placement of utility facilities, repair or improvement without first
obtaining a permit as set forth in this section.
   No person shall construct any utility facility on, over, above, along, upon,
under, across, or within any Village right-of-way which (1) changes the
location of the facility, (2) adds a new facility, (3) disrupts the right-of-
way (as defined in this chapter), or (4) materially increases the amount of
area or space occupied by the facility on, over, above, along, under across or
within the right-of-way, without first filing an application with the Village
and obtaining a permit from the Village. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customers' premises
where there will be no disruption of the right-of-way.
   B.   Permit Application and Approval. Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the Village
Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons, therefore. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty
of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer
that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.    Effect of Permit; No Property Right or Other Interest Created. A
permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on Village rights-of-way and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2023-05, 6-13-2023)
6-2-3: PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   A performance bond in an amount determined by the board of trustees
shall be required for any work in the public right of way, including, but not
limited to, any public sidewalk construction, curb cut or street breaking. The
bond shall be established in a sufficient amount to pay for any and all damages
which occur to any tree, street, sidewalk, roadway or to any appurtenance
belonging to the village, or to any cable, telephone or electric pole or wire,
or to trees or to other property of adjacent private property holders, whether
or not such damage was inflicted by the permit holder or his agents or
employees.
   B.   All performance bonds shall provide good and sufficient sureties to
save and indemnify the village against all liabilities, judgments and expenses
which may accrue against the village in consequence of the granting of a permit
to perform construction or repair work within the public right of way or in
consequence of any substandard work. No bond will be accepted which is not
accompanied by a certificate showing:
      1.   Liability insurance in force, the limits of which are not less than
two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) for injury to one person and
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for injuries arising out of an
accident in which more than one person is involved.
      2.   Property damage insurance in force, with a minimum coverage of two
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) and a deductible clause not
exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each certificate of insurance must
indicate the policy's expiration date.
(Ord. 2023-05, 6-13-2023)
6-2-4: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
It shall be the duty of every person who opens any street, alley, avenue or
public ground or place to guard the same in such manner so as to prevent injury
to persons or property. Such person shall at all times during darkness and
whenever necessary, in addition to guards and other protection, have signal
lights placed so as to apprise the public of the location thereof and the
danger incident thereto. Every such person who fails to do so or fails to
observe the provisions hereof shall be liable for all damages, costs, expenses,
and attorney fees arising by reason thereof or on account of the same.
(Ord. 2023-05, 6-13-2023)
6-2-5: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
Every person receiving a permit to make any hole, ditch, pit, vault or
excavation in any street, alley, avenue or public ground or place shall be
issued such permit upon the express conditions that he shall take every
precaution to protect the public against the same and to prevent accidents or
injuries to property or persons, and that he shall be liable for all damages,
injuries, expenses, attorney fees or costs arising therefrom or on account
thereof.
(Ord. 2023-05, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND COMMON AREAS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Use Of Parks
6-3-2: Camping
6-3-3: Motorized Vehicles
6-3-4: Shelters
6-3-5: Alcohol
6-3-6: Animals
6-3-7: Fireworks
6-3-8: Penalty
6-3-9: Firearms
6-3-10: Splash Pad Rules
6-3-1: USE OF PARKS:
   A.   Parks and common areas are available for use by residents, guests, and
visitors.
   B.   Village parks shall be open and available for use from dawn until dusk.
   C.   Extended hours may be granted by Village permit.
   D.   Safe use of the parks and common areas is the responsibility of the
individual.
   E.   The Village of Waterman is not responsible for any injuries or damages
from inappropriate use or activities.
   F.   Damage to the parks and common areas shall be the sole responsibility
of the responsible person.
   G.   No person shall cut, pick, mutilate, move or attempt to move or in any
other way harm a tree, bush, shrub, flower, wild flower, turf, rock, stone, or
other natural or fabricated formation on park property.
   H.   No person shall deface or destroy any bench, sign, building or any
other property at the park.
   I.   No person shall build a fire of wood, charcoal or other material on the
ground or any other place other than in designated areas.
   J.   No person shall hunt, trap, kill, disturb, molest, or destroy a nest of
any bird or migratory waterfowl, or in any way harm or feed any wild animals
within park property.
   K.   No person shall discard any rubbish or garbage on park grounds except
in receptacles provided for such purpose. Illegal dumping is strictly
prohibited.
   L.   Persons shall use playground equipment in a manner for which it is
intended and shall refrain from using playground equipment in a manner which
threatens to harm other persons or damage their property or property of the
park, including activities which may result in damage to the playground
equipment being improperly used.
   M.   No person on park property shall engage in loud, boisterous,
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language, or engage in any
disorderly conduct or behavior tending to disturb public peace. (Ord. 2019-03,
6-11-2019)
6-3-2: CAMPING:
   A.   Camping shall be defined as: the act of using any part of the property
or facilities for living accommodation purposes, such as establishment of
temporary or permanent living quarters, sleeping outdoors overnight or making
preparations for overnight sleeping (including the laying down of bedding),
storing personal belongings, using any tent, shelter, or similar structure
regardless of size for sleeping; sleeping in, on, or under parked vehicles, or
setting up temporary or permanent sleeping areas outdoors or in structures not
designated for human occupancy.
   B.   Camping is prohibited unless a permit is obtained by the Village. (Ord.
2019-03, 6-11-2019; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 1-14-2025)
6-3-3: MOTORIZED VEHICLES:
   A.   Operation of motorized vehicles is prohibited except on designated
roads.
   B.   All vehicles must be operated by a licensed driver.
   C.   Speed limit is ten (10) mph.
   D.   The use of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles is prohibited.
   E.   Parking is prohibited except in designated parking areas and
immediately adjacent to designated roads. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-4: SHELTERS:
   A.   All shelters shall be used in a neat and safe manner.
   B.   The enclosed shelter may be reserved at Village Hall for a fee.
   C.   Renters are required to clean the shelter and dispose of trash in the
approved receptacle at the end of their use.
   D.   All damages are the responsibility of the renter.
   E.   Rental of the shelter does not include exclusive use of the other park
facilities. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-5: ALCOHOL:
   A.   Alcohol use is prohibited in all Village parks and common areas unless
a permit is obtained from the Village.
   B.   Sale of alcohol is allowed only with a temporary license obtained
through the Liquor Commissioner.
   C.   No person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall possess or consume any
alcohol.
   D.   No open containers may be carried in or out of Lion's Park at any time.
(Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019; Ord. 2021-09, 10-12-2021)
6-3-6: ANIMALS:
   A.   Dogs are allowed to use the parks and common areas but must be on a
leash.
   B.   Animal waste must be picked up by the owner and disposed of properly.
   C.   Other animals may be allowed by permit only. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-7: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Fireworks are strictly prohibited except as allowed in title 4, chapter
6 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-8: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person or persons found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
fined for each offense in addition to paying for any damages or other expenses.
(Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-9: FIREARMS:
   A.   Firearms are strictly prohibited unless a permit is obtained from the
Village. (Ord. 2019-03, 6-11-2019)
6-3-10: SPLASH PAD RULES:
   A.   The Committee on Public Safety is authorized to create "Rules for Use"
of the Splash Pad located in Waterman Lion's Park. The Committee on Public
Safety shall provide the rules for use to the Board of Trustees and the rules
shall be posted in village hall and on the village's website. Any change to the
"Rules for Use" must be approved by the Committee on Public Safety.
   B.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate the "Rules for Use" may be asked
to leave the park and may be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and will be required to pay for any
damages. (Ord. 2021-09, 10-12-2021)
TITLE 7
UTILITIES
Solid Waste Disposal And Collection   1
Restaurants   1A
Water Use And Service   2
Cross Connection Control   2A
Sewer Use And Service   3
Wastewater Service Rates And Charges   3A
Payment Of Cable Television Franchise Fees   4
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
SECTION:
7-1-1: Use By Other Than Owner Or Occupant
7-1-2: Rates And Charges
7-1-3: Books, Records And Accounts
7-1-1: USE BY OTHER THAN OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
No garbage collection service consumer shall allow individuals, other than the
owner or occupant of the premises, to use said garbage collection service.
(1999 Code § 8.02)
7-1-2: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established; Annual Review: The charge for garbage
collection services provided by the village shall be determined by the board of
trustees. This charge shall be reviewed on an annual basis at the March meeting
of the board of trustees. (1999 Code § 8.03; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Authority To Alter Rates And Charges Under Certain Circumstances: The
board of trustees reserves the right to make special arrangements fixing rates
and charges for services to properties for which the above rates are not, in
its opinion, equitable or proper.
   C.   Bills For Service; Late Payments: Charges for services shall be payable
on a quarterly basis, and billings will be made as of February 1, May 1, August
1 and November 1. A delayed payment charge equal to ten percent (10%) of any
bill shall be added to any bill not paid in full by its due date.
   D.   Liability For Service; Lien For Nonpayment: The owner of the premises,
the occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service on such premises, and the service is
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable therefor to the village. Such charges or rates shall be liens
upon the real estate upon or for which service is supplied whenever charges or
rates become delinquent, and a notice of such lien shall be filed with the
county recorder of deeds.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such services are not
paid within forty five (45) days after rendition of the bill for such services,
such services shall be discontinued without further notice, and the same will
not be reestablished until all delinquent bills and penalties are paid in full.
(1999 Code § 8.03)
   F.   Disposition Of Revenues: The village clerk shall receive all revenues
from the garbage collection service and all other funds and monies incident to
the operation of said service as the same may be delivered to the village clerk
and deposit the same in the general fund, which fund shall be used only in
paying the reasonable cost of operation and maintenance of the system,
including salaries, wages, cost of materials, supplies, purchase of power,
insurance and the reasonable repairs and extensions necessary to render
efficient service, provide an adequate depreciation fund and any other charges
properly chargeable against the garbage collection service. (1999 Code § 8.03;
amd. 2005 Code)
7-1-3: BOOKS, RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS:
The village clerk and finance committee chairperson shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
garbage collection service. The board of trustees shall cause an annual audit
thereof to be made. (1999 Code § 8.01; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
7-1A-1: Definitions
7-1A-2: Proper Disposal Required
7-1A-3: Preparation Of Garbage; Secure Dumpsters
7-1A-4: Nuisance Conditions
7-1A-5: Penalty
7-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
   GARBAGE: Every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter, liquid or
otherwise, that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or storing
of meat, fish, fruit or vegetables.
   RESTAURANT: Any public place where meals are served and prepared. (1999 Code
§ 18.04)
7-1A-2: PROPER DISPOSAL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or employed
by a restaurant to dispose of or dump garbage generated from such restaurant
upon the streets of the village or upon any public or private premises other
than in an approved receptacle as hereinafter described. (1999 Code § 18.04)
7-1A-3: PREPARATION OF GARBAGE; SECURE DUMPSTERS:
Garbage generated from a restaurant shall be placed in garbage bags of heavy,
multi-ply paper of polyethylene or ethylene copolymer resin or other such
material so liquids and greases will not be able to penetrate through the
material and be of sufficient thickness and strength to contain the garbage
enclosed without tearing or ripping under normal handling. The bags shall be
securely tied or sealed to prevent emission of odors and then shall be placed
in a dumpster of sufficient size to contain all the garbage generated by such
restaurant between the regularly scheduled pick up for such dumpster. The
dumpsters shall also have a strong and secure lid which shall be closed
completely at all times except when loading or unloading such dumpster. (1999
Code § 18.04)
7-1A-4: NUISANCE CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared; Notice: Any garbage that is stored, deposited or
placed for collection in a manner contrary to this article is expressly
declared to be a nuisance, and the owner or manager of such restaurant shall be
given written notice of such nuisance by the village chief of police or his
designee, and the owner or manager of shall abate such nuisance within forty
eight (48) hours of such notice.
   B.   Abatement By Village; Costs To Owner: Should the owner or manager fail
to abate such nuisance within the time allowed, the village and/or its agents
or employees may abate such nuisance, and the cost of abating such nuisance
shall be the responsibility of such owner or manager and may be recoverable in
an action maintained in a court of competent jurisdiction. (1999 Code § 18.04)
7-1A-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this article by creating,
maintaining or causing to be created or maintained a nuisance, shall be fined
not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each offense in addition to paying for any abatement
expenses. Each day or portion thereof for which any nuisance is continued,
maintained or suffered to be continued or maintained by the person creating,
causing or suffering the same to be created or maintained, after reasonable
notice to abate the same, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
(1999 Code § 18.05; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Water System Established; Supervision
7-2-2: Connection To Water System
7-2-3: Construction Specifications
7-2-4: Meters
7-2-5: Public Hydrants And Fountains
7-2-6: Water Use Regulations
7-2-7: Maintenance And Repair
7-2-8: Obstruction, Injury To System
7-2-9: Authority To Turn Off Water Under Certain Circumstances
7-2-10: Bills For Water And Sewer Service; Delinquencies
7-2-11: Private Water Wells
7-2-12: Inspections
7-2-13: Plumber's Return To Work Report
7-2-14: Nonliability Of Village
7-2-15: Changes, Alterations To Provisions
7-2-16: Enforcement; Penalty
7-2-1: WATER SYSTEM ESTABLISHED; SUPERVISION:
The system of water supply and distribution heretofore established, built and
constructed by the village is hereby continued as the property of the village
and under its control, jurisdiction and management. Said system and plant shall
at all times be maintained, repaired, altered, changed, controlled and extended
under the authority and ownership of the village. Said system shall be under
the jurisdiction of the superintendent of public works as established herein.
(1999 Code § 16.01)
7-2-2: CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Application For Connection: Any person desiring to make any connection
with the water system and plant, or use water therefrom, shall first make
application to the superintendent for that purpose upon a blank form or forms
to be furnished by the superintendent. Every such applicant shall state
specifically and in detail the place, location and kind of connection and
appendages sought, the purpose for which the water is to be used and all the
plumbing and plumbing work in any manner or way connected therewith. (1999 Code
§ 16.02)
   B.   Issuance Of Permit; Restrictions: When the applicant hereunder has
complied with all the provisions of the ordinances of the village, a permit
shall then be issued by the superintendent authorizing the connection to be
made and all plumbing and plumbing work in any manner or way connected
therewith to be done. Nothing in the permit contained shall be construed to
permit or authorize any such connection or use of water to be made, had or
maintained contrary to the provisions of this chapter, nor shall it be
understood to authorize anything not explicitly and truthfully stated in the
application.
   C.   Separate Permits Required: A special permit must be obtained for each
connection serving a single building, residence, premises or place.
   D.   Branch Connections:
      1.   When branch connections are used to serve additional buildings,
residences, premises or places, a permit must be obtained for each branch
serving a single building, residence, premises or place. No branch shall,
however, extend more than thirty feet (30') on either side from such
connection. No branches shall be used or installed unless it can be done
without impairing the convenience and ability to extinguish fires, and for this
purpose, no permit for a branch shall be issued unless first approved by the
superintendent of public works. (1999 Code § 16.03)
      2.   Whenever branches are used with any such connection, the applicant
for the main connection or his successor shall be responsible for all such
branches and the payments of the water rents or rates herein required and for
the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter in the placing, using
and maintenance of such branches. (1999 Code § 16.03; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Tapping Mains; Fee: Whenever any permit for a connection with a water
main is issued, the superintendent of public works or his designee shall tap
the main where the connection from said main and point of junction to the
village cock and insert said cock and place the cast iron cut off box thereon.
The customer for whom the tap is made shall be solely responsible for any and
all required excavation, backfill and street repair. All applicants must pay
the connection fee set for this purpose by the village board, which fee must be
paid at the time the application is made. (1999 Code § 16.04)
   F.   Report Of Plumber: It shall be the duty of the plumber installing said
work to report to the superintendent everything done in connection therewith
and any departure from or violation of such permit. Every such person so making
the connection with the system or plant or using water therefrom shall make
connection and use such water subject at all times to the provisions and
conditions of the ordinances of the village in force or to become in force at
any time during the period such connections are maintained or such water is
used, and shall, in all respects, conform to the provisions and conditions of
this chapter. (1999 Code § 16.02)
   G.   Records Kept: It shall be the duty of the superintendent at the time
application as herein required is made, to enter in a book to be kept for that
purpose, the statements and representations of the applicant as to places,
location, kind and extent of the connection to be made, the purpose for which
the water is to be used, and all the plumbing and plumbing work in any manner
or way connected therewith as by this chapter required of such applicant to be
given specifically and in detail. (1999 Code § 16.05)
7-2-3: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Drain And Waste Cock: There shall be a drain and waste cock attached to
every supply pipe at the point where it enters the building in such a manner as
to allow the water to be shut off in cold or freezing weather, and the pipes to
be emptied.
   B.   Kind And Quality Of Copper Pipe:
      1.   The connection from the main and all authorized branches to the
inside line of the building or house shall be placed at least five and one-half
feet (51/2') below the surface of the ground and shall be made of copper pipe
of the quality known in commerce as "extra strong". The pipe shall be laid
sufficiently wavy so that it shall be at least one foot (1') longer than if
laid straight and placed in such a manner as to prevent rupture or breakage
from settling of the ground. All copper pipe used for interior plumbing shall
be of the same quality known in commerce as "extra strong".
      2.   For interior plumbing work beyond the inside of the building or
house, galvanized iron pipe, joints and couplings shall be of a quality known
in commerce as "standard". Other interior plumbing may be of such kind as the
applicant or owner may direct, but such and all other must stand a pressure of
three hundred (300) pounds to the square inch. All drain cocks used in
connection with said waterworks system or plant shall be made of brass and
shall be of a quality known in commerce as "standard" and shall be strong
enough to resist the pressure of water in all cases.
   C.   Time For Connections; Size: No connections shall be made with the mains
in freezing weather unless special circumstances make the same safe, and then
only when approved by the superintendent. All connections where the same join
the main shall be at least twenty four inches (24") apart. The opening or tap
for any connection in a four inch (4") main shall not be larger than to receive
a five-eighths inch (5/8") connection; for a six inch (6") main, no larger than
to receive a three-fourths inch (3/4") connection; and all above six inch (6")
mains, no larger than to receive a one inch (1") connection; except in mains
above six inches (6") under special circumstances rendering it safe, and then
only when first permitted by the superintendent, a tap to receive a larger
connection than one inch (1") may be made.
   D.   Height Of Public Hydrants And Street Washers: All public hydrants and
street washers shall extend at least five feet (5') into the ground and shall
have a good and sufficient drip well surrounded with rubble stone, so as to
allow free drainage of water from the bottom thereof. (1999 Code § 16.06)
7-2-4: METERS:
   A.   Installation Requirements: A water meter must be installed by a
registered plumber prior to the "rough in" plumbing inspection. All water
consumption shall be directed through and measured by this meter, which will be
supplied by the village water department. Wire, valves and yoke may be
purchased from the village. A one-half inch (1/2") electrical conduit or one-
half inch (1/2") PVC must be run from the meter location to the remote reader
location on the front elevation of house. The meter shall be inspected by the
superintendent of public works as to accuracy prior to "rough in" plumbing
inspection. (Ord. 2005-08, 9-13-2005)
   B.   Meter Tests; Fee: Persons, firms or corporations receiving water
service by the village may request and have their water meters tested for
accuracy as hereinafter provided. Any person, firm or corporation requesting to
have his water meter tested shall notify the village. The village shall have
the meter removed for testing purposes. If the testing of the meter should
indicate that the meter was accurately reading water flow or under reading
water flow through the meter, then the person, firm or corporation requesting
the meter be checked shall pay to the village a charge of fifty five dollars
($55.00) for testing the meter and an additional fifty dollar ($50.00) charge
to the village for pulling and reinstalling the meter. If the testing of the
meter should indicate that the meter was overreading water flow, then the
charges for testing and the reinstallation of a meter shall be waived by the
village. (1999 Code § 16.06)
7-2-5: PUBLIC HYDRANTS AND FOUNTAINS:
   A.   Installation: No permit shall be required for the placing of public
hydrants, fire hydrants, public fountains or public fixtures or work connected
with such water system or plant, but the same shall be put in, in the manner
and when directed by the board of trustees.
   B.   Use Restricted: No person except members of the fire department in the
line of their duties or the chief of police shall take any water from any
public hydrant, fireplug or other public fixture connected with the water
system or plant, and as to those excepted, such water shall only be taken or
used by them for public or corporate purposes. All water taken from public
hydrants or faucets shall only be taken therefrom for immediate use and
consumption at such public hydrants or faucets and shall not otherwise be used
for private purposes in any way. (1999 Code § 16.07)
7-2-6: WATER USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Construction: Persons desiring to use village water for
building purposes shall make application therefor to the superintendent on a
form provided by him for that purpose. Upon a permit being granted, the service
pipe shall be carried, at the expense of the applicant, to the inside of the
curb line, where a proper village cock with cast iron box shall be placed with
pipe leading to the surface and a faucet placed at the end thereof above said
surface. The faucet shall be kept covered and when not in use, locked. When the
building is completed, the faucet and pipe shall be taken up as far as said
village cock and the water shut off at that point. All connections and branches
and plumbing and plumbing work fixtures in any manner joined or attached
thereto shall at all times be kept in good repair and protected from damage and
injury at the expense of the applicant or person or corporation using the same.
This shall not be construed to prevent the person being responsible hereunder
for the branches and all plumbing and plumbing work and fixtures connected
therewith.
   B.   Use By Other Persons: No person other than the one paying for the use
of the water through any such connections, including the family of such person,
shall take or use any water passing through such connection. It shall be
unlawful for such person so paying for such water to suffer or permit any other
person or corporation to take or use water unless first permitted to do so by
the superintendent. This subsection shall not apply to persons taking and
immediately drinking such water.
   C.   Permission To Turn On; Temporary Use: No water shall be turned into a
connection, except when meters are used, until the applicant shall have paid
the rent or rate due. All plumbers are strictly prohibited from turning the
water into such connections unless first permitted to do so by the
superintendent. This shall not be construed to prevent any plumber admitting
the water temporarily to test the pipes and plumbing work for which purpose
only said water may be turned on.
   D.   Waste Of Water: No water shall be permitted to run through any hydrant,
tap, hose, plumbing or plumbing work or fixture of any kind when the same is
not in use. (1999 Code § 16.08)
7-2-7: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR:
   A.   Persons taking village water shall do so at their own expense and must
keep all pipes, stopcocks and fixtures in good repair. The buffalo or shutoff
box, connections, village cock, valves and service pipes shall be furnished,
installed and maintained, in perpetuity, by and at the expense of the customer,
as shall all labor for trenching, pushing or backfilling from the buffalo or
shutoff box to premises being served. No reduction from any water bill shall be
made on account of any leak in any pipes or fixtures. All repairs for or
replacement of the buffalo or shutoff box to the premises being served shall be
made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises served. The village
may, in case of emergency, repair any service pipes and assess the cost of such
repair against the owner of the premises served.
   B.   In the event that any water meter or service pipe becomes frozen
between the curb stop and the premises, it shall be thawed at the expense of
the property owner. Should the village be required to perform thawing of a
frozen water meter or service pipe located between the curb stop and the
premises, the property owner shall reimburse the village the actual expenses
for the time and material incurred in the repair, but in no case shall said
charge be less than fifty dollars ($50.00). Any charges levied under this
section are subject to the payment and delinquency provisions of section
7-2-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-09, 9-25-2008)
7-2-8: OBSTRUCTION, INJURY TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Obstruction Of Hydrants And Faucets: No person shall in any manner
obstruct the access to any drain, cock, hydrant or valve or any public faucet
or opening in any street, avenue, alley, public ground or place connected with
or a part of said system or plant, nor pile or place any lumber, brick or
building material or other article, thing or hindrance whatsoever so as to in
any manner interfere with said access.
   B.   Interference With, Obstructing Water Or System: It shall be unlawful
for any person or corporation to in any manner interfere with or obstruct the
flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water in the water system or
plant, or to interfere with or obstruct in any manner the supply or source of
supply of such water or to pollute in any manner such water or the sources of
supply or to throw or place therein or mix therewith any foreign substance
whatsoever, or cause, suffer or permit the same to be done.
   C.   Injury, Damage To System: It shall be unlawful for any person or
corporation to injure, break, mar, deface, tear down, remove or displace, in
whole or in part, any water main, hydrant, fountain, valve, engine or building
or any part thereof connected with the water system or plant or any part,
parcel, appurtenance or appliance of said system or plant. (1999 Code § 16.10)
7-2-9: AUTHORITY TO TURN OFF WATER UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   Fire Or Alarm Of Fire: If there is a fire or an alarm of fire, it shall
be the duty of every person or corporation responsible for the use of the water
or in charge or control thereof to immediately stop and shut off the flow of
such water until the fire has been extinguished or until it has been
ascertained that the alarm was false.
   B.   Impending Fire: In case of conflagration or grave calamity of fire
impending, the president of the board of trustees shall have the right and
authority, by proclamation posted in five (5) public places in the village, to
wholly suspend and prohibit, for such length of time as such exigency may
require, the drawing or using of water for public or private purposes other
than to meet such exigency.
   C.   Drought Or Other Urgency: Whenever, in the judgment of the president of
the board of trustees, public exigency may require it, he shall have the right
and authority, by proclamation published in some newspaper printed in the
village or by posting such proclamation five (5) public places therein, to
limit in respect of time or wholly suspend or prohibit for such length of time
as such exigency shall require, the drawing or using of water for public or
private fountains, for street or yard sprinkling, for washing houses, windows,
verandas or vehicles or for any other purpose except for immediate domestic
use, and it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to draw or use any
water in violation of such proclamation. (1999 Code § 16.11)
7-2-10: BILLS FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bills; Due Date; Late Payment: Water and sewer service
charges shall be billed on a quarterly basis. Bills shall be mailed on or about
February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1, and payments shall be due thirty
(30) days after the date of such bill. If payment of the entire amount of said
bill for water and/or sewer service charges is not received by the village on
or before the thirtieth day after the billing date, then a late payment penalty
of ten percent (10%) of the current balance of the bill shall be added thereto
and become due and payable.
   B.   Liability For Payment: The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay
for such service to such premises, and such service is furnished to the
premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises
is liable therefor to the village. (1999 Code § 16.15)
   C.   Delinquent Payments A Lien: In the event the water and/or sewer user
service charges, including any penalty then due, are not paid within fifty (50)
days after the date of such billing, such charges and penalty shall be deemed
and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and thereafter, the village may file
a statement of lien claim with the county recorder of deeds. This statement of
lien claim shall include the legal description of the property to which water/
sewer service was provided, the amount of the unpaid user service charges and
penalty, and a notice that the village claims a lien for the stated amount as
well as for all water and sewer user charges and penalties subsequent to the
period for which the bill was rendered. The failure of the village to record
the lien with the county recorder of deeds, or to mail the notice of
delinquency and lien to the owner of the property, or failure of the owner to
receive such notice shall not affect the right of the village to foreclose the
lien for unpaid bills as mentioned herein. (1999 Code § 16.15)
   D.   Foreclosure: Property subject to a lien for unpaid water and/or sewer
user service charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds
of the sale shall be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is
the case in the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by
bill in equity in the name of the village. The village attorney is hereby
authorized and directed to institute such proceedings in the name of the
village in any court having jurisdiction over such matters against any property
for which the bill has remained unpaid forty five (45) days after it has been
rendered. (1999 Code § 16.15)
   E.   Discontinuance Of Service; Reinstatement Fee; Restoration Of Service:
If the water and/or sewer user service charges, including any penalty then due,
are not paid in full thirty (30) days after the date of billing, then the
village shall send notice to the owner of the premises that water service shall
be discontinued twenty (20) days after the date of such notice and shall not be
reinstated until all past due bills, including the penalties thereon, are paid
in full. Notice shall be posted at the delinquent address of service a minimum
of ten (10) days prior to the disconnection date, stating the disconnection
date and the amount due which includes a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
reinstating such services. If the amount has not been paid in full by the date
stated on said notice, the service shall be disconnected and not reinstated
until the amount due is paid in full. No village employee shall have the
authority to extend the discontinuance of service beyond the twenty (20) day
notice provided in this subsection and no further extension shall so be
granted. It shall be the responsibility of any party requesting the restoration
of water service to pay all fees, deposits, and delinquent charges attributable
to the property for which water service is provided. When the ownership of
property is transferred to a new owner, it shall be the responsibility of the
new owner to pay all fees, deposits, and delinquent charges prior to water and
sewer service being turned on or otherwise restored to the property. Water
service shall not be turned on or otherwise restored to any property until all
fees, deposits, and delinquent charges have been paid in full.
   F.   Water Use Rates: The following quarterly water use rates billed every
three (3) months are hereby established for water use:
Residential rate:
$75.061 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$2.76 per 1,000 gallons over 6,000 gallons
Commercial rate:
$75.061 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$2.76 per 1,000 gallons from 6,001 to 25,000 gallons
$2.87 per 1,000 gallons from 25,001 to 75,000 gallons
$2.92 per 1,000 gallons over 75,000 gallons
Industrial rate:
$97.381 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$4.17 per 1,000 gallons from 6,001 to 25,000 gallons
$4.60 per 1,000 gallons from 25,001 to 100,000 gallons
$5.04 per 1,000 gallons from 100,001 to 500,000 gallons
$5.47 per 1,000 gallons from 500,001 to 1,000,000 gallons
$5.90 per 1,000 gallons over 1,000,000 gallons
Out of town rate:
Shall be 2 times the established rates for residential, commercial, or
industrial zoned properties
Water/sewer infrastructure repairs/maintenance fee:
Beginning with the August 1, 2023 billing cycle and continuing until the end of
the July 31, 2025 billing cycle, an additional fee of $8.00 per month or $24.00
per billing cycle will be charged for the purpose of maintaining/repairing
existing water/sewer infrastructure. This fee will appear on the bills as a
separate charge titled "INFS" said funds will be deposited monthly in a
separate bank account established for this purpose.
   G.   Minimum Charge: Notwithstanding the rates specified in subsection F of
this section, any property receiving water service shall be subject to a
minimum charge equivalent to the use of six thousand (6,000) gallons per
billing cycle, regardless of actual use and without regard to whether the
building is then occupied.
(Ord. 2009-01, 2-10-2009; amd. Ord. 2012-06, 1-10-2012; Ord. 2012-07, 1-10-
2012; Ord. 2012-10, 3-13-2012; Ord. 2013-07, 7-9-2013; Ord. 2015-01, 1-13-2015;
Ord. 2015-09, 7-14-2015; Ord. 2017-08, 7-18-2017; Ord. 2019-05, 7-29-2019; Ord.
2019-07, 11-12-2019; Ord. 2021-13, 10-20-2021; Ord. 2023-07, 7-11-2023)
7-2-11: PRIVATE WATER WELLS:
   A.   Prohibited Within Certain Distance To Public System: No water well
shall be drilled, constructed, sunk, maintained or operated on any parcel of
land within the corporate limits of the Village if a water main constituting
part of the Village public water supply system is within four hundred feet
(400') of the nearest property line of the property upon which such well would
be drilled, constructed, sunk or otherwise provided and/or to which the well
would provide service.
   B.   Existing Wells: Nothing herein shall prohibit the operation and
maintenance of wells constructed and in operation prior to January 1, 1998;
except, that all such wells shall be operated and maintained in accordance with
all applicable Federal, State, County and local laws, ordinances and
regulations. (1999 Code § 16.14; amd. 2005 Code)
7-2-12: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections And Approval Of Plumbing Work: All plumbing and plumbing
work shall be done subject to the approval of the Superintendent, and no work
underground shall be covered up until examined by him or some person under his
direction.
   B.   Access To Premises: The Superintendent and such person authorized by
him shall be permitted to enter and have free access at all reasonable hours to
buildings, premises or places containing any such connections, branches,
plumbing or plumbing work in any manner or way connected with the system or
plant to ascertain the location and condition thereof and all fixtures
connected therewith.
   C.   Notice Of Violations; Shutoff Of Water: If, upon such inspection or
otherwise, it is found that, on account of negligence or for want of repairs,
there is a waste of water in the connections, branches, plumbing or plumbing
work, and the owner or person in charge or possession thereof fails to have
such defects immediately remedied and such waste stopped, it shall be the duty
of the Superintendent or some person directed by him to leave a notice of such
waste of water at the premises with some person in possession thereof, or if no
one is found in possession, by posting the same upon such premises. If the
defects are not remedied and the waste stopped within twenty four (24) hours
after giving or posting the notice, the water shall be shut off and shall not
again be turned on until the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) in addition to all
rents due has been paid to the Village. (1999 Code § 16.06)
7-2-13: PLUMBER'S RETURN TO WORK REPORT:
It shall be the duty of all plumbers to make a return in writing to the
Superintendent showing in detail all plumbing and plumbing work, including
repairs, done or installed by them in the village connected with the water
system or plant, and the number and size of all openings therein through which
water can be taken. When any connection or branch is put in hereunder, it shall
be the duty of the plumber doing or installing the plumbing or plumbing work
connected therewith to make said return before the water is turned on and
permitted to enter such connection or branches, and it shall be unlawful to
turn on such water until such return is made. Any plumber failing or refusing
to make any such return within five (5) days after the completion of such work,
or making misrepresentations therein, shall not thereafter be permitted to act
as a plumber or do plumbing work in the village. (1999 Code § 16.06)
7-2-14: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
All connections and water applied for hereunder and all the water used
hereunder shall be upon the express condition that the village shall not be
liable, nor will any claim be made against the village, for damage or injury
caused by reason of the breaking of any main, connections, branches, service
pipe or apparatus or appurtenances connected therewith, any part or portion of
said system or plant, for any interruption of the supply, by reason of the
breakage of machinery or by reason of stoppage for repairs, alterations or
extensions or renewals. (1999 Code § 16.09)
7-2-15: CHANGES, ALTERATIONS TO PROVISIONS:
Nothing herein shall prevent the village from changing or altering the
provisions hereof, and the village shall have and retain authority from time to
time to alter, change, increase, decrease or improve said system and plant, or
any portion thereof, or to establish or prescribe new or different rates,
rents, regulations or provisions concerning the use of the water or water
system or plant or to change the source of supply or to alter, amend, change or
repeal the provisions of this chapter. (1999 Code § 16.12)
7-2-16: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Report Of Violations; Enforcement: It shall be the duty of every
village officer to immediately report to the superintendent, upon discovery,
any or all violations of this chapter or any part thereof, and the
superintendent shall thereupon see that the provisions hereof are enforced.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to a fine or penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense and a like fine or penalty for each day
such violation continues unless specified otherwise herein. (1999 Code § 16.16;
amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2A-1: Definitions
7-2A-2: Compliance With Existing Laws
7-2A-3: Cross Connections Prohibited
7-2A-4: Local Cross Connection Control Program
7-2A-5: Corrections And Protective Devices
7-2A-6: Piping Identification
7-2A-7: Private Water Storage Tanks
7-2A-8: Elimination Of Existing Cross Connections
7-2A-9: Inspections
7-2A-10: Violations; Discontinuance Of Water Service
7-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article the following definitions shall apply:
   BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
   CROSS CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenance
through which a backflow could occur.
   SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the
inside diameter of the water inlet pipe; but shall not be less than one inch
(1") and need not be more than twelve inches (12").
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed or exposed to
any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage facility.
   SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   WATER UTILITY: The village of Waterman water department. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-
1981; amd. 2005 Code)
7-2A-2: COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS:
A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with existing laws
and rules and the provisions of the ordinances of the village of Waterman and
Illinois state plumbing code. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
Cross connection of the public water supply system and any other water supply
system or source including, but not limited to, the following is prohibited:
   A.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
   B.   By submerged inlet.
   C.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system.
   D.   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
   E.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-4: LOCAL CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
The village shall develop a comprehensive control program for the elimination
and prevention of all cross connections, and removal of all existing cross
connections and prevention of all future cross connections. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-
1981)
7-2A-5: CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES:
Any user of Waterman water shall obtain written approval from the water
department of any proposed corrective action or protective device before using
or installing it. The total time allowed for completion of the necessary
corrections shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include
the time required to obtain and install equipment. If the cross connection has
not been removed within the time as hereinafter specified, the village shall
physically separate the Waterman water supply from the on site piping system in
such manner that the two (2) systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized
person. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-6: PIPING IDENTIFICATION:
When a secondary water source is used in addition to the Waterman water supply,
exposed Waterman water and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety, it will be necessary to protect the Waterman water
supply at the service connection in a manner acceptable to the water
department. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-7: PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS:
A private water storage tank supplied from the Waterman water supply system
shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-8: ELIMINATION OF EXISTING CROSS CONNECTIONS:
Within one year from the effective date hereof, all existing cross connections
to the Waterman water supply system shall be eliminated. The expenses of such
elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on which such cross
connection exists. (Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-9: INSPECTIONS:
The water department of the village or any representative thereof shall have
the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of an existing
cross connection and to order the elimination of such cross connection. (Ord.
82-1, 12-7-1981)
7-2A-10: VIOLATIONS; DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
The water department is hereby authorized to discontinue water service after a
reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a cross connection in
violation of this article exists. The water department may take such other
precautionary measures as necessary to eliminate any danger of the
contamination of the Waterman water supply system. Water service to such
property shall not be restored until such cross connection has been eliminated.
(Ord. 82-1, 12-7-1981)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
7-3-4: Building Sewers And Connections
7-3-5: Discharges Into Public System
7-3-6: Interceptors
7-3-7: Pretreatment
7-3-8: Control Manhole
7-3-9: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
7-3-10: Special Agreements
7-3-11: Protection Of System From Damage
7-3-12: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-3-13: Violation; Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the U.S. environmental protection
agency.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY: The superintendent of the department of public works.
   BASIC USER CHARGE: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A charge levied on all users to improve, extend
or reconstruct the village wastewater facilities.
   COMBINED SEWER: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   COMMERCIAL USER: Shall include transit lodging, retail and wholesale
establishments or places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of loan, bond, etc., outstanding.
   DIRECTOR: The director of the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EFFLUENT CRITERIA: Are as defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   FEDERAL ACT: The federal clean water act (33 USC 466 et seq.) as amended,
(pub. l. 95-217).
   FEDERAL GRANT: The U.S. government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided by title II grants for construction
of treatment works of the act and implementing regulations.
   FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable oil if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS: Shall include establishments engaged in manufacturing
activities involving the mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or
substance into products.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process, or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER: Shall include schools, churches, penal
institutions and users associated with federal, state and local governments.
   LOCAL CAPITAL COST CHARGE: Charge for costs other than the operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, i.e., debt service and capital improvements
costs.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY: An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work
day; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the federal act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuing authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   MAY: Permissible.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 gram of the constituent in one thousand (1,000)
milliliters of water. It has replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts
per million, to which it is approximately equivalent, in reporting the results
of water and wastewater analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the administrator or, where appropriate, by the director, after enactment of
the federal clean water act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to
section 402 of the federal act.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   POPULATION EQUIVALENT: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
   PRETREATMENT: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the village
sanitary system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed with
village funds.
   REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement".
   RESIDENTIAL USER: All dwelling units such as houses, mobile homes,
apartments, and permanent multi-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes, or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   SEWER: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
   SEWERAGE: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   SEWERAGE FUND: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   SHALL: Mandatory.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STATE ACT: The Illinois antipollution bond act of 1970 1 .
   STATE GRANT: The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois antipollution
bond act and for making such grants as filed with the secretary of state of the
state of Illinois.
   STORM SEWER: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
   SURCHARGE: The assessment, in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge, which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in chapter 3, article A of
this title.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or industrial waste and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of "suspended solids"
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of
Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USEFUL LIFE: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated.
   USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement.
   USER CLASS: The type of user, residential, institutional/governmental,
commercial or industrial, as defined in this section.
   VILLAGE: The village of Waterman.
   WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course,
it may be a combination of liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge per quarter levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
chapter 3, article A of this title and shall consist of the total of the basic
user charge, the local capital cost and a surcharge, if applicable.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge; sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "pollution control plant".
   WATER QUALITY STANDARDS: Are as defined in the water pollution regulations
of Illinois.
   WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (1999 Code § 13.01; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 405/1 et seq.
7-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy 1 , privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all houses, buildings
or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other
purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley or right
of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any public
sanitary sewer of the village, is hereby required, at his expense, to install
suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly
with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that
said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') (30.5 meters) of the
property line. (1999 Code § 13.02)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection
  4-5-1H of this code.
7-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available under the provisions of section
7-3-2 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the superintendent of public works.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the village which the applicant shall supplement by
any plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
superintendent of public works.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be paid
to the village at the time the application is filed.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit Issuance: A permit for a private sewage
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the superintendent of public works. He shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent of public works when
the work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the
receipt of written notice by the superintendent of public works.
   C.   Construction Specifications 1 :
      1.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the state private
sewage disposal licensing act and code 2  and with the state environmental
protection agency.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet (2,790 square meters).
      3.   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   D.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system as provided in subsection
 7-3-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material. When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within sixty (60) days, and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank run gravel or
dirt.
   E.   Responsibility For Private System: The owner shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times and at
no expense to the village.
   F.   Other Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the county health officer. (1999 Code § 13.03)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1D-2 of this code, amendment to section 305.6.1.
2 2. 225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.
7-3-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connection with, or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
superintendent of public works.
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential wastewater service; and b) for
commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial wastewater service. In
either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the superintendent of public works.
      3.   Fee: A permit and inspection fee, in an amount set by the village
board for a residential or commercial building sewer permit, shall be paid to
the village at the time the application is filed.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit:
         a.   The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must
provide information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and
type of activity.
         b.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer
connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream
sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   B.   Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except, that where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
   C.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and
testing by the superintendent of public works, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
   D.   Construction Specifications 1 :
      1.   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing codes 2  or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual Of Practice No. 9" and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main
Construction In Illinois" shall apply.
      2.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by a means which
is approved in accordance with subsection
7-3-3B of this chapter and discharged to the building sewer.
   E.   Connections To System: The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
codes 3  or other applicable rules and regulations of the village or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, "Water Pollution Control Federal Manual Of Practice No. 9"
and "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois". All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
superintendent of public works before installation.
   F.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
   G.   Discharges Into System:
      1.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with the federal standards promulgated pursuant
to the federal act and more stringent state and local standards.
      2.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (1999 Code § 13.04)
   H.   Maintenance And Repair: Users of the village sewer system shall be
responsible for the clean out of any obstruction in the sanitary sewer,
including tree roots, from their structure being served by the sewer to the
main sewer line. Users of the village sewer system shall also be responsible
for the repair of any collapsed sanitary sewer pipe from the structure being
served by the sanitary sewer to the property line of such user. The village
shall be responsible for the repair of any collapsed sanitary sewer pipe from
the property line of the user to the main sewer line. (1999 Code § 13.10)
   I.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the superintendent of public works when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the superintendent of public works or his
representative.
   J.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incidental to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(1999 Code § 13.04)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1D-2 of this code, amendment to section 305.6.1.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 1, articles A and D, respectively, of this code.
3 3. See title 8, chapter 1, articles A and D, respectively, of this code.
7-3-5: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
   A.   Storm And Surface Water Runoff; Storm And Combined Sewers:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
      2.   Storm water and other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the superintendent of public works. Industrial cooling water
or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, on approval of the
superintendent of public works, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the superintendent of public works, that such wastes can harm either
the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on
the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the superintendent of public works will give consideration to such
factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities
in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage
treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits
established by regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         a.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F)(65°C).
         b.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter
(100 mg/l) or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between thirty two and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32
and 150°F)(0 and 65°C).
         c.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the superintendent of public works.
         d.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution, whether neutralized or not.
         e.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the superintendent of public works for such materials.
         f.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the superintendent of public works as necessary after treatment
of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or
other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving
waters.
         g.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent of public
works in compliance with state or federal regulations.
         h.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
         i.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005
milligrams per liter as Hg at any time except as permitted by the
superintendent of public works in compliance with applicable state and federal
regulations.
         j.   Any cyanide in excess of zero milligrams per liter at any time
except as permitted by the superintendent of public works in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations.
         k.   Materials which exert or cause:
            (1)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            (2)   Excess discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
            (3)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
            (4)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting "slugs" as defined in section
7-3-1 of this chapter.
         l.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to receiving waters.
      2.   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection C1 of this section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June
26, 1978, and any amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the
superintendent of public works, may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the superintendent of public
works may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         d.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of section
7-3-10 of this chapter.
      3.   If the superintendent of public works permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent of
public works and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-6: INTERCEPTORS:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
superintendent of public works, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes,
sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the superintendent of public works and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-7: PRETREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-8: CONTROL MANHOLE:
Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole, and when required
by the superintendent of public works, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the
superintendent of public works. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible at
all times. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-9: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   B.   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be performed
by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but not less than once per
year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the
wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state and
local standards is being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   C.   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of IEPA Division of Laboratories Manual of
Laboratory Methods and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or
upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a twenty four (24) hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls,
whereas pHs are determined from periodic grab samples. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-10: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the village and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance with
chapter 3, article A of this title, by the industrial concern, provided such
payments are in accordance with the federal and state guidelines for user
charge system. (1999 Code § 13.05)
7-3-11: PROTECTION OF SYSTEM FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this section shall be
subject to immediate arrest under the charge of disorderly conduct. (1999 Code
§ 13.06)
7-3-12: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entry Powers; Limitations On Requested Information:
      1.   The superintendent of public works and other duly authorized
employees of the village, the Illinois environmental protection agency and the
U.S. environmental protection agency, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. The superintendent of public works or his
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries,
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   The superintendent of public works and other duly authorized
employees of the village, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall
be permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Safety Precautions: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A of this section, the superintendent of
public works or duly authorized employees of the village, the Illinois
environmental protection agency and the U.S. environmental protection agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against
liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain conditions as required in section
7-3-8 of this chapter. (1999 Code § 13.07)
7-3-13: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Time For Compliance: Any person found violating
any provision of this chapter, except section
7-3-11, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter. (1999
Code § 13.08)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. Each day on which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense. (1999 Code § 13.08; amd. 2005
Code)
   D.   Liability For Violations: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(1999 Code § 13.08)
ARTICLE A. WASTEWATER SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES 1
SECTION:
7-3A-1: Basis For Wastewater Service Charges
7-3A-2: Measurement Of Flow
7-3A-3: Rates And Charges Established
7-3A-4: Computation Of Charges
7-3A-5: Review Of Charges; Revisions
7-3A-6: Revenues
7-3A-7: Accounting
7-3A-8: Notice Of Rates And Charges
7-3A-9: Access To Records
7-3A-10: Appeals
7-3A-11: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-2-10 of this title for bills and delinquent accounts.
7-3A-1: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance, plus replacement, applicable surcharges and local
capital cost charge composed of a debt service charge and a capital improvement
charge.
   A.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge is computed by dividing
the annual debt service of all outstanding loans, bonds, etc., by the number of
users. Through further divisions, the monthly debt service charges can be
computed.
   B.   Capital Improvement Charge: The capital improvement charge is levied on
all users to provide for capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of
the sewage treatment works. The capital improvement charge is computed by
apportioning the annual amount to be accrued as a fixed charge per month.
   C.   Basic User Charge:
      1.   The basic user charge shall be levied on all users for wastes having
the following normal domestic concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of two hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l).
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l).
      2.   The basic user charge shall consist of operation and maintenance
costs, plus replacement, and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         b.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund, for the year,
for all works categories.
         c.   Proportion the estimated operation, maintenance and replacement
(OM&R) costs to each user class by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         d.   Proportion the estimated OM&R costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per pound per one thousand (1,000)
gallons in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   D.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied on all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations for BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (250 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage for all wastes which exceed the two
hundred milligrams per liter (200 mg/l) and two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (250 mg/l) concentration for BOD and SS, respectively. Subsection
7-3A-4B of this article specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge. (1999
Code § 13.09)
7-3A-2: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
The volume of flow used for computing basic user charges and surcharges shall
be based on an estimated flow of nine thousand (9,000) gallons per month for
each residential user. All other users shall be billed proportionally in
accordance with their anticipated wastewater flow volume and strength as
approved by the Village Board.
   A.   Types Of Measuring Devices:
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of his water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by
the Superintendent of Public Works for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Superintendent of Public Works if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined.
   B.   Installation And Maintenance Of Measuring Devices; Removal Restricted:
Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned
and maintained by the person. Following approval and installation, such meters
may not be removed, unless service is canceled, without the consent of the
Superintendent of Public Works. (1999 Code § 13.09)
7-3A-3: RATES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Local Capital Cost Charge:
      1.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge of zero dollars ($0.00)
per month, to each user of the wastewater facility of the Village is hereby
established.
      2.   Capital Improvement Charge: A capital improvement charge will be
levied on all users as a fixed charge of five dollars seventy three cents
($5.73) per month (for a typical residential user) to provide funds for
extension, improvement or reconstruction of the sewage treatment works.
   B.   Basic User Rate: There shall be and there is hereby established a basic
user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater facilities
of the Village:
      1.   Minimum Flat Rate: All nonmetered residential users of the
wastewater facilities shall pay a minimum flat rate charge per month adequate
to cover the costs of the minimum accrual capital cost charge, the minimum
service charge and the basic user rate. The flat rate charge will be six
dollars twenty seven cents ($6.27) per month.
      2.   Metered Rate: In the event use of the wastewater facilities is
determined by the Superintendent of Public Works to be in excess of nine
thousand (9,000) gallons per month, the Superintendent of Public Works may
require such flat rate user to install metering devices on the water supply or
sewer main to measure the amount of service supplied.
   C.   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as
follows:
 
Per pound of BOD $1.01
Per pound of SS  0.82
 
(1999 Code § 13.09)
   D.   Sanitary Sewer Use Rates: The following quarterly sanitary sewer use
rates billed every three (3) months are hereby established for sanitary sewer
use.
      1.   Sewer Use Rates: The following quarterly sewer use rates billed
every three (3) months are hereby established for sewer use, to wit:
Residential rate:
$23.01 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$2.27 per 1,000 gallons over 6,000 gallons
Commercial rate:
$23.01 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$2.27 per 1,000 gallons from 6,001 to 19,000 gallons
$2.36 per 1,000 gallons from 19,001 to 50,000 gallons
$2.42 per 1,000 gallons over 50,000 gallons
Industrial rate:
$32.46 per quarter minimum base charge for first 6,000 gallons
$4.17 per 1,000 gallons from 6,001 to 19,000 gallons
$4.60 per 1,000 gallons from 19,001 to 75,000 gallons
$5.04 per 1,000 gallons from 75,001 to 400,000 gallons
$5.47 per 1,000 gallons from 400,001 to 500,000 gallons
$5.90 per 1,000 gallons over 500,000 gallons
(Ord. 2018-07, 12-11-2018)
7-3A-4: COMPUTATION OF CHARGES:
   A.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the Superintendent of
Public Works and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   B.   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge
shall be computed by the following formula:
      CW = CC + CD + CM + (Vu-X)CU + CS
Where CW = Amount of waste service charge ($) per billing period
     CD = Debt service charge (subsection
           7-3A-3A1 of this article)
     CC = Capital improvement charge (subsection
           7-3A-3A2 of this article)
           Minimum charge for operation, maintenance and replacement
     CM = (subsection
           7-3A-3B of this article)
     Vu = Wastewater volume for the billing period
     X  = Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (subsection
           7-3A-3B of this article)
           Basic user rate for operation, maintenance and replacement
     CU = (subsection
           7-3A-3B of this article)
     CS = Amount of surcharge (this section)
 
Example for typical residential user:
Monthly bill = $5.73 + $0 + $6.27 + $0 + $0 = $12.00
(1999 Code § 13.09)
7-3A-5: REVIEW OF CHARGES; REVISIONS:
The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed, not less often
than annually, by certified public accountants for the Village in their annual
audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to
reflect a change in local capital costs or a change in operation and
maintenance costs including replacement costs. (1999 Code § 13.09)
7-3A-6: REVENUES:
   A.   All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All
such revenues and monies shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and
apart from all other funds of the Village, and all of said sum, without any
deductions whatsoever, shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more
than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent
intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees. (1999 Code § 13.10)
   B.   The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewerage
system and all other funds and monies incidental to the operation of such
system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account
of the fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the Village of Waterman". The
Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in the manner provided by
statute. (1999 Code § 13.10; amd. 2005 Code)
7-3A-7: ACCOUNTING:
   A.   System Of Accounts: The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular intervals, he shall cause to be made an audit
by an independent auditing concern, of the books to show the receipt and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   Annual Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements,
the annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses
of the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that
sewer service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do, in fact,
meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users.
      6.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of wastes discharged. (1999 Code § 13.10)
7-3A-8: NOTICE OF RATES AND CHARGES:
Each user will be notified by the Village in conjunction with a regular bill,
of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem taxes which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services, including the financial
information of subsection
7-3A-7B of this article. (1999 Code § 13.10)
7-3A-9: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The IEPA or its authorized representative shall have access to any books,
documents, papers and records of the Village which are applicable to the
Village system of user charges or industrial cost recovery for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State
grant and/or Federal regulations and conditions of the Federal grant. (1999
Code § 13.10)
7-3A-10: APPEALS:
The method for computation of rates and service charges established for user
charges in sections
7-3A-3 and
7-3A-4 of this article shall be made available to a user within ten (10) days
of receipt of a written request for such. Any disagreement over the method used
or in the computations thereof shall be remedied by the Village Board within
thirty (30) days after notification of a formal written appeal outlining the
discrepancies. (1999 Code § 13.11)
7-3A-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (1999 Code § 13.10; amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PAYMENT OF CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE FEES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Annual Service Provider Fee
7-4-2: Payment Due
7-4-3: Calculation Of Service Provider Fee
7-4-1: ANNUAL SERVICE PROVIDER FEE:
Mediacom Illinois LLC shall pay an annual service provider fee to the village
in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of annual gross revenues derived from
the provision of cable or video service to households located within the
village. The twelve (12) month period for the computation of the service
provider fee shall be a calendar year. (Ord. 2015-06, 5-12-2015)
7-4-2: PAYMENT DUE:
The service provider fee payment shall be due quarterly and payable within
forty five (45) days after the close of the quarter. Each payment shall be
accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative of the grantee
showing the basis for the computation. If mailed, the fee shall be considered
paid on the date it is postmarked. (Ord. 2015-06, 5-12-2015)
7-4-3: CALCULATION OF SERVICE PROVIDER FEE:
   A.   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, "gross
revenues" shall mean consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by
Mediacom Illinois LLC for the operation of its cable system to provide cable or
video service within the city, including the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable service or video service;
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges;
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges;
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges; and
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
   B.   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, "gross
revenues" shall not include:
      1.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt;
      2.   The service provider fee or any tax, fee or assessment of general
applicability;
      3.   Any revenues received from services not classified as cable service
or video service, including, without limitation, revenue received from
telecommunications services, voice over internet protocol (VoIP) services,
information services, the provision of directory or internet advertising, or
any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service or nonvideo
service in accordance with the holder's books and records and records kept in
the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards, or orders;
      4.   Security deposits collected from subscribers; or
      5.   Any amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service. (Ord. 2015-06, 5-12-2015)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Codes   1
Building Code   1A
Electrical Codes   1B
Mechanical Code   1C
Plumbing Codes   1D
Energy Conservation Code   1E
Fuel Gas Code   1F
Fire Code   1G
One- And Two-Family Dwelling Code   1H
Property Maintenance Code   1I
Swimming Pool And Spa Code   1J
General Building Regulations   2
Signs   3
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Copies Of Codes
8-1-2: General Amendments To Adopted Codes
8-1-1: COPIES OF CODES:
A total of three (3) copies of each of the codes adopted in this chapter shall
be maintained on file as follows: one copy in the office of the village clerk,
one copy in the public library, and one copy in the office of the zoning
official of the village. (1999 Code § 14.01.01)
8-1-2: GENERAL AMENDMENTS TO ADOPTED CODES:
The following amendments shall supersede all administrative provisions in the
adopted codes where applicable:
   A.   Permit Fees: The schedule of building permit fees is stated in section
8-2-1 of this title, as amended from time to time.
   B.   Refunds: The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows:
      1.   The full amount of any fee paid hereunder which was erroneously paid
or collected.
      2.   Not more than one hundred percent (100%) of the permit fee paid when
no work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
      3.   No part of the plan review fee paid shall be refunded when the plan
review has been completed and the application for permit is withdrawn. The code
official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except upon written
application filed by the original permittee not later than one hundred eighty
(180) days after the date of fee payment.
   C.   Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance: Any person who commences any
work on a building, structure, or electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing
system before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to one hundred
percent (100%) of the usual permit fee in addition to the required permit fee.
   D.   Application For Appeal: A person shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the building official to the building board of appeals. The
application shall be filed on a form obtained from the village clerk within
thirty (30) days after the notice was served.
   E.   Building Board Of Appeals: See section
2-2-3 of this code for building board of appeals procedures.
   F.   Violations And Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any work
after having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that
person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall
be punished by a fine as prescribed in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that unauthorized work continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. (2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Code Adopted
8-1A-2: Amendments To Code
8-1A-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international building code, 2018 edition, including appendix chapters C,
H, I, and K, published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the building code of the village for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said international building code on file in
the office of the village are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this article, with the specific revisions
otherwise noted in section
8-1A-2  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.02) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1A-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international building code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised and amended in words and figures as follow:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the building code of
the village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, hereinafter referred to as
"this code".
Section 101.4.3 Plumbing. The provisions of the Illinois plumbing code, 68 Ill.
Admin. Code 890.110 et seq. shall apply to the installation, alterations,
repairs and replacement of plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings and appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage
system and all aspects of a medical gas system. The provisions of the Illinois
plumbing code shall apply to private sewage disposal systems.
Section 101.4.6 Energy. The provisions of the Illinois energy conservation
code, 71 Ill. Admin. Code 600.100 et seq., shall apply to all matters governing
the design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency.
Section 103.2 Appointment. The building official shall be appointed by the
chief appointing authority of the jurisdiction. In this and in all referenced
codes and standards, "building official" is the same as "code official".
(1999 Code § 14.02.01; amd. 2005 Code)
Section 105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. In the list of exempt items, under
building, number 2, replace "Fences not over 7 feet (1829 mm) high" with
"Fences not over 2.9 feet (884 mm) high".
Section 312.1 General. In the list of items that shall include, but not be
limited to, replace "Fences more than 7 feet (1829 mm) high" with "Fences more
than 2.9 feet (884 mm) high".
Section 1101.1 Scope. The provisions of the Illinois accessibility code shall
control the design and construction of facilities for accessibility for
individuals with disabilities.
Sections 1102 through 1111 shall be deleted in their entirety.
Section 1612.3 Establishment of flood hazard areas 1 . There are no established
flood hazard areas in the village of Waterman. Any future annexations will be
checked with the flood hazard map as identified by the federal emergency
management agency in an engineering report entitled: "The Flood Insurance Study
For Incorporated And Unincorporated DeKalb County," map number 170 37C 0120 D
published September 21, 2000, as amended or revised with the accompanying flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) and
related supporting data along with any revisions thereto. This flood hazard map
and supporting data are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of
this section.
Appendix H Signs: All size (height and area) and setback specifications in this
appendix are superseded by those stated in the Waterman village code, title 8,
chapter 3, "Signs".
(1999 Code § 14.02.01; amd. 2005 Code) (Ord. 2006-02, 2-14-2006; Ord. 2019-06,
9-10-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11 of the village code.
ARTICLE B. ELECTRICAL CODES
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Codes Adopted
8-1B-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The IBC Appendix K, administrative provisions, 2018 edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., with the specific revisions otherwise noted,
and the national electrical code, 2017, (NFPA 70), published by the National
Fire Protection Association, with the specific revisions otherwise noted, are
hereby adopted as the electrical codes of the village for regulating the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
electrical systems in the village, and providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such IBC electrical code, administrative provisions,
2018 edition, and the national electrical code, 2017, (NFPA 70), on file in the
office of the village, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set out in this article. (1999 Code § 14.03) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-
10-2019)
ARTICLE C. MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
8-1C-1: Code Adopted
8-1C-2: Amendments To Code
8-1C-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international mechanical code, 2018 edition, including appendix chapter A,
published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the
mechanical code of the village for regulating the design, construction, quality
of materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems in the
village, and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms
of such international mechanical code, 2018 edition, on file in the office of
the village, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully
set out in this article, with the specific revisions otherwise noted in section
8-1C-2  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.04) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1C-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international mechanical code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised and amended in words and figures as follow:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the mechanical code of
the village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall be cited as such
and will be referred to hereinafter as "this code".
(1999 Code § 14.04.01; amd. 2005 Code) (Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE D. PLUMBING CODES
SECTION:
8-1D-1: Codes Adopted
8-1D-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The village acknowledges and affirms that the Illinois plumbing license law,
225 ILCS 320/0.01 et seq., and the Illinois plumbing code adopted thereunder,
77 Ill. Admin. Code 890.110 et seq., shall govern all plumbing work performed
within the city. The Illinois plumbing code is hereby adopted and incorporated
as if fully set forth herein. (1999 Code § 14.05) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-
2019)
ARTICLE E. ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
8-1E-1: Code Adopted
8-1E-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The village acknowledges and affirms that the Illinois energy efficient
building act, 20 ILCS 3125/1 et seq., and the Illinois energy conservation code
adopted thereunder, 71 Ill. Admin. Code 600.100 et seq., apply within the
village. The Illinois energy conservation code is hereby adopted and
incorporated as if fully set forth herein. (1999 Code § 14.06) (amd. Ord. 2019-
06, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE F. FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
8-1F-1: Code Adopted
8-1F-2: Amendments To Code
8-1F-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international fuel gas code, 2018 edition, published by the International
Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the fuel gas code of the village for
providing the minimum standards to safeguard life or limb, health, property and
public welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction,
installation, quality of materials, location, operation, and maintenance or use
of fuel gas systems, and providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of such international fuel gas code, 2018 edition, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
article, with the specific revisions otherwise noted in section
8-1F-2  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.07) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1F-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international fuel gas code, 2018 edition, are
hereby revised and amended in words and figures as follow:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the fuel gas code of
the village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall be cited as such
and will be referred to hereinafter as "this code".
(1999 Code § 14.07.01; amd. 2005 Code) (Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE G. FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-1G-1: Code Adopted
8-1G-2: Amendments To Code
8-1G-3: Storage Limits For Explosive And Flammable Materials
8-1G-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international fire code, 2018 edition, including appendix chapters C, D, E,
F, and G, as published by the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby
adopted as the fire code of the village for regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises in the village and providing for the issuance of permits for
hazardous uses or operations; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
conditions and terms of such international fire code, 2018 edition, on file in
the office of the village, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this article, with the specific revisions
otherwise noted in sections
8-1G-2  and
8-1G-3  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.08) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1G-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international fire code, 2018 edition, are hereby
revised and amended in words and figures as follow:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the fire code of the
village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall be cited as such and
shall hereinafter be referred to as "this code".
Section 113.4.1 Damage To Municipal Property. Persons who shall violate section
307.2.2, shall be liable for any and all damages and the costs of repairing any
damage to village of Waterman property.
Section 113.4.2 Court Costs And Legal Fees. In the event noncompliance with
this code necessitates litigation, any person who violates a provision of this
code shall be liable for court costs and reasonable attorney and other
professional fees incurred by the village of Waterman.
Add Section 307.2.2 Prohibited Materials. Combustible materials, other than
leaves, small twigs, and other small vegetation, are prohibited in an open
burn.
(1999 Code § 14.08.01; amd. 2005 Code) (Ord. 2012-26, 12-11-2012; Ord. 2019-06,
9-10-2019)
8-1G-3: STORAGE LIMITS FOR EXPLOSIVE AND FLAMMABLE MATERIALS:
The limits referred to in certain sections of the international fire code, 2018
edition, are hereby established as follow:
Section 5504.3.1.1.6 Location. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited in all zoning
districts except manufacturing and industrial.
Section 5704.2.9.6.1 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited. Storage
of class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is
prohibited in all zoning districts except manufacturing and industrial.
Section 5706.2.4.4 Locations Where Above-Ground Tanks Are Prohibited. The
storage of class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within
all zoning districts except manufacturing and industrial.
Section 6104.2 Maximum Capacity Within Established Limits. Within all zoning
districts except manufacturing and industrial the storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted for the protection of heavily populated or
congested areas, the aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not
exceed a water capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570 L). Exception remains the same.
(1999 Code § 14.08.02) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE H. ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING CODE
SECTION:
8-1H-1: Code Adopted
8-1H-2: Amendments To Code
8-1H-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international residential code for one- and two-family dwellings, 2018
edition, including appendix chapters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, and K as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as
the one- and two-family residential code of the village for regulating the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
one- and two-family dwellings and townhouses not more than three (3) stories in
height in the village and providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of such international residential code for one- and two-family
dwellings, 2018 edition, on file in the office of the village, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
article, with the specific revisions otherwise noted in section
8-1H-2  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.09) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1H-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international residential code for one- and two-
family dwellings, 2000 edition, are hereby revised and amended in words and
figures as follow:
Section R101.1 Title. These provisions shall be known as the residential code
for one- and two-family dwellings of the village of Waterman, DeKalb County,
Illinois, and shall be cited as such and will be referred to hereinafter as
"this code".
Section 105.2 Work Exempt From Permit. In the list of exempt items, under
building, number 2, replace “Fences not over 7 feet (1829 mm) high” with
“Fences not over 2.9 feet (884 mm) high”.
Table R301.2(1) Insert the following data into the table:
Ground snow load                          30 lbs/sq. ft.
Wind design (speed)                       115 mph
Wind design (topographic effects)         No
Seismic design category                   B
Subject to damage from (weathering)       Severe
Subject to damage from (frost line depth) 42" below grade
Subject to damage from (termite)          Moderate to heavy
Winter design temperature                 -5°F
Ice barrier underlayment required         Yes
Flood hazards                             No
Air freezing index                        2,000
Mean annual temperature                   48°F
Elevation                                 758
Latitude                                  42
Winter heating                            1
Summer cooling                            88°
Altitude correction factor                .98
Indoor design temperature                 72°F
Design temperature cooling                75°F
Heating temperature differential          (72)
Cooling temperature differential          15
Wind velocity heating                     15
Wind velocity cooling                     7 1/2
Coincident wet bulb                       74
Daily range                               M
Winter humidity                           40
Summer differential                       2.25
 
Section R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler systems,
shall only apply to two-family dwellings.
Delete Chapters 25 through 33, inclusive, in their entirety.
(1999 Code § 14.09.01; amd. 2005 Code) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
ARTICLE I. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
8-1I-1: Code Adopted
8-1I-2: Amendments To Code
8-1I-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international property maintenance code, 2018 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the property
maintenance code of the village for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of such international property maintenance code, 2018
edition, on file in the office of the village are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof by reference, as if fully set out in this article, with
the specific revisions otherwise noted in section
8-1I-2  of this article. (1999 Code § 14.10) (amd. Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1I-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the international property maintenance code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised and amended in words and figures as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the property
maintenance code of the village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall
be cited as such and will be hereinafter referred to as "this code".
Section 304.14 Insect Screens. Insert dates March 31 to October 31.
(1999 Code § 14.10; amd. 2005 Code)
Section 308.4 Placement For Collection. Garbage or "covered electronic device"
or "CED" as defined in 415 ILCS 150/10 (including televisions) placed at the
curb or the scheduled pickup of said garbage or electronics by the collection
service. Penalty for this offense shall be in accordance with section
1-4-1 , "General Penalty" of the village of Waterman municipal code.
Section 602.3 Heat Supply. "...to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall
supply heat during the period from October 1 to April 30 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, and
toilet rooms." (Rest of section remains the same.)
Section 602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat during the period from October 1 to April 30 to maintain a
temperature of not less than 65°F (18°C) during the period the spaces are
occupied. (No changes to exceptions.)
(1999 Code § 14.10; amd. 2005 Code) (Ord. 2014-07, 12-9-2014; Ord. 2019-06, 9-
10-2019)
ARTICLE J. SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
8-1J-1: Code Adopted
8-1J-2: Amendments To Code
8-1J-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international swimming pool and spa code, 2018 edition, published by the
International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the swimming pool and
spa code of the village for providing the minimum standards to provide a
reasonable level of safety and protection of health, property, and public
welfare by regulating and controlling the design, construction, installation,
quality of materials, location, and maintenance or use of pools and spas, and
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions, and terms of such
international swimming pool and spa code, 2018 edition, are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this article, with the
specific revisions otherwise noted in section
8-1J-2  of this article. (Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
8-1J-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following section of the international swimming pool and spa code, 2018
edition, are hereby revised and amended in words and figures as follows:
Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the swimming pool and
spa code of the village of Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, and shall be
cited as such and will be referred to hereinafter as “this code”.
(Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Permit Fees
8-2-2: Bond
8-2-3: Conduct Of Building Operations; Rubbish
8-2-4: Construction Hours
8-2-1: PERMIT FEES 1 :
A. Definitions:
   AGENCY: The building inspection company.
   EARLY START: Normally associated with footings and foundations, where a
contractor needs to pour concrete before final approval of the plans due to
weather conditions.
   MUNICIPALITY: The village of Waterman.
   USE CHANGE: The change in the classified use of a structure or premises.
(Ord. 2003-11, 10-2-2003; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Residential, Single-Family; Building Permit Fees: Refer to current fee
structure published annually by the village of Waterman.
   C.   Administrative Cost: In order to offset the cost of billing, filing,
and other administrative cost to the village, an amount of twenty-five percent
(25%), but not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), shall be added to the
total cost of each permit issued. (Ord. 2003-11, 10-2-2003; amd. 2005 Code;
Ord. 2009-08, 10-13-2009; Ord. 2015-11, 9-8-2015; Ord. 2019-06, 9-10-2019; Ord.
2022-03, 2-8-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-2 of this code for permit requirements.
8-2-2: BOND:
In the event any construction work for which a building permit is issued will
result in occupying or disturbing village streets, alleys, or sidewalks, a bond
shall be required, as described in section
6-2-2 of this code. (1999 Code § 14.12)
8-2-3: CONDUCT OF BUILDING OPERATIONS; RUBBISH 1 :
   A.   Storage On Public Ways Prohibited: No rubbish, shavings or loose
material of any description taken from buildings in the process of construction
or earth taken from excavations shall be stored upon the walks or roadways of
streets, but shall be removed from day to day as rapidly as produced.
   B.   Materials To Be Damp: When any materials or rubbish causing dust are to
be handled, they must be kept well wetted down.
   C.   Deposits From Upper Floors: No rubbish or surplus materials shall be
thrown, cast or swept from any floor above the ground floor, or from any roof,
but shall be either carried down or lowered in such manner as not to cause
dust, or shall be conveyed to the ground through dustproof chutes.
   D.   Public Not To Be Inconvenienced: All building operations shall be
conducted in such reasonable manner as will least inconvenience the public and
abutting property. (1999 Code § 14.13)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  6-1-6  of this code.
8-2-4: CONSTRUCTION HOURS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to conduct any construction operation, including
the delivery of equipment, supplies or materials, except between the hours of
seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) P.M., Monday through Friday,
and between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o’clock (8:00)
P.M. on Saturdays and Sundays. In cases of emergency, construction or repair
noises are exempt from this provision.
   B.   Failure to comply shall result in a penalty as outlined in the General
Penalty section:
1-4-1. (Ord. 2022-03, 2-8-2022)
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Scope
8-3-3: Definitions
8-3-4: Permit Requirements
8-3-5: Construction, Alteration And Maintenance; Compliance With Building And
Electrical Codes
8-3-6: Removal Of Certain Signs
8-3-7: Sight Distance Triangle
8-3-8: Prohibited Signs
8-3-9: Nonconforming Signs
8-3-10: Agricultural Signs
8-3-11: Residential Signs
8-3-12: Commercial And Industrial Signs
8-3-13: Other Signs
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate and control the location,
erection, number and maintenance of signs and matters relating thereto within
the village in order to promote the public safety, health, and general welfare
of the community. These regulations are specifically designed to:
   A.   Provide for uniform regulation and orderly development of signs
consistent with established ordinances of the village.
   B.   Prohibit hazardous and dangerous signs.
   C.   Provide a desirable and attractive living environment through
harmonious and uniform signage. (1999 Code § 19.01)
8-3-2: SCOPE:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall govern and control the erection,
alteration, and maintenance of all signs and outdoor display structures,
together with their appurtenant and auxiliary devices, with respect to
location, size, content, construction, structure, and fire safety.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      1.   Flags, symbols, or crests of nations, states, municipalities or
other governmental units or political, fraternal, religious, or civic
organizations, provided the number of such flags does not exceed four (4). One
flag displaying the name or logo of a company or business shall be allowed;
provided, that it is flown along with the American flag and shall not be larger
than said flag. These flags shall be flown in accordance with protocol
established by the congress of the United States for the stars and stripes.
      2.   Signs or other materials temporarily displayed in conjunction with
traditionally accepted patriotic, religious or local holidays or events, or
official government public notices.
      3.   The erection, construction, and maintenance of official traffic,
fire and police signs, signals and devices and markings of the nation, state,
county or municipality.
      4.   Nonluminous directional or informational signs of a public nature.
      5.   Residential garage sale signs not exceeding six (6) square feet and
located upon premises where the sale is taking place.
      6.   Real estate signs not exceeding six (6) square feet in area, which
advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon which said signs are
located only. These signs shall be removed within five (5) days following the
sale or lease of the property being advertised for sale or lease.
      7.   Bulletin boards not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in area,
for public, charitable, or religious institutions which are located on the
premises of said institutions.
      8.   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
noncombustible materials.
      9.   Identification/occupational signs not exceeding one square foot in
size.
      10.   Signs erected inside a building not visible through windows.
      11.   Name and address plates giving only the name and address of the
resident of the building for one- and two-family dwellings.
      12.   Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area giving warning,
e.g., beware of dog, no trespassing, or no dumping, and not to exceed four (4)
per lot, except the code official may permit additional such signs under proven
special circumstances. (1999 Code § 19.02)
8-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section except when the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL: All window and wall areas of a building in one plane
or elevation.
   CANOPY: Any structure attached to a building at the inner end and supported
on the other end, or a freestanding structure, with one or more supports, meant
to provide shelter from weather elements onto which signs may be affixed or
incorporated.
   CODE OFFICIAL: The appointed building inspector shall be known as the "code
official". The "code official" shall be responsible for the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter, and shall be known as the "department of building
inspection" in this chapter.
   CORNER LOT: A lot with property lines of two (2) streets intersecting at an
angle.
   ERECT: To build, construct, reconstruct, attach, hang, rehang, alter, place,
affix, enlarge, move or relocate, and includes the painting and repainting of
existing sign structures.
   FACADE: The face or wall of a building as it is presented to view; the
apparent width and/or height of a building as viewed from streets, driveways,
and parking lots. Minor changes in wall elevations do not constitute the
creation of additional facades.
   FLAG: A fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other
entity.
   FRONTAGE: The length of the lot along the street side. The frontage of a lot
bordering more than one street is considered separate for each street.
   GAS STATION (SERVICE STATION): Any business that dispenses, or is designed
to dispense, gasoline and/or oil for use in motor vehicles or boats.
   GRAPHICS: The wording or designs on a sign surface (also known as "copy").
   GROUND LEVEL: Immediate surrounding grade at the sign base.
   HEIGHT (OF SIGN): The vertical distance measured from the lowest surrounding
grade to the highest point of a sign.
   ILLUMINATED: Having an internal or external light source to highlight a
sign's graphics.
   INTERIOR PROPERTY LINE: Property lines other than those forming a dedicated
public right of way.
   INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more, or a combination of,
streets, highways, or rail lines meet.
   LOGO: A letter, character, or symbol used to represent a business
enterprise, corporation or person.
   MALL OR STRIP MALL: See definition of Shopping Center.
   OWNER: A person recorded as such on official records and including the duly
authorized agent or notary, a purchase lessee, or any person having a vested or
contingent interest in the property or business in question.
   PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string.
   PREMISES: An area of land with its appurtenances and buildings that, because
of its unity of use, may be regarded as the smallest conveyable unit of real
estate (used interchangeably with "lot").
   ROOF LINE: The highest point of the coping on a flat roof, false mansard, or
parapet wall; the deck line of a true mansard roof; the ridge line between the
upper and lower slopes of a gambrel roof; or the mean height between the eaves
and ridge for a gable or hip roof.
   SHOPPING CENTER: A lot having one or more buildings containing multiple
shops, stores, and/or other places of business, and providing off street
parking facilities in common for all of the businesses and their customers.
(Also known as "malls", "strip malls", etc.)
   SIGN: Any name, identification, description, illustration or device,
illuminated or unlighted, which is visible from any public place or is located
on private property and exposed to the public and which directs attention to a
product, service, place, activity, person, institution, business or
solicitation, including any permanently installed or situated merchandise or
any emblem, painting, banner, pennant or placard designed to advertise,
identify or convey information, with the exception of window displays and
national flags. For the purpose of removal, signs shall also include all sign
structures. Not included are decorative devices or emblems as may be displayed
on a residential mailbox. For the purpose of this chapter, this definition
shall include those signs painted directly upon a building or other structure.
   SIGN AREA: The area of the sign face. The "sign area" of a multifaced sign
is the sum of the sign areas of each face, including structural trim that can
be seen from a single location on an adjacent street. If a sign is attached to
a building or suspended in any manner whereby there is no apparent trim or
confining border, the sign area shall be computed by drawing an imaginary
straight line around a generally rectangular margin and measuring the area so
encompassed upon a building or other structure.
   SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its construction.
   SIGN SUPPORTS: All structures by which a sign is held up, including, for
example, poles, braces, guys, and anchors.
   SIGN TYPES:
      Abandoned: A sign that no longer correctly directs or exhorts any person,
advertises a bona fide business, lessor, owner, project or activity conducted
or product available on the premises where such sign is displayed.
      Animated: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene. This term does not refer to
"changeable copy" or "flashing signs" that are defined separately.
      Banner: A sign made of fabric, plastic, paper or other light, pliable
material, not enclosed in a rigid frame.
      Billboard: Any sign of more than two hundred (200) square feet per face,
which directs attention to a commercial enterprise, product, service, industry,
or other activity conducted, sold, or offered at a location other than on the
premises upon which the sign is erected; or a sign which directs attention to a
business that is no longer conducted or to a product that is no longer produced
or provided on the lot on which the sign is located. (Also known as a "standard
outdoor advertising structure".)
      Business: A sign, which may include a logo, that directs attention to a
business, commodity, service, activity, idea, slogan, or entertainment
conducted, sold, offered, or available upon the premises where such sign is
located or to which it is affixed.
      Canopy: Any sign that is part of, or attached to, an awning, canopy, or
the fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a "canopy".
      Changeable Copy (Automatic): A sign, such as electronically or
electrically controlled public service time, temperature and date sign, where
different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank (see also Message
Board).
      Changeable Copy (Manual): A sign on which copy is changed manually in the
field, i.e., reader boards with changeable letters or changeable pictorial
panels.
      Church Bulletin Board: A sign attached to the exterior of a church or
located elsewhere on church premises and used to indicate the church's name,
services, and/or other church activities.
      Commercial Development: Any temporary sign that provides direction to any
commercial development under construction, or promotes the commercial
development on the project site.
      Commercial Directory: A permanent pole sign designating the name of a
commercial center and listing the various tenants of the center.
      Construction Project: A temporary sign used during the construction of
new buildings or reconstruction of or additions to existing buildings, such as
those identifying the project and denoting the owner, architect, engineer,
contractor, and/or financing institutions of the project.
      Crop Identification: A sign whose content includes the type, description,
identification and otherwise pertinent information of crops being grown on a
plot of land.
      Directional: A sign that indicates a direction for vehicular or
pedestrian traffic or other movement.
      Flashing: Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing light
source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by
means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source (see
also Message Board).
      Fluttering: A sign which flutters and includes banners, flags, pennants,
or other flexible material which moves with the wind or by some artificial
means.
      Freestanding: Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure.
      Ground: A permanent sign supported by uprights or braces securely
anchored in the ground, with no more than two feet (2') of clear space between
the bottom of the face of the sign and the lowest grade beneath the sign face,
but not exceeding a total sign height of six feet (6') above the lowest grade
at its base.
      Hanging: Any sign suspended entirely beneath a canopy, porch, or portico.
      Identification (Occupational): A sign used to display and identify the
name of the individual, business, profession, organization, or institution
occupying the premises upon which the sign is located. The sign is mounted
adjacent to the main entrance of the building and may include a logo.
      Illegal: A sign which contravenes this chapter, or a nonconforming sign
for which a permit required under a previous ordinance was not obtained.
      Illuminated: Any sign illuminated by a light source mounted on or in the
sign or at some other location.
      Inflatable: A sign inflated with air or helium, such as a balloon.
      Marquee: A sign attached to any permanent roof like structure of rigid
materials supported by and extending from the facade of a building.
      Memorial Or Tablets: The permanent part of a building denoting the name
of the building, date of erection, historical significance, dedication, or
other similar information.
      Message Board: A panel that uses changing and/or flashing lights to
electronically communicate text and/or graphics. A panel with lights flashing
time and temperature only is not a "message board".
      Nonconforming: A sign legally erected prior to the effective date hereof,
but that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      Permanent: Any sign that is not a temporary sign, and is designed to be
in compliance with the Waterman building code and Waterman electrical code 1 .
      Pole: Any detached sign supported by a structure of one or more
stationary poles providing at least two feet (2') between the bottom of the
face of the sign and the grade beneath the sign face, but not exceeding a total
sign height of thirty feet (30') above the lowest grade at its base.
      Political: A temporary sign advocating or opposing any political
proposition or candidate for public office.
      Portable: Signs not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building.
      Project Identification: A permanent ground sign identifying an apartment
complex, condominium project, or mobile home development entry, manufactured
home development entry, modular home development entry, name, or street names
within the project.
      Projecting: Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner that
its leading edge extends more than twelve inches (12") beyond the surface of
such building or wall.
      Real Estate: A sign pertaining only to the prospective rental, lease, or
sale of the property upon which it is located.
      Residential Development Project: Any temporary sign that provides
direction to any residential development under construction, or promotes the
residential development on the project site.
      Roof: Any sign erected on a roof, but excluding marquee, canopy, and wall
signs. The generally vertical plane of a mansard type roof shall be interpreted
as the same as a wall of a building.
      Seasonal Or Special Occasion: A temporary sign that is limited to a
specific activity or in the celebration of holidays or other special events.
      Special Displays: Signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet, used
for holidays, public demonstrations, or promotion of civil welfare or
charitable purposes.
      Subdivision Identification: A permanent ground sign identifying a
subdivision entry, subdivision name, or street names within the subdivision.
      Temporary: A sign intended for a limited length of time or intermittent
period, as per subsection
 8-3-13B of this chapter, and is not permanently mounted.
      Trailer: Any trailer situated on a site for use as a sign, rather than
the incidental information for a normal business operation of hauling.
      Vehicle: Any vehicle primarily situated to serve as a sign rather than as
transportation or driven to a site to be used specifically as a sign. An
automobile, van, or truck displaying the name and/or other information
regarding the related establishment used for normal business operation or for
employee transportation is not a "vehicle sign".
      Wall: Any sign attached parallel to but within twelve inches (12") of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building.
      Window: Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, placed inside a window or door or upon the window or door panes or
glass and is visible from the exterior of the window or door. (1999 Code §
19.03; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1, articles A and B, respectively, of this title.
8-3-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except where otherwise stated, no sign subject to the
regulations of this chapter shall be erected without obtaining a sign permit.
   B.   Application For Permit; Approval: To obtain a permit, the person(s)
erecting the sign shall obtain approval from the code official. To obtain
approval, the person(s) shall complete a permit application form provided by
said official. Applications for sign permits shall include, but not be limited
to, the following:
      1.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the applicant, the
owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, the owner
of the sign, the locator number, and the person to be erecting or affixing the
sign.
      2.   The written consent of the owner of the building, structure, or
property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed.
      3.   A site plan of the property involved, showing accurate placement
thereon, of the proposed sign.
      4.   The location of the building, structure, or lot on which the sign is
to be erected or affixed.
      5.   Two (2) complete sets of drawings or plans and specifications of the
sign to be erected or affixed shall accompany the permit application. These
plans shall include dimensions, materials to be used, graphic details, weight,
appropriate electrical schematics and listings, type of construction, and means
of securing to the building or ground.
      6.   If required by the code official, a copy of stress sheets and
calculations prepared by or approved by a registered structural engineer
licensed by the state showing that the sign is designed for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by this chapter and all other
applicable regulations.
      7.   Such other information as the code official may require in order to
determine full compliance with this chapter and other applicable ordinances of
the village.
   C.   Securing And Posting Permit: Upon receipt of approval from the code
official, the person(s) erecting a sign must obtain a sign permit from the code
official. It shall be the responsibility of said person(s) to secure said
permit and to keep said permit posted on the site until all required
inspections are completed. (1999 Code § 19.04)
8-3-5: CONSTRUCTION, ALTERATION AND MAINTENANCE; COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND
ELECTRICAL CODES:
The provisions of the village building code and electrical codes 1  shall
govern the construction, alteration, and maintenance of all signs and outdoor
display signs, with their permanent and auxiliary devices, so far as they do
not conflict with the provisions of this chapter. The code official shall
enforce all provisions of said codes. (1999 Code § 19.04)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1, articles A and B, respectively, of this title.
8-3-6: REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS:
   A.   Unsafe signs shall be removed as provided in the building code 1 .
   B.   The code official may cause the removal of any sign that is an
immediate peril to persons or property summarily and without notice.
   C.   If any sign is erected without a permit, the code official shall order
it removed.
   D.   If any sign is erected or maintained so as to obstruct free ingress or
egress from any door, window or fire escape, the code official shall order it
removed. (1999 Code § 19.04)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1, article A of this title.
8-3-7: SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE 1 :
Except where otherwise stated, the requirements of the sight distance triangle
shall be as follows: On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede
vision between a height of two and one-half feet (2.5') and eight feet (8')
above the grade at the back of the curb of the intersecting streets, within the
triangular area formed by the right of way lines and a line connecting them at
points twenty five feet (25') from their point of intersection or at equivalent
points on private streets; except, that the sight distance triangle may be
increased by the code official when deemed necessary for traffic safety 2 .
(1999 Code § 19.05; amd. Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section
  9-2-1 of this code, definition of "sight distance triangle".
2 3. See subsection
  6-1-9A of this code for vegetation overhanging public ways.
8-3-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs and advertising devices are hereby prohibited:
   A.   Moving, rotating, or animated signs, except traditional barber's poles
not exceeding two feet (2') in height and projecting not more than twelve
inches (12") from the building, utilized only to identify a haircutting
establishment. In authorizing the latter exemption, the board of trustees may
find it in the public interest to retain this historic symbol of American
commerce. (1999 Code § 19.06)
   B.   On either the north side or the south side of Route 30 (Lincoln
Highway), from Juniper Street on the east to North Pine Street on the west,
flashing signs, including electronic message boards, however, not including
digital time and temperature signs involving only that information and no
further or additional information of an advertising nature. Such time/
temperature signs shall be constant or steady in nature, and shall not grow,
melt, X-ray, up or down scroll, write on travel, inverse, roll, twinkle, snow
or present pictorials or other animation. (Ord. 2009-09, 11-10-2009)
   C.   Billboards.
   D.   Vehicle and trailer signs.
   E.   Portable signs.
   F.   Residential or commercial development or real estate signs promoting
the sale of lots prior to the approval of the final plat.
   G.   Roof signs.
   H.   Signs containing characters, cartoons, statements, works or pictures
that constitute public indecency as prohibited under 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-9 (public indecency), or are "obscene" as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20(b).
   I.   Any sign erected in a public easement or right of way.
   J.   Any sign erected so as to prevent free ingress to or egress from any
door or window, or any other way required by the building or fire code of the
village 1 .
   K.   Any sign attached to any public utility pole, tree, fire hydrant, curb,
sidewalk or other surface located on public property.
   L.   Any sign erected in any location where, by reason of its location, it
will obstruct the view of any authorized traffic sign, signal, or other traffic
control device. Nor may any sign, by reason of its shape, position or color,
interfere with or be confused with any authorized traffic signal, sign or
device. Further, no sign shall be erected in the sight distance triangle 2  or
any other location where it will obstruct vision of the public right of way to
a vehicle operator during ingress to, egress from, or while traveling on the
public right of way. (1999 Code § 19.06)
   M.   Any on premises sign or standard outdoor advertising structure,
advertising an article or product not manufactured, assembled, processed,
repaired or sold or a service not rendered upon the premises upon which the
sign is located. (1999 Code § 19.06; amd. 2005 Code)
   N.   Any sign or advertising device, such as banners and pennants, affixed
on poles, wires, ropes or streamers, wind operated devices, fluttering signs,
pinwheels, streamers, banners, street banners, and A-frames or other portable
signs of like nature, and other similar constructions or techniques.
   O.   Off premises signs except as provided in this chapter.
   P.   Searchlights, except searchlights permitted for grand openings with
temporary permits.
   Q.   Illuminations that are not steady and constant.
   R.   Windows signs in excess of fifty percent (50%) of each window or door
area. (1999 Code § 19.06)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1, articles A and G of this title.
2 2. See section
  8-3-7 of this chapter.
8-3-9: NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
   A.   Continuation Of Nonconforming Sign: Any sign, unless otherwise excepted
by this chapter, legally existing prior to enactment of this chapter, but which
shall violate any provision of this chapter, may continue to be maintained and
used subject to the following provisions:
      1.   Enlargement: Nonconforming signs shall not be enlarged, expanded, or
extended to occupy a greater square footage or height than was occupied on the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto.
      2.   Relocation: Nonconforming signs shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot, parcel or building not so occupied on the
effective date hereof; except, that any such sign which is hereafter required
to be moved by a governmental body for the purpose of construction, relocation,
widening, or improvement of a street, highway, or other public purpose, may be
relocated once and allowed to be maintained and used as before.
      3.   Discontinuance: If the business or service advertised or identified
by a nonconforming sign ceases to be conducted for a period exceeding one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days, the nonconforming sign shall be classified
as an "abandoned sign" and removed.
      4.   Destruction: Should any nonconforming sign be destroyed by any means
to an extent of up to fifty percent (50%) of its surface area or structure, it
shall not be reconstructed, except in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Changes To Sign: If any existing sign is repainted or the sign panels
are replaced for the purpose of changing the business, occupation, or tenant
advertised or identified, it shall be considered a new sign. However, the
repainting or replacement of panels on a billboard shall not be considered a
new sign. Ordinary maintenance or repair of an existing sign to a safe
condition shall not be cause to classify the sign as a new sign.
   C.   Billboards: Any billboard legally existing prior to the effective date
hereof but which violates any provision of this chapter is hereby considered
legal and nonconforming and will be so considered for a period of not longer
than five (5) years from the effective date hereof. Thenceforth, such
billboards or outdoor advertising structures will be considered illegal, in
violation of this chapter and must be removed under penalty of law. (1999 Code
§ 19.07)
   D.   Decisions And Appeals: In cases of doubt or on a specific question
raised whether a nonconforming sign exists, it shall be a question of fact
decided by the code official and may be appealed to the building board of
appeals 1 . (1999 Code § 19.07; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-3 of this code.
8-3-10: AGRICULTURAL SIGNS:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Crop identification sign not exceeding a gross surface area of
thirty two (32) square feet and shall be unlimited in number as to crop type or
plot of land. The duration of these signs shall be limited to the growing
season.
      2.   Identification signs associated with permitted uses not exceeding a
maximum gross surface area of thirty two (32) square feet. One such sign shall
be permitted on each frontage.
      3.   Commercial identification sign(s) associated with permitted uses as
regulated by relevant special use permit or permits. Each sign shall not exceed
a maximum gross surface area of thirty two (32) square feet. One such sign
shall be permitted on each frontage.
      4.   Political signs shall not exceed a maximum gross surface area of
thirty two (32) square feet and shall be unlimited in number as to message and
plot of land. These signs shall be erected on private property only, for a
maximum of thirty (30) days prior to election, and shall be removed within
seven (7) days after the election for which they were made.
      5.   Memorial or tablet signs. One sign is permitted not exceeding six
(6) square feet per face, unless such signs are installed by federal, state,
county, or municipal government agencies.
      6.   Real estate signs. One sign per lot frontage and not exceeding a
maximum gross surface area of thirty two (32) square feet. Such sign shall be
removed within five (5) days following the date of closing or lease initiation.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Ground Signs: Ground signs shall be located at least ten feet (10')
from any property line, and all signs shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Identification Signs: For signs included in subsections A1, A2 and
A3 of this section, the maximum permitted height is eight feet (8').
      3.   Memorial Or Tablet Signs: Maximum permitted height is six feet (6').
      4.   Real Estate Signs: Maximum permitted height is six feet (6'). (1999
Code § 19.08)
8-3-11: RESIDENTIAL SIGNS:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Churches:
         a.   One church bulletin board shall be allowed on the same premises,
provided said sign does not exceed fifty (50) square feet per face toward each
roadway.
         b.   Two (2) directional signs not exceeding ten (10) square feet per
face are permitted at each entrance from every street serving the premises.
      2.   Directional Signs: Two (2) signs per entry/exit not exceeding ten
(10) square feet per face.
      3.   Memorial Or Tablet Signs: One sign not exceeding six (6) square feet
per face, unless such signs are installed by the federal, state, county, or
municipal government agencies. (1999 Code § 19.09)
      4.   Political Signs: The maximum area for any one sign shall be eight
(8) square feet, with a total of sixteen (16) square feet permitted for each
lot or unit. (1999 Code § 19.09; amd. Ord. 2011-01, 1-11-2011)
      5.   Project Identification Sign: One sign not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet per face shall be allowed per multi-family project, except where
the project fronts on two (2) or more streets. One sign shall be permitted on
each frontage, provided the project has a major traffic entrance on the street
where the sign is to be erected.
      6.   Public Or Semipublic Buildings, Or Public Park Identification Sign:
One sign per street frontage not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet per
face, inclusive of any logo.
      7.   Real Estate Signs: One sign per lot frontage not exceeding six (6)
square feet per face.
      8.   Residential Development Signs:
         a.   Promotional Signs: One sign not exceeding one hundred twenty
(120) square feet per face.
         b.   Directional Signs: Any number of signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet per face. Such signs may include directions to the development and
pertinent information concerning the developer, but shall exclude promotional
information.
      9.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs: See subsection
8-3-13B of this chapter.
      10.   Subdivision Identification Signs: Two (2) permanent subdivision
signs not exceeding fifty (50) square feet per face, inclusive of any logo,
shall be allowed per development. Where the development has access on two (2)
or more streets, or has more than one entrance on one street, identification
shall be allowed at each entrance.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Ground Signs: Ground signs shall be located at least ten feet (10')
from any property line, and all signs shall meet the sight triangle
requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter.
      2.   Church Bulletin Board Signs: Maximum height is fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Directional Signs: Maximum height is three and one-half feet (3.5')
above the elevation of the adjacent driveway at the point which it meets the
street right of way.
      4.   Memorial Or Tablet Signs: Maximum height is six feet (6'). For signs
included in subsections A6, A8 and A10 of this section, maximum height is eight
feet (8').
      5.   Project Identification Sign: Maximum height is six feet (6').
      6.   Real Estate Signs: Maximum height is six feet (6').
   C.   Other Requirements:
      1.   Construction Signs: Signs identifying mechanics, painters,
architects, engineers, and similar artisans and workmen which are attached to
or on trailers on the site of construction shall be permitted; provided, that
upon completion of the project, the trailer must be removed within one week.
These trailers are to be located at least ten feet (10') from the street. All
such signs shall be removed within two (2) years from the date of issuance of
the sign permit, or when the project has received an approved final inspection.
      2.   Directional Signs: May contain the street address or name of the
business center or the name of the building, trademark, logo, or similar
matter; provided, that a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the sign area is
used for this purpose.
      3.   Residential Development Project Sign: Such signs shall be removed
within two (2) years from the date of issuance of the sign permit, or when
eighty percent (80%) of the lots or dwelling units have been sold, whichever
circumstance occurs first.
      4.   Real Estate Signs: Shall be removed within five (5) days following
the date of closing or lease initiation. (1999 Code § 19.09)
8-3-12: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SIGNS:
   A.   Allowable Signs:
      1.   Generally: All signs permitted in section
8-3-11 of this chapter. (1999 Code § 19.10)
      2.   Commercial Directory: For buildings with multiple tenants, a
commercial directory sign may be substituted in lieu of the allowable pole sign
or ground sign. The maximum size of the commercial directory sign will be the
same as the pole or ground sign it replaces. For any proposed sign exceeding
the limitations, the sign proponent will be required to appeal to the zoning
board of appeals 1 . (1999 Code § 19.10; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   Ground Signs And Subdivision Signs: One ground sign per lot not
exceeding fifty (50) square feet per face may be substituted for the allowable
pole sign. One subdivision entryway sign per lot not exceeding ninety (90)
square feet per face may be substituted for the allowable pole sign. (Ord.
2011-10, 7-12-2011)
      4.   Identification Signs: One attached, unlighted sign, not exceeding
two (2) square feet, displaying the name, occupation and/or service located
upon the premises, and the address.
      5.   Pole Signs: One pole sign per lot not exceeding thirty two (32)
square feet per face.
      6.   Wall Signs: One attached sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of the
total square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the
instance of corner lots, an additional attached sign will be permitted for each
additional street frontage of the building, not exceeding five percent (5%) of
the total square footage of the respective building face upon which it is
placed. For buildings with multiple tenants, see subsection C of this section.
   B.   Location And Height:
      1.   Ground Signs: Ground signs shall be placed at least two feet (2')
from any property line. All signs shall meet the sight triangle requirements of
section
8-3-7 of this chapter, and shall not be located so as to obstruct vision at a
vehicular entry or exit from the property.
      2.   Pole Signs: Pole signs shall be set back from the property line a
distance equal to the height of the sign, but in every case, at least ten feet
(10') to any property line.
      3.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall maintain a clearance of ten feet (10')
above the ground or pavement, and shall be recessed where involving a pitched
roof location.
      4.   Window Signs: Window signs may only be attached to the interior of a
window or glass door and shall be maintained in good repair.
   C.   Other Requirements:
      1.   For buildings or property containing more than one business or
tenant, each business or tenant may have one wall sign conforming to the
requirements of this section. For the purposes of determining the total square
footage of the attached sign, only the face of each respective lease unit to
which the respective sign will be attached shall be counted. Each sign must be
attached to the lease unit containing the business tenant identified.
      2.   Construction signs are as permitted by subsection
 8-3-11C of this chapter.
      3.   Each building or property shall be allowed a maximum of two (2)
signs, that may be either a wall sign, a ground sign, or a pole sign, but the
total number shall not include more than one sign of each of these types.
Window signs and occupational/directional signs, as regulated by this section,
are excluded from this maximum of two (2) signs.
      4.   Each building or property may have one additional wall sign,
conforming to the requirements of this section, on walls containing a main
entrance that faces customer parking areas and are not visible from either a
public or private street. For this exception to apply, the signs must be
attached to the same wall at their respective entrances, and both the signs and
the entrances must be upon the same plane of the building. (1999 Code § 19.10)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 2-2-2 and title 9, chapter 3, article A of this code.
8-3-13: OTHER SIGNS:
   A.   Service Stations, Convenience Stores With Gasoline Pumps:
      1.   Allowable Signs:
         a.   Identification Signs:
            (1)   One pole sign not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet per
face per street frontage. Gasoline prices shall be integrated into the pole
sign face in accordance with Illinois statutes.
            (2)   One ground sign, in lieu of a pole sign, not exceeding fifty
(50) square feet per face. Gasoline prices shall be integrated into the ground
sign face in accordance with Illinois statutes.
            (3)   One wall sign not exceeding five percent (5%) of the total
square footage of the building face upon which it is placed. In the instance of
corner lots, a sign will be permitted on each additional street frontage of
building not exceeding five percent (5%) of the total square footage of the
respective building face upon which it is placed.
         b.   Price Signs:
            (1)   Two (2) price signs per pump island not exceeding two (2)
square feet per face, per sign.
            (2)   One price sign as a component of the permitted pole sign, not
exceeding ten (10) square feet per face.
            (3)   In those instances where digital price signs are utilized,
such signs shall be constant in nature, and shall not travel, flush, inverse,
write on, up or down scroll, roll, grow, melt, x-ray, twinkle, snow, or
otherwise change in nature. (1999 Code § 19.11)
         c.   Self-Service Or Full Service Signs: Two (2) self-service signs
per pump island, not exceeding five (5) square feet per face per sign or two
(2) full service signs. (1999 Code § 19.11; amd. 2005 Code)
         d.   Federal And State Stamps, Octane Ratings, Pump Use Directions,
And No Smoking Signs: As required by federal, state and local authorities.
      2.   Location And Height:
         a.   Brand Identification Signs:
            (1)   Pole Signs: As regulated by section
8-3-12 of this chapter.
            (2)   Ground Signs: As regulated by section
8-3-11 of this chapter.
            (3)   Wall Signs: As regulated by section
8-3-12 of this chapter.
         b.   Company Logos: As regulated by subsection
8-3-11B3 of this chapter.
         c.   Price Signs And Self-Service Or Full Service Signs: Shall be
located at the ends of pump islands and may be affixed to the canopy, canopy
supports, poles, or end pumps.
         d.   Federal And State Stamps, Etc.: Shall be placed upon the body of
the gasoline pump, or as required by the respective governmental authority.
      3.   Other Requirements:
         a.   Canopy Use: An attached or detached canopy may be used in lieu of
the permitted pole sign for the location of brand identification signs, or as
an alternative location for price signs, or company logos.
         b.   Portable Signs: The use of portable signs for the advertisement
of cigarettes, food, or other sundry items is specifically prohibited.
   B.   Special Displays And Other Temporary Signs: The code official may
approve the following temporary signs and/or devices for a period of up to a
thirty (30) days:
      1.   Banners and pennants.
      2.   Signs announcing openings.
      3.   Seasonal or special occasion signs such as special events and
special business hours. The use of such devices for special promotions shall be
limited to three (3) such events for each business in a calendar year with a
maximum time period of fourteen (14) days for each event. These events may be
consecutive. Upon written request with appropriate justification, the code
official may extend beyond the thirty (30) day period, but only upon review and
approval of such signs. (1999 Code § 19.11)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
Purpose; Jurisdiction; Application Of Provisions   1
Definitions   2
Administration And Enforcement   3
Zoning Board Of Appeals   3A
General Provisions   4
Zoning Districts And Map   5
Residence Districts   6
Commercial Districts   7
Industrial Districts   8
Planned Unit Developments   9
A-1 Agriculture District   10
Nonconforming Lots, Structures And Uses   11
Off Street Parking And Loading   12
Special Uses   13
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; JURISDICTION; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title And Jurisdiction
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Application And Interpretation Of Provisions
9-1-4: Adopted Codes And Standards
9-1-1: TITLE AND JURISDICTION:
This title shall be now referred to and cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE
VILLAGE OF WATERMAN and shall apply to uses of structures, land and water
within the corporate limits of the village and to the subdivision of land and
the public improvements placed thereon in and within one and one-half (11/2)
miles of the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To implement the goals, objectives and policies of the Waterman
comprehensive plan.
   B.   To promote the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the people.
   C.   To divide the village into zones or districts regulating and
restricting therein the location and use of buildings, structures and land for
residence, business, manufacturing and other specified purposes.
   D.   To protect the character and stability of the agricultural,
residential, business, and manufacturing areas within the village and to
promote the orderly and beneficial development of such areas.
   E.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property.
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, and manufacturing or other uses within such areas.
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform.
   H.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading of commercial vehicles.
   I.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare.
   J.   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district.
   K.   To facilitate and ensure the preservation of sites, areas and
structures of historical, architectural and aesthetic importance.
   L.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies provided herein.
   M.   To encourage the use of alternative and renewable energy sources.
   N.   To prevent the pollution of air, streams, and other surface waters; to
assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and
to encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout
Waterman in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the
community and the value of land.
   O.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of and methods for the
enforcement of the provisions of this title or any amendment hereto. (Ord.
2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: No building or land shall hereafter be used
and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a
use expressly permitted by and in conformity with the regulations for the
district in which it is located. (1999 Code § 5.06)
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   C.   More Restrictive Provisions Apply: Where the conditions imposed by any
provision of this title upon the use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of
buildings are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provisions of this code or of any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulations of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive (which impose higher standards or requirements) shall
govern.
   D.   No Authority To Operate A Business: Nothing in this title shall be
deemed to be a consent, license or permit to use any property, to locate,
construct, or maintain any building, structure or facility, or to carry on any
business, industry, occupation or trade.
   E.   Platted Building And Setback Lines: If a recorded subdivision plat
imposes a building or setback line for a lot which is less than the minimum
yard required by the applicable section of this title, then, notwithstanding
the recorded plat, the minimum yard shall be the same as required by the
applicable section of this title.
   F.   Disclosure By Trustee Of Land Trust: Whenever any trustee of a land
trust or any beneficiary or beneficiaries of a land trust make application to
the village or any of its agencies pursuant to the provisions of this title
relating to the land which is the subject of trust, any interest therein,
improvements thereto, or use thereof, such application shall identify each
beneficiary of such land trust by name and address and define his interest
therein. All such applications shall be verified by the applicant in his
capacity as trustee, or by the beneficiary as the beneficial owner of an
interest in such land trust.
   G.   Private Agreements: This title is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or other private agreement; provided, that where the
regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements than easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this title shall be controlling.
   H.   Separability: In accordance with the following, it is hereby declared
that the several provisions of this title are separate:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction determines any provision of
this title to be invalid, such determination shall not affect any other
provision of this title not specifically included in the court's judgment
order.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction determines any provision of
this title to be invalid as applied to a particular lot, parcel, building,
structure or use, such determination shall not affect the application of such
provision to any other lot, parcel, building, structure or use not specifically
included in the court's judgment order.
   I.   Illustrations: The illustrations used in this title are not drawn to
scale and are intended only to graphically represent the requirements and
concepts contained herein, and are not intended, nor should they be construed,
to represent every situation or circumstance which may exist in the village.
When there is a conflict between the text of this title and an illustration
herein, the text shall prevail. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-1-4: ADOPTED CODES AND STANDARDS:
Any and all standards and other codes, regulations and public records
incorporated by reference into this title have been adopted in accordance with
the requirements established in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-1 et seq.,
and 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 220/0.01 et seq. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004;
amd. 2005 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Words And Terms Defined
9-2-1: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows. All words used in the present tense include the future
tense. All words used in the singular include plural, and all words used in the
plural include the singular. The word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
The word "used" shall be deemed to include "designed, intended or arranged to
be used".
   ABANDONMENT: To cease or discontinue a use or activity without intent to
resume. This definition excludes temporary or short term interruptions to a use
or activity during periods of remodeling, maintaining or otherwise improving or
rearranging a facility. Also, ceasing an activity during normal periods of
vacation or seasonal closure shall not constitute "abandonment".
   ABUTTING: Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right of way, alley or easement.
   ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental to and on the same zoning lot as a principal
use. An "accessory use" is subordinate in size, extent and/or purpose to the
principal use and contributes to the comfort, convenience and/or necessity of
the principal use being served.
   AGRICULTURAL USE: The noncommercial and limited growing of vegetables in the
open; mushroom growing, flower gardening, nurseries and orchards.
   AGRICULTURE: Land, or land and structures, the principal use of which
includes one of the following: the growing of farm crops, truck garden crops,
animal, apiculture, aquaculture, floriculture, horticulture, nurseries, tree
farms, sod farms, pasturage, viticulture, wholesale greenhouses; and accessory
uses customarily incidental to agricultural activities.
   ALLEY: Any public or private way dedicated to public travel. See table,
"Urban Section Standards", in subsection
10-3-2D of this code for standard widths.
   BASEMENT: That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BEDROOM: Includes any room used principally for sleeping purposes, an all
purpose room, a study or a den.
   BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy. To determine the number of buildings on a zoning lot, each
building shall be considered a separate building when the buildings are not
joined by a common wall, roof, ceiling and floor assemblies.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A building which is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or use. An accessory building is subordinate in size, extent
and/or purpose to the principal building or use and contributes to the comfort,
convenience and/or necessity of the occupants of the principal building or use
being served.
   BUILDING LINE: See definition of Setback.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main or the
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated.
   CERTIFICATE OF USE AND OCCUPANCY: The certificate issued by the zoning
official which permits the use of a building in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications. It also certifies compliance with the provisions of
this title for the use and occupancy of the building in its several parts,
together with any special stipulations or conditions of the building permit.
   CHANGE OF USE: An alteration by change of use in a building or a tract of
land, heretofore existing, to a new use which imposes other provisions of this
title or the building code 1  governing building construction, equipment or
means of egress.
   DEVELOPMENT, PLANNED: Land under unified control to be planned and developed
in a single development operation or a programmed series of development
operations or phases. A planned development includes principal and accessory
structures and uses strongly related to the character and purposes of the
planned development. A planned development is built according to general and
detailed plans for streets, utilities, lot and building location, landscaping
and the like. A planned development includes a program for the provision,
operation and maintenance of common areas, facilities and improvements that are
for the use of the occupants of the planned development district, but which
will not be provided, operated or maintained at public expense.
   DRIVEWAY: An open area of land, other than a street, sidewalk or other
public way, permitting ingress from a public street or alley or other public
right of way to public or private property, the principal use of which is for
the standing, parking, loading or unloading of a motor vehicle.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: One building consisting of three (3) or more
dwelling units, each of which is attached to at least one other dwelling unit
by a common wall extending from floor to ceiling and from exterior wall to
exterior wall or by a horizontal structure floor assembly extending from
exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell exterior to the
dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached dwelling unit designed for and intended
for use by one family or one household.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: One building consisting of two (2) dwelling units
attached by a common wall extending from the floor to the ceiling and from
exterior wall to exterior wall or by a horizontal structure floor assembly
extending from exterior wall to exterior wall, except for a common stairwell
exterior to both dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT: A room or group of rooms meeting minimum habitable room sizes
as required by the village building code 2  which are arranged, designed, used
or intended for use exclusively as living quarters for one family or one
household, including sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation facilities. This
definition includes manufactured and modular homes but not mobile homes.
   DWELLING UNIT, FARM: A single-family dwelling unit located on a farm which
is used or intended to be used by the farm owner, operator, or person employed
thereon. Only one farm dwelling shall be permitted on each farm.
   EASEMENT: A grant of one or more of the property rights by the owner to or
for the use by the public, a corporation or another person or entity for a
specific purpose.
   EFFECTIVE DATE HEREOF: November 1, 1996.
   FAMILY: Two (2) or more persons related to each other by blood, marriage,
adoption or other means of legal custody, plus not more than two (2) unrelated
lodgers or guests, living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling
unit.
   FARM: Real property used for commercial agriculture comprising at least
forty (40) acres of which at least twenty five (25) acres have been utilized
for agricultural pursuits for the last three (3) years, all of which is
operated by a sole proprietorship, partnership, or corporation and including
all necessary farm buildings, structures and machinery. Property used for
commercial agriculture, but not meeting the minimum land area requirement
herein, may be a "farm" if such tract of land produces a gross annual income,
as averaged over the most recent three (3) year period, of fifteen percent
(15%) of the average gross income for all farming as published in the yearly
USDA report from activities described in the term "agriculture" of this
section.
   FENCE: A freestanding structure of metal, masonry, composition or wood, or
any combination thereof, permanently installed by being partially buried in the
ground and rising above ground level, and used for confinement, screening, or
partition purposes, including the following:
   A.   Fence, Decorative: A fence having a regular pattern that has more than
fifty percent (50%) of the surface open and unobstructed to vision, light and
air, when viewed perpendicular to the plane of the fence and intended primarily
for aesthetic purposes;
   B.   Fence, Natural: A living barrier that is made of natural growth, such
as shrubs, hedges, evergreens and similar planted vegetation; and
   C.   Fence, Solid: A fence having a regular pattern that has less than fifty
percent (50%) of the surface open and unobstructed to vision, light and air,
when viewed perpendicular to the plane of the fence and intended primarily for
privacy or security purposes.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the private use of the owner or
occupant of a principal building situated on the same lot as the principal
building for the storage of vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service
or repair of a commercial or public nature.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from grade plane to the highest
point of the building, excluding the following structural projections:
chimneys, cooling towers, elevator head houses, monuments, stage towers or
scenery lofts, tanks, water towers, ornamental towers or spires, church
steeples or necessary mechanical appurtenances usually required to be placed
above the roof level; except, that such structural projections shall not exceed
the height regulations of the district in which the structure is situated by
more than twenty percent (20%).
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation, profession or other business activity that
is clearly a customary, incidental and secondary use of a residential dwelling
unit which does not alter the exterior of the building or lot or affect the
residential character of the neighborhood. Such a use shall not employ more
than one person outside the family residence in the dwelling.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets. For establishing building setbacks, a corner lot is considered to have
two (2) or more front yards.
   LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance from the midpoint of the front lot line
to the midpoint of the rear lot line or to the most distant point on any other
lot line where there is no rear lot line.
   LOT, FLAG: A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by a narrow
corridor of property.
   LOT LINE: A line dividing one lot from another or from a street or any
public place.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: (See also definition of Yard, Front.) On an interior lot,
the lot line abutting a street; or on a corner lot, the shorter lot line
abutting a street; or on a through lot, the lot line abutting the street
providing the primary access to the lot; or on a flag lot, the interior lot
line most parallel to and nearest the street providing access.
   LOT LINE, REAR: (See also definition of Yard, Rear.) The lot line not
intersecting a front lot line that is most distant from and most closely
parallel to the front lot line. A lot bounded by only three (3) lot lines will
not have a rear lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: (See also definition of Yard, Side.) Any lot line not a
front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision or parcel of land whose
boundaries have been established by some legal instrument and is shown on a map
or plat thereof and which has been legally approved by the village board and
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of DeKalb County. A "lot of
record" may or may not coincide with a zoning lot.
   LOT, THROUGH: A lot having its front and rear yards each abutting on a
street (also known as double frontage lot).
   LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between side lot lines, measured at the
front lot line.
   LOT, ZONING: A single tract (or combination of tracts) of land located
within a single block, which (by filing and recording an affidavit for the use
of more than one lot at the time of application for a building permit) is
designated by the owner or developer as a tract to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit under single ownership or control. A zoning lot or lots may or
may not coincide with a lot of record.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit designed for long term human habitation
that is manufactured under the authority of 42 USC section 5401, the national
manufactured home construction and safety standards act, where all parts and
systems have been fabricated and assembled at a factory into at least two (2)
finished, transportable components which are designed to be temporarily
attached to a wheeled carriage for transportation to the building site and then
joined for use on a permanent foundation. A "manufactured home" is at least
twenty feet (20') in width at its narrowest point, is installed on a foundation
system in compliance with the village building code 3 , is covered with
exterior materials customarily used on conventional dwellings, has a roof with
a pitch and materials customarily seen on conventional dwellings, is
convertible to real property and is taxed as a site built dwelling as provided
by law.
   MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built home designed to be used as a
year-round residential dwelling with a permanent foundation, which is less than
twenty feet (20') in width at its narrowest point, was built on a chassis with
wheels on axles permanently attached to its body or frame, and does not have
facade or roof design customarily seen on conventional dwellings.
   MODULAR HOME: A factory built home certified as meeting the village building
codes as applicable to modular housing 4  and subject to the same standards as
site built homes.
   NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot of record existing at the effective date hereof, or
amendment hereto (and not created for evading the restrictions of this title),
that does not meet the minimum area requirement of the district in which the
lot is located.
   NONCONFORMING SITUATION: A situation that occurs when, on the effective date
hereof, or amendment hereto, any existing lot or structure or use of an
existing lot or structure does not conform to one or more of the regulations
applicable to the district in which the lot or structure is located. Among
other possibilities, a "nonconforming situation" may arise because a lot does
not meet minimum size requirements, because structures exceed maximum height
limitations, because the relationship between existing buildings and the land
(in such matters as density and setback requirements) is not in conformity with
this title, or because land or buildings are used for purposes made unlawful by
this title.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A nonconforming situation that occurs when property is
used for a purpose or in a manner made unlawful by the use regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located. (For example, a
commercial office building in a residential district may be a nonconforming
use.) The term also refers to the activity that constitutes the use made of the
property. (For example, all the activity associated with operating a retail
clothing store in a residentially zoned area constitutes a "nonconforming
use").
   NONCONFORMITY, DIMENSIONAL: A nonconforming situation that occurs when the
height of a structure, or the relationship between an existing building or
buildings and other buildings or lot lines, does not conform to the regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, junk,
material or merchandise in the same place for more than twenty four (24) hours.
   OWNER: Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the property.
   PARKING SPACE: Any impervious surfaced area, enclosed or unenclosed, with
dimensions as set forth in subsection
9-12-4C2 of this title exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps and office and
work areas, together with a surfaced driveway connecting the parking space with
a street or alley and permitting ingress and egress of an automobile; provided,
however, that "parking spaces" shall not be located in required front or side
yards in dwelling districts.
   PARKWAY: That area beginning from the back of the curb or the edge of a
gravel shoulder and extending to the front edge of the sidewalk.
   PERSON: Includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
and any other group acting as a unit as well as individuals. The term shall
also include an executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other
representative appointed according to law. Whenever the word "person" is used
in any provision of this title prescribing a penalty or fine as to partnerships
or associations, the word shall include the partners or members thereof and as
to corporations, shall include the officer, agents or members thereof who are
responsible for any violation of such provision.
   PRINCIPAL USE: The primary use to which the premises are devoted.
   QUEUING SPACE: The space occupied by any number of cars that must be
accommodated while awaiting ingress or egress to specified business or service
establishments.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle or boat originally designed for living
quarters, recreation, or human habitation and not used as a commercial vehicle,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Boat: Any vessel used for water travel. A boat mounted on a trailer
shall be considered one vehicle;
   B.   Camping Trailer: A folding or collapsible vehicle without its own
motive power, designed as temporary living quarters for travel, camping,
recreation or vacation use;
   C.   Motor Home: A temporary dwelling designed and constructed for travel,
camping, recreational or vacation use as an integral part of a self- propelled
vehicle;
   D.   Off Road Vehicles: Vehicles intended primarily for recreational use off
of roads where state vehicle licenses are required, e.g., dune buggy, go-cart,
snowmobile;
   E.   Racing Cars/Cycles: Vehicles intended to be used in racing competition,
such as a racecar or racing cycle. A racing car/cycle mounted on a trailer
shall be considered one vehicle;
   F.   Travel Trailer: A vehicle without its own motive power, designed to be
used as a temporary dwelling for travel, camping, recreational or vacation
uses;
   G.   Truck Camper: A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup
truck or truck chassis and designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for
travel, camping, recreational or vacation uses. When mounted on a truck, such
structure shall be considered one vehicle;
   H.   Vans: Noncommercial motor vehicles licensed by the state of Illinois as
recreational vehicles; and
   I.   Vehicle Trailer: A vehicle without its own motive power that is
designed to transport another vehicle, such as a boat, motorcycle or
snowmobile, for recreational or vacation use and that is eligible to be
licensed or registered and insured for highway use. A vehicle trailer with a
vehicle mounted on it shall be considered one vehicle.
   RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline,
water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or other special use.
   SETBACK, BUILDING LINE: The required minimum horizontal distance between the
closest point of an exterior wall of a building or any projection thereon and
the related front, side or rear lot line.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE 5 : Except where otherwise stated, the requirements
of the "sight distance triangle" shall be as follows: On a corner lot in any
district, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such
a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two and one-half
feet (2.5') and eight feet (8') above the grade at the back of the curb of the
intersecting streets, within the triangular area formed by the right of way
lines and a line connecting them at points twenty five feet (25') from their
point of intersection or at equivalent points on private streets; except, that
the "sight distance triangle" may be increased by the zoning official when
deemed necessary for traffic safety.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1069.png]
 
   SPECIAL USE: A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but, if controlled as to number,
area, location or relation to the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or general welfare.
   STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
   STREET: Any public or private way dedicated to public travel thirty one feet
(31') or more in width. The word "street" shall include the words "road",
"highway" and "thoroughfare".
   SUBDIVISION: The subdivision of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots
or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or
if a new street is involved, any division or parcel of land; provided, that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
The term includes resubdivision, and when appropriate to the context, shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   VARIANCE: A modification of the specific requirements of this title granted
by the board of appeals or village board under the terms of this title for the
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
properties in the same vicinity and zoning district. Such modifications do not
include authorizing a use not among the uses specified by this title as
permitted in the district in which such property is located.
   YARD: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot lines,
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided. In measuring a "yard" for determining the
width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear yard,
the least horizontal distance between the lot line and the building shall be
used. Where a lot abuts a street, all yards abutting said street shall be
measured from the street right of way.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the required front building setback line and the front property line of
the lot.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear lot line and the required rear building setback line.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard lying between the side line of the lot and the nearest
line of the required side building setback line and extending from the front
yard to the rear yard.
   ZONING OFFICIAL: A person appointed as specified in section
9-3-1, "Zoning Official", of this title. Unless specified otherwise by
authority of section
9-3-1 of this title, the zoning official shall be the chairman of the zoning
committee. (1999 Code § 5.03; amd. Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004; Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-
2004; 2005 Code; Ord. 2015-02, 2-10-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
2 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
3 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
4 2. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
  1. See also section
5 8-3-7 of this code; see subsection
  6-1-9A of this code for vegetation overhanging public ways.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Zoning Official
9-3-2: Building Permit
9-3-3: Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy
9-3-4: Amendments
9-3-5: Recovery Of Village Costs
9-3-6: Remedies And Penalties
9-3-1: ZONING OFFICIAL:
This title shall be administered and enforced by the zoning official who shall
be appointed by the president of the village board with the board's
concurrence. (1999 Code § 5.40)
9-3-2: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to commence the excavation for or
the construction of any building, including accessory buildings, or to commence
the moving or alteration of any buildings, including accessory buildings, until
the zoning official has issued a building permit for such work.
   B.   Application For Permit: In applying to the zoning official for a
building permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned sketch or scaled plan
indicating the shape, size, height and location of all buildings to be erected,
altered or moved and of any buildings already on the lot. He shall state also
the existing and intended use of all such buildings and supply such other
information as may be required by the zoning official for determining whether
the provisions of this title are being observed.
   C.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit: If the proposed excavation or
construction as set forth in the application are in conformity with the
provisions of this title and other ordinances of the village, the zoning
official shall issue a building permit for such excavation or construction. If
a building permit is refused, the zoning official shall state such refusal in
writing, with the cause, and shall immediately forward such notice of refusal
to the applicant. The zoning official shall grant or deny the permit within ten
(10) days from the date the application is submitted. The issuance of a
building permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any provisions of this
title.
   D.   Invalidity Of Permit: A building permit shall become void in the
following instances:
      1.   If substantial progress has not been made on the project for which
the permit was issued within ninety (90) days of the date of issuance.
      2.   If the building exterior and rough grading is not complete within
thirty (30) months of the date of issuance.
   E.   Permit Fee: To partially defray the expenses of administering this
title, a fee shall be collected by the zoning official for each building permit
1 . (1999 Code § 5.41)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-2-1 of this code for specific permit fees.
9-3-3: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No land or building or part thereof hereafter
erected or altered in its use or structure shall be used until the zoning
official shall have issued a certificate of occupancy indicating that such
land, building or part thereof, and the proposed use thereof, are found to be
in conformity with the provisions of this title. Within three (3) days after
notification that a building or premises or part thereof is ready for occupancy
or use, it shall be the duty of the zoning official to make a final inspection
thereof and to issue a certificate of occupancy if the land, building or part
thereof and the proposed use thereof are found to conform with the provisions
of this title; or if such certificate is refused, to state such refusal in
writing, with the cause, and immediately forward such notice of refusal to the
applicant.
   B.   Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued if the sidewalk,
driveway, parking area or other require improvements cannot be installed prior
to occupancy.
      2.   Temporary certificate of occupancy shall only be effective for six
(6) months from the date of issue and will only be issued after the payment of
a bond or escrow amount that is set from time to time by action of the Village
Board of Trustees and a written commitment is provided by the builder stating
the anticipated completion date of the construction.
      3.   A Temporary Certificate of Occupancy will not be issued where
improvements relate to life safety requirements or substantial completion.
      4.   Violating the conditions of a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy
will result in revocation of the Temporary Certificate of Occupancy and any
bond or escrow held by the Village will be forfeited to the Village. (1999 Code
§ 5.41; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2022-08, 11-8-2022)
9-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Authority:
      1.   The mayor and village board of trustees may amend, supplement,
change, modify or repeal the regulations, restrictions and boundaries as
provided for in this title. (1999 Code § 5.47)
      2.   The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended from time to time, by ordinance, in
accordance with the applicable statutes of the state. An amendment shall be
granted or denied by the board of trustees only after public hearing before the
planning commission and a report of the commission's findings and
recommendations has been submitted to the board. (1999 Code § 5.48)
   B.   Initiation Of Amendment; Fee: Amendments may be proposed by the board
of trustees, by the planning commission, the board of appeals, other
governmental bodies, or by any owner of property within the jurisdictional
limits of this title. Any person, firm or corporation desiring to petition or
request an amendment or change in this title shall accompany said petition or
request with a payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the village, for the
purpose of defraying the expense of legal publications and other costs required
to schedule and hold the hearing relative to the proposed amendment to this
title and the subsequent publication of any amendment made hereto. (1999 Code §
5.48; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Application For Amendment; Notice Of Hearing: An application for an
amendment shall be filed with the village clerk and thereafter introduced to
the village board. Such application shall be forwarded from the board of
trustees to the planning commission, with a request to hold a public hearing.
Notice shall be given of the time and place of the hearing, not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, by publishing a
notice thereof at least once in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village.
   D.   Hearing And Planning Commission Recommendations: The planning
commission shall hold the public hearing and forward its recommendations in the
form of a written report to the board of trustees within forty five (45) days
of the date the petition was submitted to the planning commission, unless it is
withdrawn by the petitioner.
   E.   Protests: In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment
of the regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of
twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners
of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or across an
alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with the
village clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of
two-thirds (2/3) of all of the members of the village board of trustees. Any
proposed amendment which fails to receive the approval of a majority of the
planning commission members and is so reported, shall not be passed by the
board of trustees except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all of the
members of said board.
   F.   Board Of Trustees Decisions: The board of trustees, upon report of the
planning commission and without further public hearing, may grant or deny any
proposed amendment in accordance with the applicable statutes of the state, or
may refer it back to the planning commission for further consideration. (1999
Code § 5.48)
9-3-5: RECOVERY OF VILLAGE COSTS:
   A.   Scope: Every petition filed and processed that requires the village to
incur professional fees and expenses shall be subject to the requirements set
forth in this section. The recovery of professional fees and expenses shall be
in addition to any and all other filing fees and other charges established by
the village. No petition subject to this section shall be placed on the agenda
for any village board or committee until the petitioner has complied with this
section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the village board may consider a
request for a reduction or waiver of the escrow required under this section
prior to the creation of the escrow account.
   B.   Definitions:
   PETITION: Includes and refers to any and all petitions and applications: 1)
filed or processed pursuant to this title; 2) filed or processed pursuant to
the subdivision ordinance of this code; 3) filed requesting annexation,
rezoning, building permits, or other land related permits or permissions; 4)
which require the review of any proposed plans to verify compliance with the
applicable codes and regulations of the village; 5) which require negotiation
or discussion with the professional staff of the village, including, but not
limited to, the village attorneys, village engineers or village planners; 6)
which require the creation of a special service area under the current or
future provisions of any applicable village, county or state ordinance,
statute, regulation or law; 7) which involve connections to the storm water,
sanitary sewer, water or other public utilities maintained by the village; 8)
which involve the proposed construction of permanent or semipermanent fixed
structures including buildings, parking lots, roadways or driveways, or other
similar structures; or 9) the ongoing administration of any project that
results from any of the above listed items to the full completion of the
project.
   PROFESSIONAL FEES AND EXPENSES: Includes and refers to any and all fees,
costs, expenses or other charges incurred by the village in the process of
reviewing any petition, including, without limitation, the costs associated
with professional review, discussion and/or negotiation of the petition and
related agreements, permits, plans and other documents by the village
attorneys, engineers, planners and other professionals, and including all costs
or expenses otherwise incurred by the village in association therewith,
including, but not limited to, administrative expenses of the village. Costs of
inspections will include village's cost for any equipment and material
involved, including staffing and administrative expenses associated with
distributing materials related to the petition, copying or preparing such
materials, administering escrow accounts, or otherwise related to the petition.
Fees for village employees shall be based on hourly rates reflecting the actual
time spent on the project by the village employees, with hourly rates for the
same to be fixed from time to time by separate resolution of the village board
of trustees. Professional fees and expenses may also include, as appropriate,
the cost of court reporters, copy reproduction, document recordation, mailing
costs, title searches, and such other costs as shall be incurred by the village
due to the filing of the petition or the activity proposed by the petition.
Professional fees and expenses shall also include the cost of inspection or
supervision of any public improvements or other structures constructed by
virtue of, or arising out of a petition.
   C.   Responsibility For Payment Of Recoverable Costs; Lien: The owner of the
property that is the subject of the petition and, if different, the petitioner,
shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of recoverable costs. By
signing the petition, the owner or petitioner shall be deemed to have agreed to
pay, and to have consented to payment of recoverable costs, plus any costs of
collection, in accordance with the provisions of this section. Any lien filed
pursuant to this subsection may be foreclosed in the manner provided for
mortgages or mechanics' liens under Illinois law.
   D.   Provisions Are A Condition Of All Petitions, Approvals And Permits: No
petition filed pursuant to this title shall be considered complete unless and
until all filing fees and deposits due pursuant to this title have been paid.
Every approval granted and every permit issued pursuant to this title shall,
whether or not expressly so conditioned, be deemed to be conditioned upon
payment of recoverable costs as required by this section. The village may, in
its sole discretion, issue stop work orders and otherwise revoke permits or
permissions previously granted should a petitioner cease compliance with this
section during the pendency of a filed or approved petition. Any person who
files a petition covered under this section shall be obligated to execute and
complete a separate reimbursement agreement which shall be provided by the
village.
   E.   Failure To Pay Recoverable Costs: The failure to pay in full when due
any recoverable cost or deposit required under this section shall be grounds
for refusing to process a petition and for denying or revoking any permit or
approval sought or issued with respect to the land or development to which the
unpaid recoverable cost or deposit relates.
   F.   Escrow Account To Be Established: At the time of filing a petition, and
prior to the village's review of the same, the petitioner shall be required to
establish an escrow account in compliance with this section, and shall be
required to execute an escrow agreement in the form provided by the village.
The petitioner shall be obligated to make all payments necessary to maintain
such account at the level prescribed by the village. If the petitioner fails to
make a payment requested by the village within thirty (30) days of such
request, the village may unilaterally choose to implement any or all of the
following remedies until such point in time as the petitioner has paid all
amounts due, and has made all payments necessary to restore petitioner's escrow
accounts to the level prescribed by the village:
      1.   Issuance of a stop work order on any portion of the work proposed by
the petition.
      2.   Refusal to issue further permits for building, occupancy, water tap-
on, or other petition related work.
      3.   Cessation of any utility service provided by the village to any
property owned or maintained by petitioner or their successors or assigns.
      4.   Institution of appropriate legal action to recover any and all
amounts due, in which case the village will be entitled to attorney fees, court
costs, other collection costs, and interest at a rate of eight percent (8%) per
annum, until such amount, including costs and interest, is paid in full.
      5.   Cessation of any or all work on or pertaining to the petition by
village staff, employees or consultants.
Any portion of the escrow account which remains unused upon the termination of
the petition or the completion of any improvement contemplated by the petition
shall be refunded to the petitioner within thirty (30) days of the village's
receipt of the last invoice for professional fees or costs associated with the
petition. Further, the village shall provide the petitioner with copies of all
invoices received for professional fees or costs that are reimbursed out of the
petitioner's escrow account. The amount required to be deposited for the escrow
account shall be set by resolution of the village board and may be amended from
time to time, without notice.
   G.   Termination Of Obligation: Notwithstanding any contrary provision of
this section, the petitioner's obligation to reimburse the village for
professional fees and costs, and the accompanying obligation to maintain an
escrow account, shall continue until the developer fully satisfies all
obligations to reimburse the village, and shall in no event terminate earlier
than ninety (90) days after the last to occur of: 1) the petitioner's voluntary
termination of the petition and all work, projects or development associated
therewith; 2) the satisfactory completion of the work proposed by the petition
and all work arising therefrom (including, in the case of petitions for
annexation, all subsequent plats and the completion of construction of any
structures on the annexed property and the completion of all obligations of the
underlying annexation agreement); 3) the village's rejection of the petition in
its entirety, and the failure of the petitioner to indicate, within ninety (90)
days of such rejection, the petitioner's desire to continue working with the
village towards approval of the same or a modified petition. After the last to
occur of the foregoing conditions, the village shall finalize all invoices for
professional fees and costs, shall seek reimbursement from the petitioner for
all such professional fees and costs, and shall, after settling all such
invoices, refund any excess monies back to the petitioner. (Ord. 2006-12, 10-
25-2006)
9-3-6: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Remedies: In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, the proper authorities of
the village board, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceeding to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or
land.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this title shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (1999 Code § 5.42; amd. 2005 Code)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS 1
SECTION:
9-3A-1: Meetings And Procedures
9-3A-2: Powers
9-3A-3: Appeals
9-3A-4: Hearing; Action By Village Board
9-3A-5: Judicial Review Of Board Decisions
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  2-2-2 of this code.
9-3A-1: MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES:
Meetings of the zoning board of appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairman, or
in his absence, the acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote, or failure to
vote, of each member upon every question, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. All board of appeals action shall be a
matter of public record. (1999 Code § 5.44)
9-3A-2: POWERS:
The zoning board of appeals shall have the following powers:
   A.   Interpretation And Administrative Review: To hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged that there is an error in any action by the zoning official
or other administrative official in carrying out the provisions of this title
and for interpretation of the zoning maps.
   B.   Variations: To hear and decide on applications for a variation in cases
where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the way of
carrying out the provisions of this title.
      1.   Findings Of Fact: Before any variation is granted, the zoning board
of appeals must make a finding of fact that all of the following conditions are
shown to be present:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
         b.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         c.   A variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      2.   Conditions Of Variance: In granting a variation, the zoning board of
appeals may attach thereto any conditions and safeguards it deems necessary or
desirable in furthering the purposes of this title. Violation of any of these
conditions or safeguards shall be deemed a violation of this title.
      3.   Limitations On Board Powers: Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to give or grant to the zoning board of appeals the power or
authority to permit a use not generally permitted in the district involved.
(1999 Code § 5.46)
      4.   Fee: In order to partially defray the expense of public hearings
involving variations, the applicant shall pay the sum of three hundred dollars
($300.00) to the village treasurer at the time of filing the appeal for the
variance 1 . (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-5 of this title for recovery of costs.
9-3A-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: An appeal to the zoning board of appeals may be taken
by any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or determination by
any governmental officer, department, board or bureau based in whole or in part
upon the provisions of this title.
   B.   Filing Appeal: Such appeal shall be filed with the zoning official and
the zoning board of appeals within twenty (20) days of the action appealed
from. Upon appeal, the zoning official shall immediately transmit to the zoning
board of appeals all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken. (1999 Code § 5.45)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the zoning official certifies to the board that
a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In this
event, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the zoning board of appeals or by a circuit court
on application and on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and
on due cause shown.
   D.   Hearing: The zoning board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of the appeal, a notice of which shall be published at least once,
not more than thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation within the community. This notice shall
contain the particular location for which the variation is requested as well as
a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
   E.   Decision: The concurring vote of the majority of the zoning board of
appeals is necessary to reverse any order, requirement or decision of an
administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant. (1999 Code §
5.45; amd. 2005 Code)
9-3A-4: HEARING; ACTION BY VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   No variation in any case shall be made by the village board without a
hearing by the zoning board of appeals as required herein nor without a report
thereof having been made by the zoning board of appeals to the village board,
and every report shall be accompanied by a finding of fact specifying the
reasons for the reported recommendations.
   B.   Upon the report of the zoning board of appeals, the village board,
without further public hearing, may adopt or deny any proposed variation or may
refer the report back to the zoning board of appeals for further consideration.
   C.   No order for a variation permitting the erection or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months unless such use
is established within such period; provided, however, that where such use
permitted is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such
order shall continue in force and effect if a building permit for said erection
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(2005 Code)
9-3A-5: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD DECISIONS:
All final administrative decisions of the zoning board of appeals shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the administrative review act, approved
May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereto and the rules adopted
pursuant thereto 1 . (1999 Code § 5.46)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 100/1-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Exceptions To Requirements
9-4-2: Fences And Walls
9-4-1: EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Projections:
      1.   Residential Structures Into Yards: Architectural features of
residential buildings, such as windowsills, cornices, and roof overhangs, may
project into the required yard, provided such projection is not more than five
feet (5') and does not reach closer than five feet (5') to any lot line.
      2.   Business Structures Over Sidewalks: Signs, awnings, canopies, and
marquees are permitted to overhang the sidewalk in the C-1 general retail
district only; provided, that overhanging signs are a minimum of eight feet
(8') above the sidewalk at any point, and that all other structures are a
minimum of seven feet eight inches (7'8") above the sidewalk at any point.
      3.   Accessory Building Into Rear Yards: One story accessory buildings
may project into only rear yards abutting on an alley, provided such projection
extends not closer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line. (1999 Code § 5.37)
   B.   Height Limits: The height limitations of this title shall not apply to
church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy;
monuments, water towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, derricks,
conveyors, flagpoles, radio towers, masts and aerials. (1999 Code § 5.38)
9-4-2: FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Prohibited Fences And Walls:
      1.   The following fences and walls are prohibited:
         a.   Fences, including walls, and planting material used in the nature
of a fence, placed or maintained on any portion of any public right of way or
in any required yard which, by the nature of the materials used for its
construction, its design or location would impair public safety by interfering
with and obstructing the vision of persons using the streets, sidewalks or
driveways on or adjacent to such a yard. No such fence may be located within
the "sight distance triangle", as defined in section
 9-2-1 of this title, or ten feet (10') along the street right of way and
driveway when a street and driveway intersect, or along the street right of way
and an alley when a street and alley intersect.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1071.png]
 
         b.   Fences or walls constructed in whole or in part of electrically
charged wire, barbed wire, spikes, glass, protruding nails, or other sharp or
pointed material of any kind. Except, that barbed wire may be used on a lot in
the A-1 district when such lot is used for permitted agricultural purposes.
         c.   Chainlink fences with barbed ends up.
         d.   Chainlink fences with privacy insert strips in residential zoning
districts. Privacy insert strips may be used in chainlink fences in
nonresidential zoning districts, provided all of the inserts are of the same
color.
         e.   Snow fences, except for the exclusive control of windblown snow
between November 1 and March 31, or erected by state or local highway
authorities, or used exclusively for protection devices at excavation sites.
         f.   Fences constructed of less than 9-gauge wire.
         g.   Front yard fences. Front yard fences installed prior to the
effective date hereof shall not be replaced.
      2.   Exceptions to this subsection may be granted by petition to the
zoning official.
   B.   Location, Construction And Maintenance:
      1.   Fences and walls shall be located entirely on the lot of the
property owner constructing the fence or wall.
      2.   Fences may be located on public utility and drainage easements;
however, the village and the public utility companies having rights to use said
easement reserve the right to remove said fence to construct, repair or
maintain utility facilities with no obligation to replace or restore said
fence, unless so stated in the governing easement document. It shall be the
obligation of the property owner to locate all utilities prior to construction
of a fence.
      3.   The finished side of the fence or wall must face out from the
property of the property owner constructing the fence or wall.
      4.   No fence or wall shall be constructed or maintained in such a manner
as to obstruct, inhibit, impair or otherwise alter overland surface drainage
across any adjoining lot. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
   C.   Height Restrictions: For the purpose of this section, a side yard
extends from the required front yard to the required back yard. Fence height
shall not exceed the following limitations, measured above the street grade
directly opposite the fence, subject to the sight distance triangle rule 1 :
      1.   Residential: Rear and side yards, six feet (6').
      2.   Nonresidential: All yards, eight feet (8').
      3.   Exception: Nonresidential bordering residential, six feet (6').
(Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
   D.   Swimming Pool Fences: Swimming pool enclosures are regulated by the
village building code 2 .
   E.   Public Works Fences: Protection of pedestrians (public) as it pertains
to the work site is regulated by the village building code 3 . (Ord. 2004-10,
6-8-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Exemptions From Zoning Regulations: The provisions of this title shall
not apply to the following:
      1.   Fences constructed for the safety of children on park or school
playgrounds.
      2.   Planting material used in the nature of a fence, except as otherwise
prohibited by subsection A1a of this section. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 8-3-7 and
  9-2-1 of this code.
2 2. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
3 3. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
9-5-1: Districts Established
9-5-2: Zoning Map
9-5-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
9-5-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
9-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, all land within the village is hereby designated
on the zoning map as being in one of the following districts:
R-1 district - Single-family residential
R-2 district - Multiple-family residential
C-1 district - General retail
C-2 district - Service retail
I-1 district - Light industrial
I-2 district - Heavy industrial
PUD          - Planned unit development
A-1 district - Agriculture
 
(1999 Code § 5.04; amd. Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004; Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-5-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Adoption Of Map: The location and boundaries of the districts
established by this title are indicated upon the map entitled, "official zoning
map, village of Waterman, Illinois", which, together with all explanatory
matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this title. The official zoning map shall be on file in the village clerk's
office and shall be the final authority as to the current zoning status of land
and buildings, subject to such authorized amendments, which may be in effect.
   B.   Annual Publication: The board of trustees shall cause to be published
no later than March 31 of each year, a map clearly showing the existing zoning
uses, divisions, restrictions, regulations, and classifications. If, in any
calendar year, there are no changes in zoning uses, divisions, restrictions,
regulations, and classifications, no map shall be published for such calendar
year. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-14-2015)
9-5-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In the event that uncertainties exist with respect to the intended boundaries
of the various districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall
apply:
   A.   District boundaries are the centerlines of the streets or alleys,
unless otherwise indicated. Where designation of a boundary line on the zoning
map coincides with the location of a street or alley, the centerline of such
street or alley shall be construed to be the boundary of such district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets or alleys, but do coincide with lot lines, such lot lines shall be
construed to be the boundary of such district.
   C.   Where the district boundaries do not coincide with the location of
streets, alleys, or lot lines, the district boundary shall be determined by the
use of the scale shown on the zoning map.
   D.   When a lot held in one ownership on the effective date hereof is
divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be construed to be
within the more restrictive district.
   E.   All streets, alleys, public ways, and railroad rights of way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights of way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or
railroad right of way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas,
unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as
that of the property abutting up to such centerline.
   F.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following municipal boundary
limits shall be construed to follow municipal boundary limits.
   G.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   H.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   I.   Streets, alleys, public ways or railroad rights of way which are shown
on the zoning map and which have heretofore been vacated, or which may be
vacated hereafter, shall be in the same district as the land abutting both
sides of the street, alley, public way or railroad right of way involved. If
the land abutting each side of the street, alley, public way or railroad right
of way was located in different districts before the said street, alley public
way or railroad right of way was vacated, the centerline of such vacated
street, alley, public way or railroad right of way shall be the district
boundary line of the respective zoning districts. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-5-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be classified
A-1 district until otherwise classified by amendment as provided herein. In the
event owners requesting annexation of their property desire a classification
other than A-1 district, a petition shall be submitted for the desired zoning
classification simultaneously with the petition for annexation. (Ord. 2004-19,
8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Permitted Uses
9-6-3: Lot And Floor Area Requirements
9-6-4: Building Height
9-6-5: Yards
9-6-6: Off Street Parking
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the residence districts is to provide an area for residential
uses and those public and semipublic uses normally considered an integral part
of the residential neighborhood they serve. (1999 Code § 5.12)
9-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the residence districts:
   A.   R-1 district:
      1.   Single-family residence dwellings and home occupations, excluding
mobile homes and trailers.
      2.   Special uses, as follows:
         Churches.
         Golf courses, regulation size or par 3, but not including commercially
operated driving ranges or miniature golf courses.
         Government buildings.
         Parks, forest preserves and recreational areas when publicly owned and
operated.
         Two-family residence dwelling including two-story houses having a
complete apartment on each floor and also side by side apartments on a single
lot that share a common wall. Any structure in the village that meets this
definition in an R-1 district on the effective date hereof shall be deemed to
possess a special use and shall be a legal conforming use within the R-
1 district in which the property is located. (1999 Code § 5.13; amd. Ord. 2015-
02, 2-10-2015)
   B.   R-2 district:
      1.   Two-family dwelling, multiple-family dwelling, tourist homes and
lodging uses with accommodations for not more than fifteen (15) persons.
      2.   Special uses, as follows:
         Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the R-1 district
(subsection A2 of this section).
         Off street open parking areas, provided there is a need for such
facility in the interest of public necessity and convenience and that no
appropriate site is available in adjacent business or manufacturing districts.
         Public swimming pool.
         Rectories, seminaries, convents, monasteries and similar religious
institutions, including dormitories and other accessory uses required for their
operation.
         Schools: day or nursery, public or private; or public for preschool
age children, provided there is a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of
outdoor play area for each child to be cared for and that the play area is
fenced and screened with live plantings from all adjoining lots in any
residence district.
      3.   The following additional uses are permitted as special uses when
authorized by the village board after a public hearing and recommendation by
the planning commission. Such special uses shall be subject to the following
requirements and other requirements the planning commission or board of
trustees believes are necessary to further the purpose of the residence
districts and provide for the general health, welfare and safety of the public.
         Mobile home park: such mobile home park shall have permanent
accommodations for a minimum of five (5) mobile homes; each mobile home shall
have a permanent foundation and be connected to underground sanitary sewer and
potable water lines; the plan of development will provide a minimum of one
thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet per each mobile home; and no
mobile home shall be located any closer to the property lines of the
development than the appropriate yard requirement for the district would allow.
Planned unit development as set forth in chapter 9 of this title. (1999 Code §
5.14; amd. 2005 Code)
9-6-3: LOT AND FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   R-1 District:
      1.   Lot Requirements:
 
                                                     Minimum Lot Width Per
Dwelling Type             Minimum Lot Area Per Unit  Structure At Front
                          (Square Feet)              Building Line
                                                     (Linear Feet)
Platted, annexed,
subdivided, resubdivided
or incorporated into the
village with R-1 zoning   12,500                     85
after January 1, 2003, or
zoned R-1 zoning after
January 1, 2003
Platted, annexed,                                    The smaller of: a) the
subdivided or             The smaller of: a) the lot minimum width approved or
incorporated into the     size approved or           permissible at the time
village with R-1 zoning   permissible at the time    platted, annexed or
(or equivalent single-    platted, annexed or        incorporated into the
family housing            incorporated into the      village with R-1 zoning
predecessor zoning) prior village with R-1 zoning    (or equivalent single-
to January 1, 2003, or    (or equivalent housing     family housing predecessor
rezoned to R-1 (or        predecessor zoning) or at  zoning) or at the time
equivalent single-family  the time rezoned; or b)    rezoned; or b) the minimum
housing predecessor)      the lot size existing on   lot width per structure at
zoning prior to January   January 1, 2003            the front building line
1, 2003                                              for structure(s) existing
                                                     on January 1, 2003
 
      2.   Minimum Lot Size And Width: For purposes of this section, the size,
shape and layout of the zoning lot upon which any single- family dwelling that
was initially constructed prior to January 1, 2003, shall be prima facie
evidence of the approved or permissible minimum lot size and minimum lot width
at the time platted, annexed or incorporated into the village with R-1 zoning
or equivalent single-family housing predecessor zoning, and the property owner
and the village may conclusively rely on such evidence to determine the
permissible minimum lot size and minimum lot width relative to such individual
zoning lot. (Ord. 2007-02, 3-13-2007)
   B.   R-2 District:
      1.   Lot Requirements:
 
                         Minimum Lot Area Per   Minimum Lot Width Per
Dwelling Type            Family Or Rental Unit  Structure At Front Building
                         (Square Feet)          Line (Linear Feet)
Two-family               9,000                  125
Multiple-family          4,000                  150
Rooming or lodging house 1,500                  150
 
      2.   Minimum Floor Area: The minimum floor area for each living unit
shall be as follows:
 
Efficiency units 600 square feet
1 bedroom        900 square feet
 
(1999 Code § 5.15)
      3.   Minimum Contiguous Area: The minimum area for any R-2 district
established in the village after April 23, 2004, shall be forty thousand
(40,000) square feet. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-6-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Generally: No building, excluding garages, shall exceed three (3)
stories or thirty feet (30') in height, unless each side yard is increased over
the required minimum by five feet (5') for every five feet (5'), or fraction
thereof, of additional height over thirty feet (30'). In no case shall the
building height exceed forty feet (40'). The height of the building shall be
measured from the top of the highest foundation wall to the fascia; provided,
however, that buildings using mansard roofs shall be measured from the top of
the highest foundation wall to the top of the roof.
   B.   Garages: No attached or unattached garage in a residence district shall
exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet in size. The walls of any garage shall
not exceed ten feet (10') in height, and the highest point on the garage roof
shall not exceed the highest point of the roof of the principal residence. All
garages shall have the same or similar exterior siding as the principal
residence on the lot where the garage is located. (1999 Code § 5.16)
9-6-5: YARDS:
All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the R-1 and R-2 districts
shall provide yards of the minimum following depths:
   A.   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yards: Ten percent (10%) of lot width at building line on each
side yard.
   C.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Corner Lot Yards: Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each side
street, not, however, to reduce the buildable width of the lot below twenty
five feet (25').
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be constructed with a
minimum setback of five feet (5') from the side and rear lot lines. (1999 Code
§ 5.17)
   F.   Setback Requirements: Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this
code, including, but not limited to, those provisions pertaining to legal
nonconforming uses, any lot of record or zoning lot which was platted, annexed
or incorporated into the village with R-1 zoning (or equivalent single-family
predecessor zoning) and upon which any residential structures were constructed
prior to January 1, 2003, (hereafter "the effective date") shall have the
setback requirements for front yards, side yards, rear yards, yards of corner
lots and accessory buildings set so as to permit construction, renovation,
rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration or modification of any such
residential structures with the same or greater setbacks as existed on such lot
of record or zoning lot relative to such residential structures on the
effective date, provided that the use of the residential structure(s) is a
permitted use in the R-1 zoning district, or is subject to a lawfully issued
special use or variance. This definition of permissible setback requirements
shall be deemed to supersede any contrary provision of this code, including,
but not limited to, those restrictions contained in subsection
9-4-1A of this title. Any expansion of the footprint or building pad for any of
the residential structures contained on such lot of record or zoning lot or
construction of any new building on such lot of record or zoning lot beyond
that which existed on January 1, 2003, shall require compliance with
subsections A through E of this section, and all other applicable requirements
of this code. For purposes of this subsection, "residential structures" shall
be defined as a single-family dwelling and any of the following: 1) private
garage; 2) driveway; or 3) related structure which qualifies as an accessory
use to a single-family dwelling, contained on a single lot of record or zoning
lot. (Ord. 2007-02, 3-13-2007)
9-6-6: OFF STREET PARKING:
There shall be provided in the R-1 and R-2 districts adequate off street
parking in accordance with chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Uses In C-1 District
9-7-3: Uses In C-2 District
9-7-4: Building Height
9-7-5: Yards
9-7-6: Off Street Parking And Loading
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   C-1 District: The purpose of the C-1 general retail district is to
provide for a wide range of retail facilities and services of such a nature as
to be fully compatible in the close proximity they must enjoy in the central
business district.
   B.   C-2 District: The purpose of the C-2 service retail district is to
provide for those retail businesses and services which require a location other
than in the central business district being either highway oriented, requiring
larger tracts of land not normally available in the central business district
or to provide local neighborhood retail shopping facilities to that residential
area immediately adjacent. (1999 Code § 5.19)
9-7-2: USES IN C-1 DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the C-1 district:
      Any use permitted in a residential district (section
 9-6-2 of this title); provided, that no residential use may be established,
maintained, or permitted in the front portion of the ground level of any
structure except those residential uses established on the ground level as of
July 1, 1996, which shall be classified as legal nonconforming uses.
Residential use in the rear portion of the ground level of any structure,
regardless of when such use was established, shall be considered a permitted
use.
      Accessory uses or buildings.
      Business and professional offices: medical and dental offices and
clinics, law offices, insurance and real estate offices, banks and finance
companies.
      Food, drug and beverage: grocery stores, supermarkets, meat markets,
drugstores and liquor stores, bakeries in conjunction with retail sales,
restaurants, tearooms and taverns.
      Governmental buildings and facilities, including public libraries.
      Major retail outlets: furniture, department, clothing, shoe and variety
stores; hardware, appliance, paint and wallpaper stores.
      Motels.
      Service and recreation: laundromat, dry cleaning and laundry pick up
stations; barber and beauty shops; shoe repair and tailor shops; printing shops
with not more than ten (10) full time, regular employees; places of amusement
and assembly.
      Specialty shops: gift shops, magazine, book and stationery outlets;
florist shops; camera and photography shops; sporting goods, bicycle shops.
(Ord. 2015-02, 2-10-2015)
   B.   Special Uses: The following are special uses in the C-1 district:
      Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the R-2 district
(subsections
9-6-2B2 and B3 of this title).
      Automotive and related uses: new and used car sales, service and repair,
gasoline filling stations, motorcycle and bicycle shops, cab and bus stands and
depots.
      Frozen food lockers.
      Light food processing operations.
      Police and fire stations.
      Railroad right of way and trackage, but not including reclassification
yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
      Rest homes, nursing homes, hospitals, clinics and sanatoriums.
      Utility company offices. (1999 Code § 5.21; amd. 2005 Code)
9-7-3: USES IN C-2 DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the C-2 district:
      Any use permitted in the C-1 general retail district (subsection
9-7-2A of this chapter).
      Accessory uses or buildings.
      Building trades or equipment: building, concrete, electrical, masonry,
sheet metal, plumbing and heating shops; building material establishments
(provided no construction, millwork or concrete block manufacture is done on
the premises). (1999 Code § 5.22; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Special Uses: The following are special uses in the C-2 district:
      Any use which may be allowed as a special use in the C-1 district
(subsection
9-7-2B of this chapter).
      Heavy service and processing facilities: laundry and dry cleaning plants;
linens, towel, diaper and similar supply services; animal pounds, kennels and
veterinary establishments.
      Vehicle drive-in and heavy vehicle service: drive-in theaters; drive-in
restaurants and refreshment stands; express, cartage and trucking facilities;
large item machinery or bulk sales and storage not including outdoor, unfenced
storage. (1999 Code § 5.23)
9-7-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   C-1 District: In the C-1 general retail district, no building shall
exceed two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is less.
   B.   C-2 District: In the C-2 service retail district, no building shall
exceed three (3) stories or forty feet (40'), whichever is less. (1999 Code §
5.24; amd. 2005 Code)
9-7-5: YARDS:
All buildings to be constructed, altered or moved in the commercial districts
shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   A.   C-1 District: Yards required in the C-1 general retail district are as
follows:
      1.   Front Yard: Thirty five foot (35') minimum yard required in addition
to a ten foot (10') wide parkway.
      2.   Side Yard: No minimum yard required, except lots adjoining a
residential district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
that required in the adjoining residence district.
      3.   Rear Yard: Twenty feet (20').
   B.   C-2 District: Yards required in the C-2 service retail district, are as
follows:
      1.   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25') in addition to a ten foot (10')
wide parkway.
      2.   Side yard: Ten feet (10').
      3.   Rear yard: Twenty feet (20'). (1999 Code § 5.25)
9-7-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
There shall be provided in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts off street
parking and loading in accordance with chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2004-19,
8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Uses In I-1 District
9-8-3: Uses In I-2 District
9-8-4: Lot Area And Lot Width
9-8-5: Building Height
9-8-6: Yards
9-8-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   I-1 District: The purpose of the I-1 light industrial district is to
provide for commercial uses, storage and those manufacturing uses not normally
creating a nuisance discernible beyond its property.
   B.   I-2 District: The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district is to
provide for industrial uses not allowed in any other district; provided, that
within the I-2 district, uses of a hazardous nature or those producing
extensive smoke or odor shall not be located so that the general hazard or
nuisance affects a large segment of the community. (1999 Code § 5.27)
9-8-2: USES IN I-1 DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the I-1 district:
      Any use permitted in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts except
residential uses (subsections
9-7-2A and
9-7-3A of this title).
      Manufacturing: manufacture or processing of small items, including
gloves, footwear, bathing caps, shoes, boots, boxes and cartons, hardware,
toys, electric batteries, motors, generators, appliances and other electrical
devices; textiles products manufacture; food manufacture or processing,
including hatcheries, canning, freezing, storage and bottling.
      Other manufacturing uses of a light nature, free from any objectionable
odors, fumes, dirt, vibration or noise detectable at the lot line. Such uses
shall not be established without an application for a permit which shall be
accompanied by a certification by a registered engineer or architect indicating
that every reasonable provision will be taken to eliminate or minimize gas
fumes, odors, dirt, vibration or noise. In the event of the denial of such
permit, an applicant shall have a right of appeal to the board of appeals in
accordance with section
9-3A-4 of this title.
      Warehousing and storage: indoor and outdoor storage of goods and
materials, including warehousing, pole yards, building material storage and
trucking storage. (1999 Code § 5.28; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Special Uses: The following are special uses in the I-1 district:
      Airport or aircraft landing fields.
      Colleges and universities, including dormitories, fraternities,
sororities and other accessory buildings necessary for operation, but not
including business colleges or trade schools.
      Governmental buildings and facilities, including public libraries.
      Public service uses, including filtration plants, pumping stations and
water reservoirs, sewage treatment plants, police and fire stations, telephone
exchanges, electric substations and other similar public service uses.
      Radio and television stations and towers.
      Railroad right of way and trackage, but not including reclassification
yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
      Rest homes, nursing homes, hospitals, clinics and sanitariums. (1999 Code
§ 5.29)
9-8-3: USES IN I-2 DISTRICT:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the I-2 district:
      All uses not otherwise prohibited by law except residential uses;
provided, however, that the uses in subsection B of this section will be
permitted as special uses in the I-2 district when authorized by the village
board after public hearing and recommendation by the planning commission. (1999
Code § 5.30)
   B.   Special Uses: The following are special uses in the I-2 district:
      Adult uses.
      Airports or aircraft landing fields.
      Bag cleaning.
      Boiler and tank works.
      Central mixing plant for cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials.
      Coke oven, curing, tanning and storage of rawhides and skins.
      Distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar.
      Fat rendering.
      Forge plant.
      Foundry or metal fabrication plant.
      Gasoline or oil storage aboveground in excess of five hundred (500)
gallons.
      Manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol or alcoholic beverages, ammonia,
bleaching powder, chemicals, brick, pottery, terra cotta or tile, candles,
disinfectants, dyestuffs, fertilizers, linseed oil, paint, oil, turpentine,
varnish, soap or tar products.
      Public service uses, including filtration plants, pumping stations and
water reservoirs, sewage treatment plants, police and fire stations, telephone
exchanges, electric substations and other similar public service uses.
      Radio and television stations and towers.
      Railroad right of way and trackage, but not including reclassification
yards, terminal facilities or maintenance facilities.
      Salvage and wrecking operations, if located not less than two hundred
feet (200') from any residence district, provided all operations are conducted
within an area enclosed on all sides with a tight painted privacy fence not
less than eight feet (8') high, and provided, that such operation shall not be
visible from the nearest street or highway, and provided further, that cars may
not be stacked so that they are visible above the top of the fence.
      Slaughterhouse or stockyards.
      Smelting plant.
      Any use which, in the opinion, of the planning commission, would emit
detrimental or obnoxious noise, vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or other
objectionable conditions beyond the confines of its property. The planning
commission shall recommend village board approval if it determines that the
proposed use will not extend its detrimental or obnoxious effects beyond the
limits of the heavy industrial district in which it is located. Such special
uses shall be subject to any requirements the planning commission or board of
trustees believes are necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. (1999 Code § 5.31; amd. 2005 Code)
9-8-4: LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH:
Each use to be established in the I-1 or I-2 district shall provide a minimum
lot area of five thousand (5,000) square feet and a minimum lot width of fifty
feet (50'). (1999 Code § 5.32)
9-8-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building in the I-1 or I-2 district shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height
except for grain elevators. (1999 Code § 5.33; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 6-11-2024)
9-8-6: YARDS:
All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the I-1 and I-2 districts
shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
   A.   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yard: Unless otherwise stated, ten feet (10'), except where a side
yard abuts a residential district, in which case, a side yard of twenty five
feet (25') shall be provided.
   C.   Rear Yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (1999 Code § 5.34)
9-8-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
There shall be provided in the I-1 and I-2 districts adequate off street
parking and loading in accordance with chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2004-19,
8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 9
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose
9-9-2: Objectives
9-9-3: Regulations Governing Planned Developments
9-9-4: General Standards And Criteria
9-9-5: Application Procedures
9-9-6: Permits And Certificate Of Occupancy
9-9-7: Enforcement Of Development Schedule
9-9-8: Amendment To Final Development Plan
9-9-9: Postcompletion Regulations
9-9-10: Failure To Begin Development
9-9-1: PURPOSE:
The development and execution of zoning regulations is based upon the division
of the village into districts in which the use of land and buildings and the
bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land are
substantially uniform. It is recognized by the village that new types,
procedures and relationships in land development are emerging and that the
mixing of uses and variations in bulk regulations within districts can produce
very satisfactory, desirable and lasting results, if properly designed and
planned, without adverse influence upon surrounding property. The following
standards are established to provide flexibility, to encourage sound and
imaginative design, and to guard against the use of the planned development
technique solely as a means to intensify the use of land. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-
2004)
9-9-2: OBJECTIVES:
The planned development is intended to encourage improved design in the
development of land by providing relief from traditional zoning requirements
which are designed for conventional development but which may cause undue
hardship or complication for desirable but unconventional development, and to
establish standards and procedures for a planned development in order to obtain
the following objectives:
   A.   Environmental design in the development of land that is of a higher
quality than is normally possible through the strict application of general
zoning requirements.
   B.   Diversification in the use permitted and variation in the relationship
of uses, structures, open spaces and heights of structures in developments
conceived as cohesive, unified projects.
   C.   Provision for functional and beneficial use of open space.
   D.   Preservation, to the greatest extent possible, of the archeological and
historic resources and natural landscape features and amenities of a
development site and to utilize such features in a harmonious fashion in the
development.
   E.   Provision for a safe and desirable environment characterized by a
sensitive and unified building and site development program.
   F.   Rational and economic development in relation to public services.
   G.   Creation of a variety of uses, in compatible arrangements, to provide a
greater choice of living, employment and shopping environments.
   H.   Efficient use of land resulting in more economic networks of utilities,
streets and other facilities.
   I.   Coordination of architectural styles, building forms and relationships,
graphics and other private improvements. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-9-3: REGULATIONS GOVERNING PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   Except as modified by and approved in the ordinance approving a final
development plan, a planned development shall be governed by the regulations of
the district or districts in which the said planned development is located.
   B.   The ordinance approving the final development plan for the planned
development may provide for such exceptions from the district regulations
governing use, density, area, bulk, parking and signs, and the subdivision
design standards as may be necessary or desirable to achieve the objectives of
the proposed planned development, provided such exceptions are consistent with
the standards and criteria contained in this chapter. No modifications of
district requirements or subdivision design standards may be allowed when such
proposed modification would result in:
      1.   Inconvenient or unsafe access to the planned development;
      2.   Traffic congestion in the streets which adjoin the planned
development;
      3.   An undue or disproportionate burden on public parks, recreational
areas, fire and police protection, schools, and other public facilities which
serve or are proposed to serve the planned development;
      4.   A development which will be incompatible with the purpose of this
title and the goals and objectives of the Waterman comprehensive plan;
      5.   Alteration, destruction, or diminution of natural landscape features
such as floodplains, wetlands, fens, woodlands, prairie, rock outcroppings,
seeps, springs, or steep slopes; and
      6.   Alteration or destruction of archeological and historic features.
   C.   The planning commission may recommend to the village board and the
village board may grant a planned unit development which modifies the
applicable district zoning regulations and subdivision regulations upon a
written finding by the planning commission that the planned development meets
the applicable objectives and standards and criteria contained in this chapter.
Such written finding shall set out the reasons supporting each finding and
shall support each of the following standards and the applicable provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-9-4: GENERAL STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
No planned development shall be authorized by the village board unless the
planning commission shall find evidence establishing that:
   A.   The proposed development will not injure or damage the use, value and
enjoyment of surrounding property nor hinder or prevent the development of
surrounding property in accordance with the Waterman comprehensive plan.
   B.   The proposed development can be substantially completed within the
period of time specified in the schedule of development submitted by the
applicant.
   C.   The entire tract or parcel of land to be occupied by the proposed
development shall be held in a single ownership, or if there are two (2) or
more owners, the application for such proposed development shall be filed
jointly by all such owners.
   D.   The development plan shall contain such proposed covenants, easements
and other provisions relating to the bulk and location of buildings, uses and
structures and public facilities as are necessary for the welfare of the
planned development and are not inconsistent with the best interests of the
village. Such covenants, easements and other provisions, when part of the
approved final development, may be modified, removed or released only with the
consent of the village board after a public hearing before, and recommendation
by, the planning commission as provided in this chapter.
   E.   Sanitary sewers, storm sewers and water supply to service the
development are adequate to serve the proposed development and will not reduce
existing capacity below that necessary to serve existing developments, or
overload local facilities beyond design capacity.
   F.   The location and arrangement of structures, parking areas, walks,
lighting and appurtenant facilities is compatible with the surrounding land
uses, and any part of a proposed development not used for structures, parking
and loading areas, or accessways is landscaped or otherwise improved.
   G.   The project area is adaptable to unified development and shall have
within or through the area no physical features that will tend to destroy the
neighborhood or community cohesiveness. There is no minimum project area for
planned development.
   H.   The uses permitted in the development are necessary or desirable, and
the need for such uses is clearly demonstrated by the applicant.
   I.   The dominant land use of the proposed planned development is consistent
with the recommendations of the Waterman comprehensive plan for the area
containing the project.
   J.   Any modifications of the standards and specifications of this chapter
or other regulations that would otherwise be applicable to the site are
warranted by the design of the development plan, and the amenities incorporated
in it, and are not inconsistent with the public general welfare.
   K.   Exceptional landscaping features such as larger caliper, varied species
and reduced spacing of trees and additional sodding above the minimum
requirements specified in the subdivision code 1 .
   L.   All proposed streets and driveways are adequate to serve the residents,
occupants, visitors or other anticipated traffic of the planned development.
Entrance points or locations of streets and driveways upon previously existing
public roadways shall be subject to the approval of the village and, if
applicable, Clinton Township, the DeKalb County highway department, and the
Illinois department of transportation. If traffic control devices are required
to prevent or relieve hazards or congestion on adjacent streets and the
proposed control device is not within the normal or scheduled sequence of
installations, the village board may require, as a condition of approval of a
proposed planned development, such devices to be provided at the developer's
cost.
   M.   Off street parking is conveniently accessible to all dwelling units and
other uses in the planned development. Where appropriate, common driveways,
parking areas, walks, and steps to parking and service areas are to be screened
through ample use of trees, shrubs, hedges, land forms and walls.
   N.   A pedestrian circulation network is provided.
   O.   The planned development provides for underground installation of
utilities (including electricity and telecommunications) in public ways and
private extensions thereof. Provisions shall be made for acceptable design and
construction of storm sewer facilities including grading, gutter, piping and
treatment of turf to handle storm water, prevent erosion and the formation of
dust. Utilities and maintenance of facilities shall be in accordance with the
requirements and regulations of the village as set forth in this title.
   P.   The proposed planned development satisfies the applicable objectives as
provided in this chapter.
   Q.   Existing ponds, creeks, rivers, lakes, wetlands or fens on or adjacent
to the planned development are enhanced or protected from development. (Ord.
2004-10, 6-8-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  10-4-3C3 of this code.
9-9-5: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Requirements: All planned developments shall be processed and
reviewed in four (4) steps, subject to subsection F of this section, leading to
approval for recording and construction: preapplication conference, concept
development plan, preliminary development plan, and final development plan.
Prior to beginning the planned development review process, the applicant is
encouraged to obtain from the village a copy of this title, the subdivision
regulations (title 10 of this code), and building regulations (title 8 of this
code), and application forms. Applications shall be made on forms supplied by
the village and shall be made in accordance with the provisions of title 10 of
this code, except as specifically provided herein to the contrary.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: Before submitting an application for planned
development, the applicant shall confer with the village point team
(development team) to informally discuss the proposed planned development to
obtain information and guidance before entering into binding commitments or
incurring substantial expense.
   C.   Concept Plan:
      1.   Submission; Information Required: An applicant shall submit a
concept plan in accordance with the provisions of this title to the village for
tentative review and approval prior to incurring the expenses associated with
formal site plan submission in order to discover whether the village will
accept, or under what circumstances the village will accept, a planned
development of the type proposed at the site. The following items shall be
required:
         a.   Maps which are part of the concept plan may be in general form
and shall contain the proposed land uses, the natural features of the site, the
character and approximate density of dwellings, and the approximate location of
proposed thoroughfares and water, sewage and drainage systems.
         b.   The written statement shall contain a general explanation of the
size and character of the planned development, including a statement of the
present ownership of all the land within the planned development and expected
schedule of construction.
      2.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
concept plan within sixty (60) days after receipt of such plan, and shall
prepare a written report containing its recommendations to the village board
and the applicant. Approval of the concept plan does not guarantee approval of
the preliminary development plan.
      3.   Board Of Trustees Action: The village board shall accept or reject
the planning commission recommendation within thirty (30) days following the
date of action by the planning commission.
   D.   Preliminary Development Plan:
      1.   Required Information: The preliminary development plan shall contain
all items required for a preliminary subdivision plat as enumerated in title 10
of this code 1 . The following additional items shall also be required:
         a.   A plot plan for each building site and planned open area, showing
the approximate location of all buildings, structures, and improvements and
indicating the open space around the buildings and structures.
         b.   A preliminary drawing indicating the architectural character of
all proposed structures and improvements. The drawings need not be the result
of final architectural decisions and need not be in detail.
         c.   A development schedule indicating:
            (1)   The approximate date when construction of the project can be
expected to begin;
            (2)   The stages in which the project will be built and the date
when construction of each stage can be expected to begin;
            (3)   The date when the development of each of the stages will be
completed;
            (4)   The area and locations of planned open space that will be
provided at each stage;
            (5)   Proposed agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenants which
govern the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned development
and any of its planned open space or other facilities;
            (6)   A list of all departures from the district regulations and
the subdivision design standards that will be necessary for the proposed
planned development;
            (7)   A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the planned
development conforms with the purpose and the standards and criteria of this
chapter; and
            (8)   If the planning commission finds that the planned development
requires further in depth review, the following information may be required:
               (A)   A circulation diagram indicating the proposed movement of
vehicles, goods and pedestrians within the development to and from existing
village thoroughfares.
               (B)   A comprehensive drainage plan with analysis of the impact
that the development creates on the site and on the surrounding area.
      2.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
preliminary development plan and shall recommend whether it is in substantial
compliance with the concept plan and whether it complies with all other
standards in this title which were not considered when the concept was
approved.
      3.   Hearing: Upon completion of the staff review, the planning
commission shall, within ninety (90) days of receiving a preliminary
development plan, complete in all respects, hold a public hearing after due
public notice and recommend to the village board the approval or denial of the
proposed planned development. If the recommendation is to disapprove, the
report shall set forth the findings of fact related to the specific proposal
and shall set forth particularly in what respects the proposal would or would
not be in the public interest, including, but not limited to, findings of fact
on the following:
         a.   In what respects the proposed plan is or is not consistent with
the stated purpose of the planned development regulations.
         b.   The extent to which the proposed planned development departs from
the zoning and subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject
property, including, but not limited to, the density, dimension, area, bulk,
use and the reasons why such departures are or are not in the public interest.
         c.   The extent to which the proposed planned development meets the
requirements and standards set forth in this chapter.
         d.   The physical design of the proposed planned development and the
manner in which said design does or does not provide for adequate control over
vehicular traffic, provide for and protect designated planned open space and
schools, and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual
enjoyment.
         e.   The planned development's conformity with the recommendations of
the Waterman comprehensive plan, particularly the community design principles.
      4.   Board Of Trustees Action: Within ninety (90) days of the planning
commission recommendation, the village board shall approve with modifications
or disapprove the preliminary development plan.
      5.   Limitations On Approval: No plats shall be recorded and no building
permits issued until a final development plan has been approved by the village
board.
   E.   Final Development Plan:
      1.   Time For Filing; Required Information: Within one year following the
approval of the preliminary development plan, the applicant shall file with the
village a final development plan for the first phase of development, containing
in final form the information required in the preliminary plan. The final
development plan shall also include all items required for a final subdivision
plat and final engineering as enumerated in title 10 of this code 2 . In
addition, the following items shall be required:
         a.   A final land use plan, suitable for recording with the DeKalb
County recorder of deeds. The purpose of the final development plan is to
designate the land subdivided into lots as well as the division of other lands
not so treated into planned open area and building areas, and to designate and
limit the specific internal uses of each building or structure, as well as of
the land in general.
         b.   If subdivided lands are included in the planned development, a
subdivision plat of all subdivided lands in the same form and meeting all the
requirements of a subdivision plat.
         c.   An accurate legal description of each separate unsubdivided use
area, including planned open space.
         d.   Designation of the location of all buildings to be constructed,
and a designation of the uses for which each building is designated.
         e.   Final agreements, bylaws, provisions or covenants which govern
the use, maintenance and continued protection of the planned development and
any of its planned open space or other facilities conveyed to a homeowners'
association or similar organization.
         f.   Final development and construction schedule.
         g.   Final architectural elevations for all structures and amenities,
such as fences and walls, street furniture, and the like.
      2.   Approval Procedure: The final development plan shall be approved as
follows: (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
         a.   The planning commission shall, within ninety (90) days of
receiving a final development plan application, recommend approval if it is in
substantial compliance with the preliminary development plan. The planning
commission shall certify to the village board that the final development plan
is in substantial conformity with the previously filed preliminary development
plan and meets all the requirements for a final development plan.
         b.   If the planning commission finds that the final development plan
does not substantially conform to the preliminary development plan or that it
does not meet the requirements for a final development plan, it shall so notify
the applicant and the village board in writing within ninety (90) days of
receipt of a completed final development plan. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004; amd.
2005 Code)
         c.   The village board shall approve the final development plan if it
is in substantial conformance with the preliminary development plan and meets
all the requirements for a final development plan. It shall pass an appropriate
ordinance granting the PUD classification.
   F.   Combined Preliminary And Final Development Plan: The village may
consider a combined application for preliminary and final development plan
approval. In such instance, the final development plan shall include all of the
information required of a preliminary development plan and a final development
plan. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-3 of this code.
2 1. See section
  10-2-4 of this code.
9-9-6: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Permits: The zoning official shall approve the issuance of permits for
site or building construction for that part of the development plan that has
been approved in the area covered by the approved final development plan for
work in conformity with the approved final development plan and with all other
applicable ordinances and regulations.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy for any completed
building or structure located in an area covered by the approved final
development plan shall be issued if the completed building or structure
conforms to the requirements of the approved final development plan and all
other applicable regulations and ordinances of the village. The village
reserves the right to deny approval of an occupancy permit for any building or
structure shown on the final development plan of any stage of the planned
development if any planned open space or public facilities allocated to that
stage of the development have not been conveyed by dedication, deed or other
means to the proper authorities. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-9-7: ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE:
   A.   The zoning official shall periodically review all permits issued for
the planned development, examine all construction that has taken place on the
planned development site, and compare actual development with the approved
development schedule.
   B.   If the zoning official shall find that the owners of the property in
the planned development area have failed to meet the approved development
schedule, or that the rate of construction of dwelling units is greater than
the rate at which planned open space and public and recreational facilities
have been constructed and provided, the zoning official shall notify the
planning commission and village board in writing.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days of such notice, the village board shall either
revoke the PUD classification, and the land shall revert to its former
classification, or for good cause shown by the landowner, the limits of the
development schedule shall be extended for a reasonable time. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-
8-2004)
9-9-8: AMENDMENT TO FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
No changes may be made to the approved final development plan during the
construction of the planned development except upon application to the
appropriate agency under the following procedures:
   A.   Minor changes in the location, siting and height of buildings and
structures may be authorized by the planning commission if required by
engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the final
development plan was approved. No change authorized by this section may
increase the cube of any building or structure by more than ten percent (10%).
   B.   All other changes, in time schedule and in use, any rearrangement of
lots, blocks and building tracts, any changes in the provision of planned open
space and all other changes in the approved final development plan shall be
made by the village board, upon recommendation of the planning commission,
under the procedure authorized by this title for approval of the PUD
classification.
   C.   Any changes approved shall be recorded as amendments to the recorded
copy of the final development plan. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-9-9: POSTCOMPLETION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Upon completion of the planned development, and as a condition of the
village acceptance of the final public improvements, the zoning official shall
certify said planned development has been completed in accordance with the
approved final development plan.
   B.   After said certification has been issued, the uses of land and
construction, modification or alteration of any buildings or structures within
the planned development shall be governed by other provisions of this title.
   C.   After said certification has been issued, no changes may be made in the
approved final development plan except upon application to the village under
the procedures for seeking changes or amendments, special uses and variations
with respect to this title. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-9-10: FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT:
If no substantial construction has begun or no use established or no extension
is requested in the planned development within the time stated in the approved
final development plan and construction schedule, the PUD classification for
the planned development shall lapse upon written notice to the applicant from
the village board and shall be of no further effect. The land use and
development regulations applicable before the PUD classification for planned
development was approved shall then be in effect. In its discretion and for
good cause, the village board may extend for a reasonable time, not to exceed
one year, the period from the beginning of construction or the establishment of
a use, provided such extension is requested during the original period. (Ord.
2004-10, 6-8-2004)
CHAPTER 10
A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-10-1: Intent
9-10-2: Uses Permitted
9-10-3: Special Uses
9-10-4: Lot Area And Yards
9-10-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
9-10-6: Sign Regulations
9-10-1: INTENT:
The intent of the A-1 district is to maintain active and productive cropland on
the perimeter of Waterman and establish mechanisms to permit the development
and expansion of the agribusiness industry in the village of Waterman and
DeKalb County. This district may be located in any of the six (6) land use
themes in the Waterman comprehensive plan future land use map. The map symbol
and short name for the agriculture district shall be A-1. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-
2004)
9-10-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following are permitted uses in the A-1 district:
Agriculture.
Conservation area for flora and fauna.
Dwelling unit, farm.
Farm.
Farm buildings.
Farm drainage and irrigation systems.
Grazing and forage.
Nursery.
Private stable.
Roadside stands.
Tree and sod farms. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-10-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following are special uses in the A-1 district:
Agribusinesses.
Kennels.
Stables, public. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-10-4: LOT AREA AND YARDS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: Every dwelling unit hereafter shall be erected on a
tract of land defined as a "farm" in section
 9-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Every building hereafter erected or enlarged shall
provide and maintain a minimum setback of fifty feet (50') from the right of
way of any street.
      2.   Side And Rear Yards: All buildings shall have side and rear yards of
not less than twenty feet (20'). No portion of any roof may extend into a
required yard. Where a side or rear yard lies adjacent a street, the minimum
width of such yard for all buildings shall not be less than that established
for front yards. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-10-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Off street parking and loading requirements and setbacks for parking areas,
loading areas and access thereto are set forth in chapter 12 of this title.
(Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-10-6: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Sign regulations are set forth in title 8, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 2004-
19, 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
9-11-1: Purpose
9-11-2: General Provisions For All Nonconformities
9-11-3: Nonconforming Lots
9-11-4: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
9-11-5: Nonconforming Uses
9-11-6: Village Elimination Of Nonconformities
9-11-7: Exemptions From Provisions
9-11-8: Effective Date
9-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation and short term
maintenance of those nonconforming buildings, structures, uses and lots which
substantially and adversely affect the orderly development and taxable value of
other conforming property in each district, and to provide for the gradual
elimination of nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses to those that
conform to the provisions of this title by specifying the circumstances and
conditions under which nonconforming buildings, structures, uses and lots shall
be permitted with restriction in order to accomplish the objectives of this
code without undue burden to any single property owner, in accordance with the
authority granted by Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ALL NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Continuance Of Nonconformity: Any nonconforming lot, building,
structure or use which was nonconforming on the effective date hereof and which
remains nonconforming, and any lot, building, structure or use which shall
become nonconforming upon the effective date hereof, or of any subsequent
amendments hereto, may be continued, some for specified periods of time,
subject to the regulations of this chapter.
   B.   Enlargement Or Expansion: A nonconforming use of a building or
structure, or a nonconforming building or structure shall not be added to,
enlarged or expanded in any manner that increases the degree of the
nonconformity.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1073.png]
 
   C.   Maintenance And Repair: Normal maintenance and incidental repair or
replacement of fencing, nonbearing walls and partitions, fixtures, wiring,
plumbing, parking, landscaping and mechanical equipment may be performed on any
nonconforming lot, building, structure or use. Nothing in this chapter shall be
deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoration of an unsafe structure in
accordance with any order of a public official charged with protecting public
safety, and who finds such building or structure is unsafe in its then present
condition, and that repair or restoration is not in violation of the provisions
of this chapter governing the restoration of partially damaged or destroyed
buildings, structures and signs.
   D.   Accessory Uses: No new accessory use added to a lot which is
nonconforming or to a lot containing a nonconforming building or structure
shall increase the degree of nonconformity of said nonconforming lot or lot
containing a nonconforming building or structure.
   E.   Existing Nonconformities: Any nonconforming lot, building, structure or
use which existed prior to the effective date hereof which is made lawful and
conforming as a result of the provisions of this chapter shall be considered as
conforming. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-3: NONCONFORMING LOTS:
   A.   Substandard Lots Of Record:
      1.   Application For Variance: When a lot which is an official lot of
record at the effective date of this title does not comply with the area, yard
or other requirements of this title, an application may be submitted to the
board of appeals for a variance from the terms of this title in accordance with
section
9-3A-4. Such lot may be used as a building site; provided, however, that the
yard and other requirements of the district are complied with as closely as
possible in the opinion of the board of appeals. (1999 Code § 5.36)
      2.   Continuation Of Substandard Lots Of Record: In any district,
notwithstanding the regulations imposed by any other provision of this title, a
building which complies with the restrictions in subsection B of this section
may be erected on a lot that is not less than fifty feet (50') in width and
consisting entirely of one tract of land under single ownership that:
         a.   Has less than the prescribed minimum lot area and/or lot width or
depth or all three (3);
         b.   Is shown by a recorded plan or deed to have been owned separately
and individually from adjoining tracts of land at the time when the creation of
a lot of such size or width at such location would not have been prohibited by
this title; and
         c.   Has remained in separate and individual ownership from adjoining
tracts of land continuously during the entire time that the creation of such
lot has been prohibited by this title.
   B.   Yard Requirements: Construction permitted by subsection A2 of this
section shall comply with all the regulations (except lot area, lot width and
lot depth) applicable in the zoning district in which the lot is located;
provided, however, that the following said yard requirements shall apply in
place of the side yard requirements otherwise applicable: (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-
2004)
      1.   A building shall be placed on the lot so as to provide a yard on
each side of the residential building. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004; amd. 2005
Code)
      2.   Required side yards of main building shall not be less than ten
percent (10%) of the width of the lot, and in no case shall required side yards
be less than six feet (6') in width, and in no case shall a residential
building be located less than ten feet (10') from a building on an adjoining
lot. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-4: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Alteration: Any nonconforming building or structure may be altered or
remodeled; provided, however, that no such alteration or remodeling shall
either create any additional nonconformity or increase the degree of the
existing nonconformity of all or part of the building or structure; except,
that as to buildings or structures located on a lot which does not comply with
the applicable lot size requirements, the side yard requirements shall be
determined by subsection
9-11-3B of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall permit the structural
alteration of bearing walls and partitions of a nonconforming building or
structure which is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use, except
those structural alterations required by law, or except those necessary to make
the building or structure, and use thereof, conform to the regulations of the
district in which it is located. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
   B.   Restoration: In the event a nonconforming building or structure is
destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of nature, such building
may be restored only if the cost of reconstruction to its condition prior to
the casualty does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the replacement cost of the
entire building, and provided no restoration or reconstruction shall be
undertaken unless it is started within one year from the date of notice by the
zoning official of this provision or the date of the casualty destruction,
whichever is later, and completed within twenty four (24) months from the date
of the casualty. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Relocation: No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in
whole or in part to any other location on the same or any other lot unless
every portion of said building is made to conform to all of the regulations of
the district in which it is to be relocated.
   D.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any nonconforming building or
structure that is devoted in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged
or destroyed, by any means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of
the cost of replacement of the building or structure new, such building or
structure shall not be restored unless it and the use thereof shall thereafter
conform to all regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. When
such damage or destruction is fifty percent (50%) or less of the cost of
replacement, no repairs or restoration shall be made unless a zoning
certificate is obtained and restoration is actually begun within one year after
the date of such partial destruction and is diligently pursued to completion.
(Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-5: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of land or a building shall not be
changed to any use other than a use permitted in the zoning district in which
the use is located. When a nonconforming use of land or a building has been
changed to any permitted use, it shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use. For purposes of this chapter, a use shall be deemed to have
been so changed when an existing nonconforming use shall have been terminated
and a conforming use shall have commenced and continued for a period of seven
(7) days.
   B.   Alteration: Alterations designed to increase the intensity of a
nonconforming use, or to introduce new nonconforming uses, are prohibited.
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: In the event that any structure that is devoted
in whole or in part to a nonconforming use is damaged or destroyed, by any
means, to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of the cost of
replacement of the structure new, such structure shall not be restored unless
it and the use thereof shall thereafter conform to all regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located. When such damage or destruction is
fifty percent (50%) or less of the cost of replacement new, no repairs or
restoration shall be made unless a zoning certificate is obtained and
restoration is actually begun within one year after the date of such partial
destruction is diligently pursued to completion.
   D.   Relocation: No nonconforming use of land or building shall be moved, in
whole or in part, any distance whatsoever, to another location on the same lot
or any other lot, unless such use shall thereafter conform to all regulations
of the zoning district in which it is located after so moved. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-
13-2004)
   E.   Discontinuation Or Abandonment:
      1.   Nonconforming Use Of Land: When a nonconforming use of land, not
involving a structure or involving use of land, is discontinued or accessory to
the nonconforming use of land, is discontinued or abandoned for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive days (regardless of any reservation of an intent not to
abandon or to resume such use), such use shall not thereafter be reestablished
or resumed. Any subsequent use or occupancy of such land or structures shall
comply with the regulations of the zoning district in which such land is
located. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Nonconforming Use Of Building Or Structure: The abandonment or
discontinuation of any nonconforming use of a structure for a period of sixty
(60) days, regardless of any reservation of an intent not to abandon or to
discontinue such use, shall terminate any rights conferred by this chapter to
continue such nonconforming use. Any subsequent use or occupancy of such land
or structures shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district in which
such land is located.
      3.   Nonconforming Accessory Uses: No use which is accessory to a
principal nonconforming use shall continue after such principal nonconforming
use shall have ceased or been terminated. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-6: VILLAGE ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Procedures Generally:
      1.   In accordance with authority granted to municipalities for the
elimination of nonconforming uses and structures in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-1, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the village to
eliminate said uses and structures.
      2.   The zoning official shall inventory the nonconforming uses and
structures in the village and shall determine the assessed valuation, normal
useful life, and years in existence for each. Such inventory and determination
shall be kept on file by the zoning official and be a matter of public record.
      3.   The zoning official shall notify in writing the owner of each parcel
of land or each structure which has been determined to be nonconforming, at
least once every year. Such notice shall contain:
         a.   The normal useful life of the use or structure as determined by
the village board of trustees;
         b.   The date on which it was determined the use was commenced; and
         c.   The assessed valuation of the use or structure as determined by
the township assessor. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
      4.   Nonconforming structures or uses that are exempted from the
requirements found within subsections
 9-11-3A2 and B of this chapter. Sections
9-11-4 and
9-11-5 of this chapter and subsection B of this section are also exempted from
the procedures contained within this section.
      5.   The following is a check off type of list of the foregoing procedure
and is intended to simplify the implementation of this section.
         a.   The zoning official will create an inventory of the nonconforming
uses and structures within the village;
         b.   The zoning official will investigate the date in which the
nonconforming use and/or structure was believed to have been initiated to
determine the years that the nonconforming use and/or structure has been in
existence. If this information is not readily available, the zoning official
will send a letter requesting the date that the nonconforming use and/or
structure was initiated to the property owner(s);
         c.   The zoning official will note the assessed valuation of the
nonconforming use or structure as determined by the township assessor;
         d.   After proper notice and an opportunity to be heard has been given
to the property owners of each property deemed to be nonconforming, the zoning
committee will meet to review and discuss each property that has been found to
be nonconforming, and will then make a recommendation to the village board of
trustees as to what the zoning committee believes to be the date when the
nonconforming use and/or structure began and the normal useful life of each use
or structure that has been determined to be nonconforming;
         e.   After proper notice and an opportunity to be heard has been given
to the property owners of each property deemed to be nonconforming, the village
board of trustees will ultimately decide when the nonconforming use and/or
structure began and the normal useful life of each use or structure that has
been determined to be nonconforming;
         f.   The zoning official will keep the inventory and the determination
of assessed value, normal useful life, and years in existence on file, which
will be a matter of public record;
         g.   The zoning official will send a letter, at least once every year,
to the property owner of each property found to have a nonconforming use and/or
structure, which contains the determination of: the assessed value; the normal
useful life; and the years the nonconforming use and/or structure has until its
useful life expires;
         h.   Upon expiration of the normal useful life of the nonconforming
use and/or structure, notice will be sent to the property owner stating that
the useful life of the nonconforming use and/or structure has ended;
accordingly, the property must now strictly comply with the zoning requirement
(s) for that particular property. (Ord. 2015-02, 2-10-2015)
   B.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Elimination Required; Exceptions: Any structure or building, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, shall be removed and its use thereafter
cease, or shall be converted to a building or structure designed or intended
for a use permitted in the district in which it is located at the end of its
useful life as determined by the village board of trustees. Nothing in this
chapter shall apply to structures used for residential purposes in residential
zoning classifications.
      2.   Condemnation Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures:
         a.   The village, at any time and from time to time, by ordinance duly
enacted:
            (1)   May acquire by condemnation any nonconforming building or
structure, all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use
not permitted in the district in which it is located, and all land which is
necessary or appropriate for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the area
blighted by such nonconforming building or structure;
            (2)   May remove or demolish all such nonconforming buildings and
structures so acquired;
            (3)   May hold and use any remaining property for public purposes;
and
            (4)   May sell, lease or exchange such property as is not held for
public purposes, subject to the provisions of this title, or any amendment
hereto.
         b.   No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time
as the planning commission, at the request of the village board or upon its own
initiative, has made a study of the area within which such nonconforming
building or structure is located and has filed a written report on such study
with the village board.
   C.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses Of Land:
      1.   The nonconforming use of land shall cease ten (10) years from the
effective date of this title in each of the following cases:
         a.   Where no building or structures are employed in connection with
such use;
         b.   Where the only buildings or structures or other physical
improvements employed are accessory or incidental to such use or have an
assessed valuation of less than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00); or
         c.   Where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building or structure; except, that inadequate off street parking facilities
used in connection with a building, the use of which complies with the
requirements of the district in which it is located, may be continued for so
long as the premises are used for a permitted use.
      2.   A nonconforming use of land which is accessory to the nonconforming
use of building or structure shall be discontinued on the same date the
nonconforming use of the building or structure is discontinued.
      3.   Nothing in this subsection shall require the elimination of a
nonconforming use of land for residential purposes. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
9-11-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Whenever a lawfully existing building or other structure otherwise conforms to
the use regulations of the district in which it is located, but is
nonconforming only in the manner hereinafter specified, the building and use
thereof shall be exempt from the requirements of sections
 9-11-2 and
9-11-6 of this chapter:
   A.   In any residential district where a building is nonconforming only as
to the number of dwelling units it contains, provided no such building shall be
altered in any way so as to increase the number of dwelling units therein.
(Ord. 2004-05, 4-13-2004)
   B.   In any commercial or industrial district, where the use is less distant
from a residential district than that required in the regulations for the
district in which it is located.
   C.   In any district where an established building or structure, use or lot
is nonconforming with respect to the yard, parking, lot area, lot width, or
building height required in the district in which it is located. (Ord. 2004-05,
4-13-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
9-11-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date of this chapter shall be April 23, 2004. (Ord. 2004-05, 4-
13-2004)
CHAPTER 12
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Scope Of Provisions
9-12-3: General Off Street Parking And Loading Standards
9-12-4: Additional Off Street Parking Regulations
9-12-5: Schedule Of Required Parking
9-12-6: Additional Off Street Loading Regulations
9-12-7: Schedule Of Required Loading
9-12-8: Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent the congestion of the
public streets and to promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-12-2: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
The off street parking and loading provisions of this title shall apply as
follows:
   A.   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which buildings or uses are located. However, where a permit has been issued
prior to the effective date hereof, and provided that construction is begun
within one year of such effective date, and diligently prosecuted to
completion, parking and loading facilities as required hereinafter need not be
provided.
   B.   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises shall
be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating
capacity or other units of measurement specified herein for required parking or
loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be
provided for such increase in intensity of use.
   C.   However, no building or structure lawfully erected or use lawfully
established prior to the effective date hereof shall be required to provide
such additional parking or loading facilities unless and until the aggregate
increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than fifteen percent
(15%) of the units of measurements existing upon the effective date hereof, in
which event, parking or loading facilities as required herein shall be provided
for the total increase.
   D.   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure shall be changed
hereafter to a new use, parking and loading facilities shall be provided as
required for such new use. However, if the said building or structure was
erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or loading
facilities shall be required only in the amount by which the requirements for
the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were subject
to the parking and loading provisions of this title.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, no motor vehicle
shall be parked in the required front yard in any residential zoning district
unless said vehicle is parked upon a driveway. Said driveway shall be paved as
provided for in the definition of "parking space" in section
9-2-1 of this title. For the purpose of this section, a driveway must have an
appropriate curb cut if connected to a street. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-12-3: GENERAL OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS:
   A.   Existing Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served shall not hereafter be reduced below or, if already less than, shall not
further be reduced below the requirements of this title for a similar new
building or use.
   B.   Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking or
loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings; provided,
that all regulations herein governing the location, design, improvement and
operation of such facilities are adhered to.
   C.   Damage Or Destruction: For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date hereof which,
subsequent hereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off street
parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation; except, that
when such damage or destruction exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the value of the
building or use, sufficient off street parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required by this chapter for equivalent new use or construction.
However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain parking or
loading facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for equivalent
new uses or construction.
   D.   Computation Of Required Off Street Parking Spaces And Loading Berths:
When determination of the number of off street parking spaces and loading
berths required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in
excess of one- half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space or loading
berth. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
   E.   Location In Yards: Off street parking spaces and access thereto in
industrial or commercial districts or for nonresidential uses in residential
districts may be located in required rear, side or transition yards, except no
parking spaces or loading berths may be located within twenty feet (20') of
adjacent residential districts. Off street parking spaces in any zoning
district shall not be located within ten feet (10') of a front or corner side
lot line. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces And Loading Berths: Accessory
parking spaces and loading berths may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
building.
      2.   Screening And Landscaping: All open loading areas and all parking
areas providing space for five (5) or more vehicles shall be effectively
screened in accordance with the landscaping requirements in section
9-12-8 of this chapter.
      3.   Illumination: Lighting used to illuminate off street parking and
loading areas shall be directed away from all adjacent property and roadways.
      4.   Signs: Signs for the purpose of assigning parking spaces and loading
areas or giving directions thereto may be placed in parking and loading areas.
      5.   Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with accessory open off street parking or loading
facilities in any district.
      6.   Gasoline And Oil Sales: The sale of gasoline and motor oil in
conjunction with accessory off street parking or loading facilities shall not
be permitted in any district.
      7.   Curbing: The perimeter of all loading areas and parking areas
providing loading berths for one or more vehicles or parking space for five (5)
or more vehicles shall provide vehicular barriers around the perimeter of the
loading area and parking area. The vehicular barriers of such loading and
parking areas shall be continuous concrete barrier curbing, minimum six inches
by eighteen inches (6" x 18").
      8.   Striping: The pavement surface of off street parking and loading
areas shall be striped to define each loading berth and parking space. Striping
shall be a minimum of four inches (4") in width for the length of each space
and shall be painted white or yellow. All areas designated as fire lanes and/or
no parking areas shall be painted yellow.
      9.   Circulation And Access: Parking lot driveways on opposite sides of
an arterial or collector street shall be either aligned or off set by no less
than one hundred fifty feet (150') between the centerlines of each opposing
driveway. Parking aisles throughout the parking lot shall align as closely as
practical in order to create four-way intersections. Shared driveways and
access easements between adjoining lots shall be encouraged to reduce the
number of parking lot driveways along public streets. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-12-4: ADDITIONAL OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
In addition to the standards and requirements in section
9-12-3 of this chapter, accessory off street parking facilities shall conform
with the following:
   A.   Control Of Off Site Off Street Parking Facilities: When required
parking facilities are provided off site, that is on land other than the zoning
lot on which the building or use served by such off site facilities is located,
they shall be and remain in the same possession or ownership as the zoning lot
occupied by the building or use to which the off street parking facilities
serve until and unless the planning commission has reviewed the plans and heard
the applicant and made findings that the common ownership or possession of the
zoning lot and the site of the parking facilities are reasonably certain to
continue and that the off site parking facilities will be maintained at all
times during the life of the proposed use of the building.
   B.   Use Of Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities accessory to
residential uses and developed in any residential district in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles owned by occupants of the dwellings to which such
facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants. Required parking
facilities accessory to residential structures shall not be used for the
storage of commercial vehicles or the parking of automobiles belonging to
employees, owners, tenants, visitors, or customers of business, office or
manufacturing establishments. For the purpose of this subsection, "storage"
shall mean a vehicle parked on the zoning lot for more than forty eight (48)
hours in any seventy two (72) hour period.
   C.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Construction And Surfacing: Except as otherwise provided herein, the
construction and design of off street parking facilities shall be reviewed by
the village engineer to determine:
         a.   That every parking space, including access thereto, shall have an
all weather, dustfree surface and shall be so graded and drained as to dispose
of surface water accumulation by means of a positive storm water drainage
system connected to a public drainageway.
         b.   That parking areas shall be constructed in accordance with a
minimum structural number of 2.5 and a minimum surface slope of one percent
(1%); provided, that no parking area shall have less than two and one-half
inches (2.5") of bituminous surface course.
         c.   That every driveway approach shall comply with the following
standards. For the purpose of this section, a "driveway approach" shall mean
that portion of the driveway located in the right of way of a street.
            (1)   For residential uses: Six inches (6") of concrete with mesh
on six inches (6") of compacted crushed gravel or crushed stone.
            (2)   For nonresidential uses: Six inches (6") of concrete with
mesh on eight inches (8") of compacted crushed gravel or crushed stone.
            (3)   For sidewalks at driveway crossings: six inches (6") of
concrete with mesh on six inches (6") of compacted crushed gravel or crushed
stone.
         d.   Parking spaces and the access thereto for individual single-
family, duplex, two-family, and town home dwellings shall not require review by
the village engineer but shall be constructed of two and one-half inches (2.5")
of bituminous surface over eight inches (8") of gravel or crushed stone or four
inches (4") of concrete with a mesh grid over six inches (6") of gravel or
crushed stone and be graded so as to dispose of surface water accumulation by
means of positive storm water drainage.
      2.   Size: Except for parallel parking spaces and handicap parking
spaces, required off street parking space shall be one hundred eighty (180)
square feet in area and shall be no less than eighteen feet (18') long with a
vertical clearance of seven feet (7'), all exclusive of access drives, aisles,
ramps, columns, office or work space; provided, however, that in measuring the
length of a parking space, the area safely occupied by a vehicle beyond a curb
stop, whether paved or unpaved, shall be included. Each off street parking
space parallel to the parking aisle or driveway shall be no less than nine feet
(9') wide and twenty three feet (23') in length.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1075.png]
 
      3.   Access And On Site Circulation: Off street parking areas shall be
designed so as to require egress from the zoning lot to the street or alley by
forward motion of the vehicle.
         a.   Aisles: Each required off street parking space shall open
directly upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe
and efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. Aisle widths
shall not be less than the following:
            (1)   Twenty four feet (24') for any aisle designed for two-way
traffic;
            (2)   Twenty four feet (24') for each perpendicular parking space;
            (3)   Eighteen feet (18') for each parking space on a sixty degree
(60°) angle to the aisle; thirteen feet (13') for each parallel parking space
or parking space on a forty five degree (45°) or thirty degree (30°) angle to
the aisle; and
            (4)   Twelve feet (12') for each parallel parking space.
         b.   Parking Modules: A "parking module" shall mean a row of parking
spaces, a parking aisle, and another row of parking spaces. Parking module
widths shall not be less than the following:
            (1)   Sixty one feet (61') for perpendicular parking spaces;
            (2)   Sixty feet (60') for parking spaces on a sixty degree (60°)
angle to the aisle;
            (3)   Fifty three feet (53') for parking spaces on a forty five
degree (45°) angle from the aisle;
            (4)   Forty nine feet (49') for parking spaces on a thirty degree
(30°) angle from the aisle; and
            (5)   Thirty feet (30') for parallel parking modules.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1077.png]
 
         c.   Driveways: All off street parking facilities shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movement on the public streets.
            (1)   Intersection Setbacks:
               (A)   Driveways located along an arterial road right of way
shall not be located less than sixty feet (60') from an intersecting right of
way.
               (B)   Driveways located along a collector road right of way
shall not be located less than fifty feet (50') from an intersecting right of
way.
               (C)   Driveways located along a local street or cul- de-sac
right of way shall not be located less than thirty feet (30') from an
intersecting right of way.
            (2)   Street Transition: All parking facility driveways which lead
to or from a public right of way shall provide a transition space of not less
than thirty feet (30') in length from the public right of way to the nearest
parking space, an intersecting driveway or parking aisle along said driveway to
ensure traffic safety and circulation efficiency.
            (3)   Width: All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced,
or extended after the effective date hereof shall meet the following
requirements:
               (A)   No driveway for vehicular ingress and egress shall exceed
twenty eight feet (28') in width at the right of way and thirty four feet (34')
in width at the roadway in residential districts.
               (B)   No driveway for vehicular ingress and egress shall exceed
thirty four feet (34') in width at the right of way and forty four feet (44')
in width at the roadway in industrial districts.
   D.   Queuing Spaces: Queuing spaces shall be provided accessory to drive-up
service facilities in the number prescribed in section
9-12-5 of this chapter. Queuing spaces shall be located so as to not interfere
with parking or pedestrian and vehicular circulation on the zoning lot, or
circulation on adjacent public streets. Queuing spaces shall measure ten feet
(10') in width and eighteen feet (18') in length. Queuing space shall not
occupy the same spaces as parking or aisles thereto.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1079.png]
 
   E.   Location: The location of off street parking spaces accessory to the
use served shall be as follows:
      1.   Uses In Residential Districts: Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the use served. Parking spaces
accessory to uses other than dwellings in a residential district may be located
on an adjacent lot or directly across a street or alley from the lot occupied
by the use served, but in no case more than three hundred feet (300') from such
use.
      2.   Uses In Commercial And Industrial Districts: All required parking
spaces shall be not more than five hundred feet (500') from the use served,
except for spaces accessory to dwelling units which shall be not more than
three hundred feet (300') from the uses served. However, no parking spaces
accessory to a use in a commercial or industrial district shall be located in a
residential district; except, that private, free, off street parking accessory
to and located not more than two hundred feet (200') from such uses and
municipal parking lots may be allowed by special use permit in accordance with
the standards and procedures provided in chapter 13 of this title.
   F.   Parking Or Storage Of Recreational Vehicles And Trailers In Residential
District:
      1.   General Standards:
         a.   For the purpose of this subsection, racing cars/cycles are not
considered to be recreational vehicles.
         b.   Recreational vehicles shall not be used as accessory structures
in any district.
         c.   Recreational vehicles shall not have their wheels removed or be
affixed to the ground so as to prevent ready removal of the vehicle.
         d.   Recreational vehicles shall not be parked or stored in such a way
as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition.
         e.   No recreational vehicle, including attachments and appurtenances,
shall be parked within one foot (1') of a public sidewalk.
         f.   The ground under and surrounding where any such recreational
vehicle is parked or stored must be kept free of noxious weeds, overgrowth, or
debris.
         g.   No recreational vehicle shall be used for storage of goods,
materials, or equipment other than those items considered to be part of the
unit or essential to its immediate use.
         h.   No recreational vehicle shall be connected to gas, water, or
sanitary sewer service, except for temporary service connection for battery
charging.
         i.   No recreational vehicle may be temporarily occupied for more than
fourteen (14) days in any six (6) month period to accommodate visitors. Use of
internal cooking and sanitary facilities shall not be permitted.
         j.   Recreational vehicles may be stored in rear yards on a temporary
surface, including, but not limited to, gravel, patio blocks, or similar
material.
      2.   Parking And Storage Restrictions:
         a.   Not more than two (2) recreational vehicles conforming to the
size restrictions stated in subsection F2d of this section may be parked or
stored in the open on a lot in a residential district, except as set forth in
this subsection.
         b.   Recreational vehicles may be parked or stored in the side yard
and rear yard, subject to the standards set forth in this subsection, but not
more than one of the side yards of any residential lot may be used for parking
or storage of recreational vehicles.
         c.   No recreational vehicle, such as, but not limited to, camping
trailers, boat trailers, boats, snowmobiles, snowmobile trailers, all terrain
vehicles, camping buses, camping trucks, and house trailers, shall be stored in
any front yard or corner side yard in any residential district unless it shall
be located on a hard surfaced driveway.
         d.   No trucks, recreational vehicles, or buses which exceed nine feet
(9') in height, or twenty feet (20') in length, or eight thousand (8,000)
pounds in gross weight shall be stored in a driveway in any front yard or
corner side yard in any residential district.
         e.   For the purpose of this subsection, "storage" shall mean a
vehicle parked on the zoning lot for more than forty eight (48) hours in any
seventy two (72) hour period.
   G.   Handicapped Parking: Any parking area for use by the general public
shall provide parking spaces designated and located to accommodate the
handicapped in accordance with the international building code, 2000 1 . (Ord.
2004-19, 8-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
9-12-5: SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED PARKING:
For the following uses, accessory off street parking spaces shall be provided
as follows:
   A.   Parking Basis: Parking spaces required for floor area shall be based on
the maximum net floor area, herein defined, devoted to such use. Parking spaces
required for employees shall be based on the maximum number of employees on
duty, or residing, or both, on the premises at any one time. Where garages are
provided as accessory to residential properties, spaces in the garage shall be
counted toward the required parking spaces.
   B.   Floor Area Exemptions:
      1.   When two (2) or more nonresidential uses are located on the same
zoning lot, only one exemption in terms of floor area, as set forth in
subsection C of this section, may be permitted.
      2.   If on street parking is provided adjacent to the proposed use, an
exemption of one thousand (1,000) square feet shall be applied toward the
calculation of required off street parking spaces.
      3.   These off street parking regulations shall not apply to any use of
new buildings or structures, or any existing principal building or structure,
which is enlarged or increased in capacity in a commercial or industrial zoning
district, in whole or in part, within the area bounded as follows:
         Pine Street extended to Adams Street, on the west; Grant Street on the
north;
         Maple Street, extended to the Adams Street, on the east; and
         Adams Street on the south including all parcels having frontage on
Adams Street.
   C.   Schedule Of Parking Requirements:
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                           Parking Space Required
Boarding and rooming houses           1 space for each 2 rooms occupied by
                                      boarders or roomers
Hospitals and other institutions for  1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space for
care and treatment                    each staff and visiting doctor, plus 1
                                      space for each 3 employees
Multiple dwellings                    For buildings containing 3 or more
                                      dwelling units, 2 spaces per unit
Office uses                           1 space for each 300 square feet of gross
                                      floor area
Retail establishments                 1 space for each 400 square feet of gross
                                      floor area
Theater, auditorium (including school 1 space for each 4 seats available at
auditorium), church or other place of maximum capacity
public assembly
Tourist accommodations                1 space for each room offered for tourist
                                      accommodations
Wholesale, storage and manufacturing  1 space for each 3 employees
establishments
 
   D.   Other Uses: For uses not listed in subsection C of this section,
parking spaces shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most
similar listed use, or as determined by the zoning official. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-
10-2004)
9-12-6: ADDITIONAL OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Location:
      1.   Same Lot As Use: All required off street loading berths shall be
located on the same zoning lot as the use served. No loading berth for vehicles
over two (2) tons' capacity shall be closer than twenty five feet (25') to any
property in a residence district unless completely enclosed by building walls,
or a uniformly solid fence or wall, or any combination thereof, and not less
than six feet (6') in height. No permitted or required portion of a loading
berth shall be located within twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of
the intersection of any two (2) streets.
      2.   Yards: Off street loading berths in industrial or commercial
districts may be located in required rear, side or transition yards, except no
loading berth may be located within twenty feet (20') of adjacent residence
districts. No off street loading berth in any zoning district may be located
within a required front or corner side yard.
   B.   Size: Unless otherwise specified, a required loading berth shall be at
least twelve feet (12') in width, at least seventy feet (70') in length,
exclusive of aisles and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance
of at least fourteen feet (14').
   C.   Design And Maintenance:
      1.   Construction And Surfacing: The construction design of all off
street loading berths, and access thereto, shall be reviewed by the village
engineer to determine that such are constructed in accordance with a minimum
structural number of 3.25. A concrete surface shall be required for each
loading berth which serves a dock, ramp or elevator.
      2.   Circulation And Access: Off street loading areas shall be so
designed as to not require the use of any arterial or collector street for
maneuvering space into or out of the loading berth. Adequate space to
accommodate the turning radii of trucks and trailers, exclusive of any parking
spaces and landscaping, shall be provided.
   D.   Use Of Off Street Loading Facilities: Space allocated to any off street
loading berth shall not also be used to satisfy the space requirements for any
off street parking facilities or portions thereof.
   E.   Central Loading: Off street loading berths for separate uses, different
buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses may be provided collectively
in any zoning district in which separate loading berths for each constituent
use would be required; provided, that the total number of loading berths so
located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate requirements
for each use. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
9-12-7: SCHEDULE OF REQUIRED LOADING:
Off street loading berths shall be provided on the basis of gross floor area of
buildings or portions thereof devoted to such uses in the amounts shown in this
section. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
   A.   Determination Of Special Loading Requirements: The zoning official
shall determine any special exceptions for loading berths other than prescribed
for herein. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Loading Berth Basis: Loading berths required for floor areas shall be
based upon the maximum net floor area, herein defined, devoted to such use.
   C.   Less Than Minimum Floor Area; Receiving Facilities Required: Uses for
which off street loading berths are required, but which are located in
buildings of less floor area than the minimum prescribed for such required
berth, shall be provided with adequate off street receiving facilities,
accessible by a motor vehicle off any abutting street, driveway, or service
drive on the same zoning lot. (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
   D.   Exemptions: The exemption noted in subsection
 9-12-5B3 of this chapter apply to off street loading. No off street loading is
required for freestanding buildings that have less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet in gross floor area and are located in a commercial or industrial
zoning district.
   E.   Schedule Of Loading Requirements: Unless otherwise indicated, in the
commercial and industrial zoning districts, the loading requirements shall be
based on the floor area of the building(s) as follows: (Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-
2004; amd. 2005 Code)
 
5,000-10,000 square feet   1 loading berth
10,001-35,000 square feet  2 loading berths
35,001-70,000 square feet  3 loading berths
70,001-100,000 square feet 4 loading berths
Each additional 100,000 square feet or fraction thereof in excess of the first
100,000 square feet shall require 1 additional loading berth.
 
(Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
9-12-8: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the general design criteria prescribed in section
9-12-3 of this chapter, the following requirements shall also apply to off
street parking:
   A.   Scope: All off street parking lots designed for twenty (20) or more
parking spaces shall be landscaped in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   B.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping: To define circulation within a
parking lot and to visually and physically break up long rows of parking
spaces, landscape islands are required to be provided within parking lot areas
in one or more of the options, as follows:
      1.   Parking Aisle Landscape Islands: A landscaped island shall be
provided at the end of each parking row. The island shall be protected by a
continuous concrete barrier curb and shall have a minimum width of seven feet
(7'), measured back of curb to back of curb, and shall have a depth equal to
the adjoining parking space. Each parking aisle landscape island shall contain
two (2) shade trees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1081.png]
 
      2.   Parking Space Landscape Island: In addition to parking aisle
landscape islands, one or more of the following alternatives shall be used to
divide each row of parking having twenty (20) spaces or more:
         a.   Full Parking Space Landscape Island: One landscape island
protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and having a minimum width of
seven feet (7'), measured back of curb to back of curb, and a depth equal to
the adjoining parking space may be provided for each twenty (20) parking spaces
in the parking row. Said landscape islands shall be dispersed throughout the
parking row. Each said landscape island shall contain one shade tree; or
         b.   Partial Parking Space Landscape Island:
            (1)   One landscape island positioned at the front corner of a
parking space, protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and having
minimum dimensions of six and one-half feet (6.5') square, measured back of
curb to back of curb, may be provided for each ten (10) parking spaces in the
parking row.
            (2)   Said landscape islands shall be dispersed throughout the
parking row and shall not be used in parking rows along the perimeter of a
parking lot. Each said landscape island shall contain one shade tree; or
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1083.png]
 
         c.   Continuous Parking Row Landscape Island: A continuous landscape
island protected by a continuous concrete barrier curb and having a minimum
depth of seven feet (7'), measured back of curb to back of curb, may be
provided between parking rows. Said landscape island shall not be used in
parking rows along the perimeter of a parking lot. Each said landscape island
shall contain one shade tree for each twenty (20) parking spaces in the parking
row.
      3.   Additional Landscaping Standards: In addition to the shade trees
required in this section, each landscape island required herein shall be
landscape with an appropriate number and selection of shrubs, flowers, ground
covers, sod and mulch. Shrubs planted in a parking lot landscape island shall
not exceed a mature height of thirty inches (30") above the adjoining pavement.
No tree planted in a parking lot landscape island shall have branches
maintained at a height less than six feet (6') above the adjoining pavement.
   C.   Parking Lot Perimeter Landscaping:
      1.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
         a.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent to a front or
corner side yard in a residential district, continuous landscaping shall be
provided across not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the parking lot
frontage to a minimum height of three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall consist
of any combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, and/or other live planting material.
         b.   Where a parking lot is located in or adjacent to a front or
corner side yard not in a residential district, continuous landscaping shall be
provided across not less than sixty percent (60%) of the parking lot frontage
to a minimum height of three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall consist of any
combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, and/or other live planting material. Plantings may be placed in
clusters containing, at a minimum, seven (7) evergreens and/or shrubs per
cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately thirty five feet (35') along the
frontage of the parking lot. However, when a continuous row of shrubs or hedges
is chosen, the entire parking lot frontage shall be screened.
      2.   Rear And Side Yards:
         a.   Where a parking lot is located in a yard adjacent to a
residential zoning district, landscaping shall be provided as follows:
            (1)   Screening between the parking lot and the residential
property line shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in height.
            (2)   Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of one for
each fifty (50) lineal feet, or fraction thereof, of parking lot frontage and
shall not be planted more than forty feet (40') apart.
            (3)   Other planting material, including ornamental trees,
evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting materials, shall be
provided in a continuous row covering one hundred percent (100%) of the
frontage of the parking lot adjacent the residential lot(s).
            (4)   Except where occupied by planting beds, all side and rear
yard perimeter landscaping area shall be sodded or seeded.
         b.   Where a parking lot is located in a yard adjacent to a
nonresidential property, landscaping shall be provided across not less than
fifty percent (50%) of that portion of the parking lot abutting the property
line to a minimum height of three feet (3'). Such landscaping shall consist of
any combination of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
hedges, and/or other live planting materials. Plantings may be placed in
clusters, containing not less than seven (7) shrubs per cluster, spaced at
intervals of approximately thirty five feet (35') along the property line.
(Ord. 2004-19, 8-10-2004)
CHAPTER 13
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
9-13-1: Purpose; Categories Of Special Uses
9-13-2: Authorized Special Uses; Compliance With Provisions
9-13-3: Standards For Granting Special Use
9-13-4: Additional Standards And Criteria
9-13-4-1: Medical Cannabis
9-13-4-2: Adult Uses
9-13-5: Approval Procedures
9-13-6: Effect Of Denial; Resubmission
9-13-7: Termination Of Special Use Permit
9-13-1: PURPOSE; CATEGORIES OF SPECIAL USES:
Because of their unique and potentially harmful characteristics, certain uses
set forth in this chapter shall be located in a district or districts only upon
consideration in each case of the impact of such use upon neighboring land and
of the public need for such a use at the particular location. Such uses, hereby
designated as special uses, fall into two (2) categories:
   A.   Uses either municipally operated, or operated by regulated public
utilities, or traditionally affected by a public interest; and
   B.   Uses entirely private in character but of such nature that their
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-2: AUTHORIZED SPECIAL USES; COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
The village board may authorize, by ordinance (special use permit), the
establishment, operation or construction of any special use as designated in
each of the zoning districts. All of the other applicable provisions of this
title, including the requirements and restrictions of the zoning district in
which the proposed special use is to be located, shall be applicable to the
establishment and maintenance of such special use unless the ordinance
authorizing the establishment or construction of the particular special use
expressly provides otherwise. Subject to the standards contained in this
chapter, the village board shall have authority to permit special uses, as
designated in each of the zoning districts, of land or structure, or both,
provided the village board shall find that the proposed special use will comply
with the standards contained in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-3: STANDARDS FOR GRANTING SPECIAL USE:
A special use permit shall be granted only if evidence is presented to
establish that:
   A.   The proposed structure or use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is in the
interest of the public and will contribute to the general welfare of the
neighborhood or community;
   B.   The proposed structure or use will not have a substantial adverse
effect upon the adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood, traffic
conditions, utility facilities and other matters affecting the public health,
safety and general welfare; and
   C.   The proposed structure or use will be designed, arranged and operated
so as to permit the development and use of neighboring property in accordance
with the applicable district regulations.
   D.   Such other standards and criteria as are established for a particular
special use as set forth in section
9-13-4 of this chapter and as applied to planned developments as set forth in
chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-4: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
In addition to the standards and criteria established in section
9-13-3 of this chapter, no special use permit shall be granted for the use(s)
listed in this chapter unless evidence is presented to establish the standards
and criteria set forth herein. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-4-1: MEDICAL CANNABIS:
   A.   Special Use Permit Required: No person shall establish, operate, or
maintain a medical cannabis dispensary organization or a medical cannabis
cultivation center, as said terms are defined by state statute, without first
obtaining a special use permit authorized and issued by the village board in
accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in this chapter and in
accordance with Illinois statute 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130. (Ord.
2015-02, 2-10-2015)
9-13-4-2: ADULT USES:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section
 9-13-4-2, the following words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in
this subsection:
   ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, periodicals, magazines,
videotapes, or films for sale, for rental or for viewing on premises which are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical
areas; or an establishment with a segment or section devoted to the rental,
sale or display of such materials; or an establishment that holds itself out to
the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon its signage, advertising,
displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or coin operated booths,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which:
      1.   Features models, topless dancers, strippers, or male or female
impersonators;
      2.   Not infrequently features entertainers who display specified
anatomical areas; or
      3.   Features entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct,
perform in a manner which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient
interest of the patron or entertainers who engage in or are engaged in explicit
simulation of specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting films,
videotapes or other materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
entertainment cabarets, and other similar uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: 1. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         a.   Human genitals or pubic region;
         b.   Human buttock;
         c.   Human female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: 1. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
      2.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
      3.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts.
   B.   Special Use Permit Required: No person shall establish, operate or
maintain an adult use without first obtaining a special use permit authorized
and issued by the village board in accordance with the standards and procedures
set forth in this section.
   C.   Registration Requirements: The owner of a building or premises, his
agent for the purposes of managing, controlling or collecting rents, or any
other person managing or controlling a building or premises, any part of which
contains an adult use, shall register the following information with the
village clerk:
      1.   The address of the premises;
      2.   The name(s) of the owner(s) of the premises and name(s) of the
beneficial owner(s) if the property is in a land trust;
      3.   The addresses of the owner(s) and the beneficial owner(s);
      4.   The name of the business or establishment subject to the provisions
of this section
9-13-4-2;
      5.   The name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s), beneficial owner(s) or
the holders of ten percent (10%) or more of the issued shares, partnership or
member interest, of the business or establishment subject to the provisions of
this section
9-13-4-2;
      6.   The date of initiation of the adult use;
      7.   The nature of the adult use; and
      8.   If the premises or building is leased, a copy of said lease must be
attached.
   D.   Standards For Granting Adult Use: In addition to the standards set
forth in section
9-13-3 of this chapter, no special use permit for an adult use shall be granted
by the village board unless the board finds:
      1.   The design and operation of the facility will not adversely affect
the public health and safety;
      2.   It will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property
in the neighborhood in which it is located;
      3.   It will not unduly increase traffic congestion in the public streets
and highways in the area in which it is located;
      4.   It will not cause additional public expense for fire or police
protection;
      5.   It will not substantially increase the possibility of criminal acts
against persons and properties within five hundred feet (500') of such proposed
special use or against persons who regularly use such properties; and
      6.   It is located in a zoning district in which adult uses are allowed
as a special use and meets the location requirements stated in subsection E of
this section.
   E.   Location: Adult uses may be allowed, upon obtaining a special use
permit, in the zoning district(s) identified in permitted uses of this title;
provided:
      1.   That no adult use shall be located within one thousand feet (1,000')
of any property which is zoned or used for residences, churches, parks,
schools, or another adult use; and
      2.   That no adult use shall be permitted to operate within three hundred
feet (300') of the centerline of Elm Street, and U.S. Route 30 (Lincoln
Highway).
   F.   Prohibited Conditions:
      1.   Liquor: No liquor license shall be issued for any adult use, and no
liquor shall be sold or consumed on the premises of any adult use.
      2.   Exterior Display: No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that
permits the observation of any material depicting or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas from any public way or from any
property not registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, show window, or other opening.
   G.   Continuance Of Existing Adult Uses: Any adult use which existed
lawfully, but which became nonconforming upon the effective date hereof, may be
continued, as follows:
      1.   Upon written notice from the village to the owners or tenants
therein that any building, structure, lot or use is nonconforming under the
provisions of this title as to adult uses, the owners or tenants therein shall,
within two (2) months from the date of such notice, apply to the village for a
special use permit for an adult use.
      2.   Failure to apply for a special use permit for an adult use within
two (2) months of the notice provided in subsection G1 of this section will
require the amortization of the nonconformance within six (6) months of the
notice provided for in said subsection G1.
      3.   Nonconformances for which a special use permit for an adult use has
been requested shall be discontinued within one year of the notice provided in
subsection G1 of this section, unless a special use permit for an adult use is
issued by the village board. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004; amd. Ord. 2015-02, 2-10-
2015)
9-13-5: APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Issuing Authority: The village board is authorized to issue a special
use permit for special uses listed in this title and for planned developments,
subject to the standards set forth in this title and such conditions as may be
imposed pursuant to subsection D of this section. Prior to the issuance of any
special use permit, a public hearing shall be held and published notice shall
be given in the manner prescribed in subsections
 9-3-4C and D of this title.
   B.   Application For Special Use; Hearing: Any person having a proprietary
interest in the premises may file an application for a special use with the
zoning official. The application shall be in such number, in such form, and
contain such information as the zoning official may prescribe from time to
time. The zoning official shall process such application and hearing shall be
held in the manner prescribed for amendments by section
9-3-4 of this title.
   C.   Report Of Hearing To Board Of Trustees: Within thirty (30) days
following the hearing, the planning commission shall transmit to the village
board a written report giving its findings as to compliance of the proposed
special use with the standards governing special uses and giving its
recommendations for action to be taken by the village board. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-
8-2004)
   D.   Conditions And Restrictions: The planning commission may recommend and
the village board may impose such conditions or restrictions upon the location,
construction, design and operation of a special use, including, but not limited
to, provisions for off street parking spaces and the duration of such permit,
as they shall respectively find necessary or appropriate to secure compliance
with the standards set forth in sections
9-13-3 and 9-13-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Board Of Trustees Action: After receiving the recommendations and
report of the planning commission, the village board shall, within thirty (30)
days, review the recommendations and report and may accept the findings and
recommendations of the planning commission in whole or in part or may reject
them in whole or in part, or the village board may refer the matter back to the
planning commission for further consideration. However, in the event the
planning commission recommends against the issuance of a special use permit,
then it may be issued only upon the favorable two-thirds (2/3) vote of all of
the members of the village board. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-6: EFFECT OF DENIAL; RESUBMISSION:
After a public hearing, no application for a special use which has been denied
wholly or in part by the village board shall be resubmitted for a period of one
year from the date of said order of denial, except on the grounds of
substantial new evidence or proof of changed conditions found to be valid by
the planning commission and village board. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
9-13-7: TERMINATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
If the proposed special use is not established within one year from the date of
the authorization by the village board, the authorization shall become null and
void, and all rights thereunder shall lapse. Upon written application, the
village board may authorize a single extension of the time limit for a period
of not more than one year. (Ord. 2004-10, 6-8-2004)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
General Subdivision Provisions   1
Subdivision Plats And Procedures   2
Design Standards   3
Required Improvements   4
Master Plan   5
Public Open Spaces, School And Civic Contributions   6
Appendices   7
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Interpretation
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Easements
10-1-4: Variations And Exceptions
10-1-5: Enforcement Official
10-1-6: Prohibition Of Cluster Boxes
10-1-7: Penalty
10-1-1: INTERPRETATION:
The provisions of this title shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted
to promote the health, safety, morals, comfort, prosperity and general welfare
of the village, and this title shall not repeal, impair or modify private
covenants or public ordinances; except, that it shall apply whenever it imposes
stricter restrictions on land use. (1999 Code § 10.01)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   ALLEY: A public right of way which normally affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property. See section
10-3-2, table, "Urban Section Standards", of this title for standard widths.
   ARTERIAL STREET: A street which provides for the movement of relatively
heavy traffic to, from or within the village. It has a secondary function of
providing access to abutting land. An arterial street system is designated on
the village master plan.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A street which collects and distributes internal traffic
within an urban area, such as a residential neighborhood, between arterial and
local streets. It provides access to abutting property.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: That policy document which serves as a guide for the
future physical development of the village and entitled "Master Plan For
Waterman, Illinois" 1 .
   CUL-DE-SAC: A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other
end being permanently terminated to a vehicular turnaround.
   EASEMENT: See section
9-2-1 of this code, definition of "easement".
   HALF STREET: A street having only one-half (1/2) of its intended roadway
width developed to accommodate traffic.
   LOCAL STREET: A street of little or no continuity designed to provide access
to abutting property and leading into collector streets.
   LOT: A piece, parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as
a unit for transfer of ownership.
   PLAT: The map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan of
subdivision is presented to the village board of trustees for approval.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR: A. An assembly, structure, or design, including passive
elements, used for gathering, concentrating, or absorbing direct or indirect
solar energy, specially designed for holding a substantial amount of thermal
energy and to transfer that energy to a gas, solid, or liquid, or to use that
energy directly; or
   B.   A mechanism that absorbs solar energy and converts it into electricity;
or
   C.   A mechanism or process used for gathering solar energy through wind or
thermal gradients; or
   D.   A component used to transfer thermal energy to a gas, solid, or liquid,
or to convert it into electricity.
   SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun at wavelengths suitable
for heat transfer, photosynthetic use, or photovoltaic use.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A. Shall mean the following:
      1.   A complete assembly, structure, or design of a solar collector or a
solar mechanism, which uses solar energy for generating electricity or for
heating or cooling gases, solids, liquids, or other materials;
      2.   The design, materials, or elements of a system and its maintenance,
operation, and labor systems designed or constructed to interface with a solar
energy system; and
      3.   Any legal, financial, or institutional orders, certificates, or
mechanisms, including easements, leases, and agreements, required to ensure
continued access to solar energy, its source, or its use in a solar energy
system, and including monitoring and educational elements of a demonstration
project.
   B.   "Solar energy system" does not include:
      1.   Distribution equipment that is equally usable in a conventional
energy system except for such components of such equipment as are necessary for
meeting the requirements of efficient solar energy utilization;
      2.   Components of a solar energy system that serve structural,
insulating, protective, shading, aesthetic, or other nonsolar energy
utilization purposes; and
      3.   Any facilities of a public utility used to transmit or distribute
gas or electricity.
   SOLAR STORAGE MECHANISM: Equipment or elements (such as piping and transfer
mechanisms, containers, heat exchangers, or controls thereof, and gases,
solids, liquids, or combinations thereof) that are utilized for storing solar
energy, gathered by a solar collector, for subsequent use.
   SUBDIVISION: The subdivision of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots
or parcels for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or
if a new street is involved, any division or parcel of land; provided, that a
division of land for agricultural purposes into lots or parcels of five (5)
acres or more and not involving a new street shall not be deemed a subdivision.
The term includes resubdivision, and when appropriate to the context, shall
relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   VARIANCE (VARIATION): See section
9-2-1 of this code, definition of "variance". (1999 Code § 10.01; amd. 2005
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
10-1-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The planning commission may require easements for poles, wires,
conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and force mains or other
utility lines. Easements shall be at least ten feet (10') wide and may run
across lots or along side or rear lot lines. Such easements should preferably
be located along the rear lot lines.
      2.   The planning commission may require that easements or drainageways
be provided in accordance with this section where a subdivision includes a
segment or segments of watercourses, drainageways, channels or streams.
   B.   Types Of Easements: For the purpose of this title, easements shall
include: the utility easement, the drainage easement, the landscaping easement,
the sign easement and any other type of easement required for the operation of
the village.
   C.   Language Required On Plats: The following language shall be included on
all plats where an easement is required:
      No permanent buildings shall be placed on said easements, but the
premises may be used for gardens, shrubs, landscaping, and other purposes that
do not then or later interfere with the aforesaid uses and rights. Fences shall
not be erected upon said easements in any way which will restrict the uses
herein granted except where specifically permitted by written authority of the
Village of Waterman.
      The right is also hereby granted to the Village of Waterman to cut down,
trim or remove any trees, fences, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with
the operation of or access to said easements. The Village of Waterman shall not
be responsible for replacement of any such improvements, fences, gardens,
shrubs or landscaping removed during exercise of the herein given rights.
Replacement of items so removed shall be the responsibility of the then lot
owner.
   D.   Drainage Easements: Where drainage easements are required along a lot
line of adjoining properties, the developer shall divide the easement equally
among the adjoining properties, and if a storm drain is to be installed, said
drain shall be placed on or as close to the property line as possible. (1999
Code § 10.01)
10-1-4: VARIATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
Where the planning commission finds that extraordinary hardships or particular
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations, it may
be recommended to the village board of trustees variations or exceptions to
these regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; provided, that such variation or exception shall not have the
effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this title; and further
provided, that the planning commission shall not recommend variations or
exceptions to the regulations of this title unless it shall make findings based
upon the evidence presented to it, in each specific case, that:
   A.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
   B.   The conditions upon which the request for a variation is based are
unique to the property for which the variation is sought and are not
applicable, generally, to other property;
   C.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved, a particular hardship to the
owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict
letter of these regulations were carried out. (1999 Code § 10.01)
10-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The village code official shall have primary responsibility for enforcing this
title. No building permit shall be issued for construction on any lot until the
final plat for the subdivision has been duly recorded, or a certified survey
map is recorded. (1999 Code § 10.01; amd. 2005 Code)
10-1-6: PROHIBITION OF CLUSTER BOXES:
It shall be unlawful to erect and/or use neighborhood delivery and collection
box units or cluster box units within the village of Waterman. (Ord. 2012-27,
12-11-2012)
10-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and shall be responsible for the costs of prosecution for
each violation. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
separate offense. (1999 Code § 10.01; amd. 2005 Code; Ord. 2012-27, 12-11-2012)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Requirements
10-2-2: Preapplication Meeting; Sketch Plan
10-2-3: Preliminary Plat
10-2-4: Final Plat
10-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
With the exceptions stated in this section, whenever the owner of land within
the village or within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the village subdivides a
parcel of land into two (2) or more parts, any of which is less than five (5)
acres, he must have a preapplication meeting, and a preliminary plat, and a
final plat of the proposed subdivision must be approved by the board of
trustees before the plat can be legally recorded and sold. The provisions of
this title do not apply and no plat is required in any of the following
instances:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access.
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new street or easements of access.
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land. (1999 Code § 10.01)
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access. (1999
Code § 10.01; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access.
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purpose or grants or
conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use.
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances.
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land existing according to
765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/1(8) (the sale or exchange of parcels or
tracts of land following the division into no more than 2 parts of a particular
parcel or tract of land existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new
streets or easements of access.) (1999 Code § 10.01)
10-2-2: PREAPPLICATION MEETING; SKETCH PLAN:
Before filing a preliminary plat, the subdivider is encouraged to consult with
the planning commission and/or its consulting staff for advice regarding
general requirements affecting the proposed development. A sketch of the
proposed subdivision, drawn on a topographic survey map, should be submitted.
The subdivider shall also submit a plan locating the relationship of the
proposed subdivision to traffic arteries and existing community facilities.
(1999 Code § 10.01)
10-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Submission; Required Information: The subdivider shall submit to the
planning commission a preliminary plat based upon an accurate exterior boundary
survey by a registered land surveyor which shall show clearly the proposed
subdivision at a scale of not more than one inch per one hundred feet (1" =
100') having two foot (2') contour intervals, shall identify the improvements
(grading, tree planting, paving, installation of facilities and dedications of
land), easements which the subdivider proposes to make, and shall indicate by
accompanying letter when the improvements will be provided. Any proposed
restrictive covenants for the land involved shall be submitted.
   B.   Review; Planning Commission Recommendation: The planning commission may
submit a copy of the preliminary plat to the village engineer and land planning
consultant for review and written report of their reaction to the proposed
plat. After review of the preliminary plat and negotiations with the subdivider
on changes being advisable and the kind and extent of public improvements which
will be required, the planning commission shall issue a recommendation
regarding the preliminary plat within ninety (90) days from the date of the
application or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by
mutual consent. The action of the planning commission with respect to their
recommendation shall be made in writing, and shall state with specificity any
deficiencies noted in the preliminary plat based upon this title if disapproval
is recommended, or any conditions that may be required if approval is
recommended.
   C.   Acceptance Or Rejection Of Plat: The board of trustees shall accept or
reject said plat within thirty (30) days after its next regular stated meeting
following the action of the planning commission. Preliminary approval shall not
qualify a plat for recording. (Ord. 2004-02, 1-27-2004)
10-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Final plats shall be submitted to the planning commission within six
(6) months of preliminary plat acceptance unless this requirement is waived in
writing by the planning commission. The final plat shall conform to the
preliminary plat as approved and to the requirements of all applicable
ordinances and state laws. The final plat shall be accompanied by detailed
construction plans of all improvements. The final plat shall be presented to
the planning commission at least ten (10) workdays prior to the meeting at
which it is to be considered and shall be accepted or rejected by the planning
commission and the village within sixty (60) days of its submission, unless the
time is extended by an agreement with the subdivider. Reasons for rejection
shall be stated in the minutes of the meeting of the board of trustees, and a
copy thereof or a written statement of such reasons shall be recorded in
accordance with the statutory requirements prior to the time that lots are
offered for sale, reference is made to the map for sale purposes, or use is
made of lot and block numbers on the plat.
   B.   If the original of the final plat has been filed with another approving
authority, the subdivider may file a true copy of such plat in lieu of the
original. However, before approval of the planning commission and board of
trustees will be inscribed on the original of the final plat, the surveyor or
subdivider shall certify the respects in which the original of the final plat
differs from the true copy, and all modifications must first be approved. (1999
Code § 10.01)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Provisions
10-3-2: Streets
10-3-3: Lots
10-3-4: Blocks
10-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Generally, design standards shall assure that the layout of the subdivision
harmonizes with existing plans affecting the development and its surrounding
area and shall be in conformity with the comprehensive plan for the development
of the entire area. (1999 Code § 10.02)
10-3-2: STREETS:
   A.   General Street Design:
      1.   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographical conditions, to runoff of storm water, and to the proposed uses of
the area to be served.
      2.   Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their
projections shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the
minimum required width.
      3.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provisions for the proper projection of streets.
When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of such
unsubdivided land.
   B.   Street Width And Grades:
      1.   The planning commission may require the subdivider to conform to
urban section standards of subsection D of this section if the average lot
width in the proposed subdivision is less than one hundred fifty feet (150')
measured at the street setback line. If the average lot width is in excess of
one hundred fifty feet (150'), the subdivider may conform to the rural section
standards of subsection D of this section.
      2.   Unless necessitated by exceptional topography subject to the
approval of the planning commission, the maximum centerline grade of any street
or public way shall not exceed the following:
         a.   Arterial streets: Six percent (6%).
         b.   Collector streets: Eight percent (8%).
         c.   Local streets, alleys and frontage streets: Ten percent (10%).
         d.   Pedestrianways: Eight percent (8%) unless steps of acceptable
design are provided. The grade of any street shall in no case exceed ten
percent (10%) or be less than one-half of one percent (0.5%).
         e.   Street grades shall be established wherever practicable so as to
avoid excessive grading, the promiscuous removal of ground cover and tree
growth, and general level of topography.
   C.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
   D.   Street Intersections: Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at
right angles, and no intersection shall be at an angle less than sixty degrees
(60°). It must be evidenced that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged.
URBAN SECTION STANDARDS
Street Type ROW Width To Be Reserved ROW Width To Be Pavement Width (Face Of
                                     Dedicated       Curb To Face Of Curb)
URBAN SECTION STANDARDS
Street Type             ROW Width To Be ROW Width To Be Pavement Width (Face Of
                        Reserved        Dedicated       Curb To Face Of Curb)
Arterial street         120 feet        100 feet        Dual 24 feet (4 foot
4 lane divided                                          median)
Arterial street         80 feet         80 feet         48 feet
Not divided
Collector street        66 feet         66 feet         40 feet
Local streets 1,000
feet or more in length
for single-family       60 feet         60 feet         32 feet
development and in all
multi-family
developments
Local streets
Less than 1,000 feet in
length in single-family 60 feet         60 feet         30 feet
development and cul-de-
sac and frontage
streets
Alleys (curb not        25 feet         25 feet         16 feet
required)
 
 
RURAL SECTION STANDARDS
                 ROW Width To Be ROW Width To Be Pavement Width (Edge Of
Street Type      Reserved        Dedicated       Pavement To Edge Of
                                                 Pavement)
                                                 Dual 24 feet; 10 foot
Arterial street  150 feet        150 feet        outside shoulders; 4
4 lane divided                                   foot inside shoulders
                                                 (60 foot median)
Arterial street  100 feet        100 feet        24 feet; 10 foot outside
Not divided                                      shoulders
Collector street 70 feet         70 feet         22 feet; 8 foot outside
                                                 shoulders
Local streets    66 feet         66 feet         20 feet; 6 foot outside
                                                 shoulders
 
   E.   Cul-De-Sacs: Maximum length of permanent cul-de-sac streets shall be
five hundred feet (500') measured along the centerline from the intersection of
origin to end of right of way. Each cul-de- sac shall be provided at the closed
end with a turnaround having a minimum outside roadway diameter of eighty feet
(80') and a minimum street property line diameter of one hundred feet (100').
   F.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited except where the board
of trustees finds it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
   G.   Street Names: Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing and
named streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. In no case shall
the name of the proposed street not in alignment duplicate existing street
names, including phonetical similarities.
   H.   Private Streets: Public improvements shall not be approved for any
private streets.
   I.   Access To Arterial Streets And Highways: Where a proposed plat is
adjacent to an arterial street, spacing between access points to such
thoroughfares of less than six hundred sixty feet (660') and in commercial
districts, four hundred feet (400'), shall be avoided except where impractical
or impossible due to existing property divisions or topography.
   J.   Street Curvature: When a continuous street centerline deflects at any
one point by more than ten degrees (10°), a circular curve shall be introduced
having a radius of curvature on said centerline of not less than the following:
      1.   Arterial Streets And Highways: Five hundred feet (500').
      2.   Collector Streets: Three hundred feet (300').
      3.   Local Streets: Two hundred feet (200').
   K.   Hardship To Owners Of Adjoining Property: The street arrangements shall
not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in platting
their own land and providing convenient access to it.
   L.   Corners: Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a
radius of not less than ten feet (10').
   M.   Reverse Curves: A tangent at least one hundred feet (100') long shall
be required between curves on arterial and collector streets.
   N.   Alleys: Alleys shall be prohibited in residential areas unless special
permission is granted by the board of trustees for their provision. Alley
intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but where
necessary, corners shall be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular
movement. Dead end alleys shall be avoided, but if unavoidable, shall be
provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead end. (1999 Code §
10.02)
   O.   Maintenance: Streets included in approved subdivisions, except
designated state, federal or county roads, shall be maintained by the village
unless other written arrangements are made prior to final plat approval. (1999
Code § 10.02; amd. 2005 Code)
10-3-3: LOTS:
   A.   Layout: Where possible, lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines. Lots with frontage on two (2)
parallel streets shall be avoided except where one street is an arterial feeder
or highway with no direct access to the lot.
   B.   Size And Dimension: Minimum lot areas and lateral dimensions shall be
as set forth in the village zoning regulations.
   C.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall be platted at least ten percent (10%)
wider than the minimum lot width required.
   D.   Natural Features: In the subdivision of land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   E.   Lots Along Thoroughfares: There shall be no direct vehicular access
from residential lots to arterial streets or highways, and residential lots
shall be separated from railroad rights of way by a twenty five foot (25')
buffer strip, which may be in the form of added depth or width of lots backing
on or siding on the railroad right of way.
   F.   Lot Remnants: Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be
added to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an
unusual outlot or parcel unless the owner can show plans for the future use of
such remnant.
   G.   Boundary Lines: Lots shall follow, rather than cross, village boundary
lines whenever practicable. (1999 Code § 10.02)
   H.   Area And Width Requirements: Subdivision lots in the village and within
the extraterritorial limits under the jurisdiction of the village shall be in
conformance with the area and width requirements of the village zoning
regulations. (1999 Code § 10.02; amd. 2005 Code)
10-3-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be appropriate for the
topography and the type of development contemplated.
   B.   To provide access and circulation to community facilities, sidewalks
shall be provided by the subdivider, and where a block exceeds one thousand
feet (1,000') in length, a crosswalk through the center of blocks shall be
provided. Center crosswalks shall not be less than ten feet (10') wide. (1999
Code § 10.02)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Regulations For Public Improvements
10-4-2: Monuments
10-4-3: Street And Sidewalk Construction
10-4-4: Water And Sewer Systems
10-4-5: Streetlights
10-4-6: Public Utilities
10-4-7: Procedure For Approval And Acceptance Of Improvements
10-4-8: Financing
10-4-9: Snowplowing Agreement
10-4-1: REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Compliance With Provisions: All public improvements shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, including, but
not limited to, special assessments, village projects, and subdivisions. (1999
Code § 10.03)
   B.   Design Of Improvements: All design of the improvements shall be in
accordance with the following:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction Of The
Illinois Department Of Transportation (IDOT)", current edition.
      2.   "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois", current edition.
      3.   The most current version of the Ten States Standards, "Recommended
Standards For Wastewater Facilities".
      4.   Rules and regulations of the state of Illinois environmental
protection agency (IEPA), the Illinois department of transportation (IDOT) and
other state and federal agencies which may have jurisdiction.
      5.   "Procedures And Standards For Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Control
In Illinois", current edition.
      6.   Detail drawings for public improvements.
   C.   Review Of Specifications: The village engineer shall, from time to
time, review the specifications for improvements required by this chapter and
prepare any additions or modifications of such specifications and submit such
additional or modified specifications to the president and the board of
trustees for adoption. All specifications adopted by the village for the
improvements required by this chapter are incorporated in the applicable
sections by reference, and all improvements shall comply with the
specifications adopted by the village.
   D.   Existing Improvements:
      1.   In case of resubdivision or areas to be subdivided where any of such
improvements are already installed which meet the requirements of this chapter,
no further provision to duplicate such installation shall be required;
provided, however, that where such installations have become worn out, broken,
defective, or do not meet village standards, the subdivider shall be required
to repair and correct such defects.
      2.   If property for which an application to subdivide has been presented
abuts on or contains an existing public street which has width or pavement less
than required by chapter 3 of this title, the subdivider shall be required to
dedicate additional land sufficient to provide additional pavement to bring
roadway widths up to the minimum standards contained in chapter 3 of this title
before the approval of the property for subdivision or resubdivision. The
village engineer shall determine that proper adjustment is made where the
widenings merge with the existing narrow widths of pavement at the boundary of
the property and to require that the lanes are painted to designate driving and
parking lanes. The widening of the paving shall not be required where there is
less than seven hundred feet (700') of frontage. (Ord. 2012-12, 3-13-2012)
10-4-2: MONUMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) permanent monuments shall be placed at corners of
the subdivision. Permanent monuments shall be of concrete with minimum
dimensions of four inches by four inches (4" x 4") at top, six inches by six
inches (6" x 6") at bottom, and thirty six inches (36") long, with a copper
dowel three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter, at least two and one-half inches
(21/2") in length, embedded so that the top of the dowel shall be flush with
the surface and at the center of the monument.
   B.   All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by
galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least eighteen inches
(18") in length and not less than one- half inch (1/2") in diameter. The top of
the pipe or bar is to be set level with the established grade of the ground.
(1999 Code § 10.03)
10-4-3: STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Street Construction Specifications:
      1.   All new streets within the corporate limits of the village dedicated
or platted after the effective date hereof shall be improved with roadway
paving, in accordance with chapter 3 of this title.
      2.   Pavement improvements shall be in accordance with standards of the
village as follows:
Classification Subbase Base Surface
Classification           Subbase      Base          Surface
                                                  
Arterial                 4" aggregate 8" bitumen    3" bitumen (class I)
or
Arterial                 4" aggregate    -       8" PCC (reinforced)
Collector and industrial 4" aggregate 6" bitumen    3" bitumen (class I)
or
Collector and industrial    -      15" aggregate 3" bitumen (class I)
or
Collector and industrial 4" aggregate    -       7" PCC (reinforced)
Local streets and alleys    -      10" aggregate 21/2" bitumen (class I)
 
      3.   Aggregate for subbase, base and shoulders shall meet IDOT gradation
CA-6 and shall be one hundred percent (100%) crushed stone or crushed gravel.
      4.   Subbase for all pavements shall have a minimum IBR of 3.0.
      5.   All pavements shall have a transverse slope of one-fourth inch (1/
4") per foot.
      6.   All bituminous surface pavements shall be constructed using two (2)
separate lifts.
      7.   Alternate pavement designs that provide equivalent structural design
numbers may be submitted to the village engineer for review and approval.
      8.   All streets shall be designed using a "positive drainage principle"
where possible. No low points shall be allowed which would cause greater than
eight inches (8") of ponding in the event of a complete storm sewer failure.
   B.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided to serve the following areas:
      1.   Commercial Areas: Commercial areas shall be provided with portland
cement concrete sidewalks five inches (5") thick and a minimum of ten feet
(10') wide.
      2.   Arterial And Collector Streets: Arterial and collector streets shall
be provided with portland cement sidewalks five feet (5') wide, five inches
(5") thick, and located one foot (1') off the property line within the street
right of way, on both sides of the street.
      3.   Residential Properties: Residential properties shall be provided
with continuous portland cement concrete sidewalks on two (2) sides of the
street four inches (4") thick, four feet (4') wide, and located one foot (1')
off the property line unless an alternate location is approved by the village
engineer.
      4.   Driveways: All sidewalks shall be increased two inches (2") in
thickness through driveway approaches.
      5.   Concrete: Portland cement concrete sidewalks shall be constructed
using a "6-bag mix".
   C.   Street Signs, Guardrails And Landscaping:
      1.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs of the type approved by the
village shall be installed at each intersection.
      2.   Guardrails: Guardrails shall be placed along the shoulder of any
street where street construction has resulted in a drop off greater than six
feet (6').
      3.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees shall be planted by the subdivider.
There shall be at least one tree of a species acceptable to the board of
trustees and of at least two and one- half inches (21/2") in trunk diameter,
measured eighteen inches (18") above grade, for every fifty feet (50') of
frontage on all streets proposed to be dedicated. The required trees shall be
planted halfway between the curb or edge of shoulder and the sidewalk or right
of way line. Each tree shall be planted at least ten feet (10') from water and
sewer services. A tree planting plan shall be submitted to the village showing
the location and types of trees to be planted.
   D.   Street Grades: Street gradients shall be designed with proper
continuity for collector, secondary, and major arteries without abrupt changes,
and all intersections shall be properly platformed to prevent hazards. Said
platform shall be subject to review by the village engineer. The adjustment of
the grade of private driveways with the public roadways shall be subject to
review and approval by the village engineer and shall avoid abrupt changes or
drainage pockets.
   E.   Parkways: Parkways shall be graded in accordance with the grading plan
and seeded upon completion of the underground and surface improvements.
   F.   Traffic Control Devices: Regulatory traffic control devices shall be
installed as per the requirements of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices", Illinois department of transportation standards, and at locations as
directed by the village engineer. The traffic control devices may include, but
are not limited to, speed limit, yield, right of way, stop, no parking, weight
restrictions, pedestrian crossings, or other regulatory traffic signs and
necessary traffic pavement markings. All signs and markings shall conform to
the standards in the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and of the
Illinois department of transportation. Signposts and fasteners shall be of a
type equal to the current village standard. The village engineer shall make the
determination as to when such signs shall be erected. All signs and pavement
markings shall be maintained by the developer until the subdivision is accepted
by the village board.
   G.   Curbs And Gutters:
      1.   Concrete curbs and gutters shall be provided in accordance with
subsection G2 of this section.
      2.   All curbs and gutters installed on arterial streets shall meet the
specifications applying to IDOT B6.24. All curbs and gutters installed on other
streets shall meet the specifications applying to B6.12, and the thickness of
the gutter shall be not less than nine inches (9").
   H.   Pavement Marking: Pavement marking shall be provided at locations
determined by the village engineer. All pavement marking shall be thermoplastic
conforming to the "Illinois Department Of Transportation Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction In Illinois", latest edition.
(1999 Code § 10.03)
10-4-4: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS:
No subdivision shall be approved without water supply and sanitary sewer and
sewage treatment facilities in accordance with the following minimum standards
or the posting of security approved by the village board guaranteeing said
improvements in accordance with this chapter:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   The public utilities shall be installed in the parkways whenever
possible. If there is insufficient room or conflicts, the storm sewer shall be
installed in the center of the street.
      2.   All sewer and water main trenches shall be undercut four inches (4")
and the pipe laid on a four inch (4") cushion of approved bedding material.
      3.   All underground improvements shall be completed prior to any surface
improvements.
      4.   All manhole covers shall be imprinted with a description of the
particular utility involved, such as water, storm sewer, or sanitary sewer.
(1999 Code § 10.03)
   B.   Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   A complete system of sanitary sewers shall be constructed throughout
the development allowing for the extension of the village sewer system to
adjacent areas.
      2.   Only sanitary sewers shall be connected to the sanitary sewer
system.
      3.   Sewage lift stations will not be permitted unless they are required
in the opinion of the village engineer.
      4.   The minimum size public sanitary sewer shall be eight inches (8") in
diameter.
      5.   Sanitary sewers shall be designed to flow no more than sixty percent
(60%) full. The sewers will be designed in such a way as to ensure a minimum
velocity of flow of two feet (2') per second and a maximum velocity of flow of
eight feet (8') per second.
      6.   All sanitary sewers and services shall be constructed of PVC type
PSM conforming to ASTM D-3034 and shall be SDR 26, with elastomeric gasket type
joints complying with ASTM D1869 and ASTM D3212, or ductile iron pipe
conforming to ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C-151), class 52 per ANSI A21.50 (AWWA C-150)
and bitumen coated and cement lined per ANSI A21.4 (AWWA C-104).
      7.   Minimum cover on any sanitary sewer shall be three feet zero inches
(3'0"). Sewers in excess of twenty feet zero inches (20'0") cover shall be
ductile iron class 54 bitumen coated and cement lined. Risers shall be required
where sewers are over twelve feet zero inches (12'0") deep or more, and shall
extend to within an eight foot zero inch (8'0") grade.
      8.   PVC pipe shall be installed per ASTM D-2321 using class I material.
      9.   All sanitary sewer manholes shall be a minimum of four feet zero
inches (4'0") in diameter, of the precast concrete type, with an elastomeric
band seal and rubber boot, and spaced not more than four hundred feet (400')
apart.
      10.   Maximum allowable infiltration shall be two hundred (200) gallons/
day/inch diameter/mile of sewer.
      11.   A sanitary service line shall be installed near the center of each
residential lot at the time of the sanitary sewer installation, and shall
extend to within one foot (1') of the property line.
      12.   Wye branches shall be factory manufactured and permanently affixed
to the main sewer.
      13.   Curvilinear sanitary sewers shall not be allowed.
      14.   All community sewerage systems shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with the village master plan for sanitary sewers.
      15.   Sewer testing shall include air testing, infiltration testing, and
closed circuit television testing of sewers eight inches (8") in diameter or
larger.
   C.   Water Mains:
      1.   A complete water supply and distribution system, including all
appurtenances, shall be installed.
      2.   The water system shall be looped to eliminate dead end water mains.
      3.   Water mains shall not be less than eight inches (8") internal
diameter. Water mains of larger diameter shall be installed where determined to
be needed by the village engineer.
      4.   Valves shall be located so that in the event of a single break, not
more than one thousand feet (1,000') of main will be out of service and require
the closing of not more than three (3) valves. Valves shall conform to the
following requirements:
         a.   Valves up to and including twelve inches (12") in diameter shall
conform to the latest standards of AWWA C509 for resilient seated gate valves.
         b.   Valves fourteen inches (14") in diameter and larger shall conform
to the latest standards of AWWA C504, class 150B for butterfly valves.
         c.   All valves shall be installed in precast vaults.
         d.   Vaults shall be forty eight inches (48") in diameter for eight
inch (8") water mains and smaller.
         e.   Vaults shall be sixty inches (60") in diameter for ten inch (10")
water mains and larger.
         f.   Valves shall not be located under streets, driveways, or other
pavements.
      5.   a. Fire hydrants shall be installed throughout the entire
development, located at intervals not to exceed four hundred feet (400'). No
house shall be more than two hundred feet (200') from a hydrant. Hydrants shall
be of a type conforming to that used in the village. Hydrants shall be Mueller
centurion type with breakaway flange with two (2) 21/2-inch and one 41/2-inch
fire hose connections with national standard threads. The seat valve shall be
five and one-fourth inches (51/4"). An auxiliary valve, box and cover (marked
"WATER") shall be provided for each hydrant.
         b.   Dry hydrants shall be installed at all water reservoirs. The
village engineer shall determine the location, quantity and the need for same.
(Ord. 2012-12, 3-13-2012)
      6.   Water mains shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe conforming to
ANSI A21.51 (AWWA C-151), thickness class 52 per ANSI A21.50 (AWWA C-150), and
cement lined per ANSI A21.4 (AWWA C-205) or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe
conforming to AWWA standard C 900 installed in accordance with ASTM D-2321 or
high density polyethylene (HDPE) pipe conforming to AWWA standard PE 3608
pressure rating DR 9.0. (Ord. 2013-06, 7-9-2013)
      7.   The depth between the finished grade and the top of the water main
shall be not less than five feet (5') nor more than six feet (6'). Where
conflicts arise with other underground improvements, greater depths will be
allowed.
      8.   All water mains shall be located in the parkway, approximately ten
feet zero inches (10'0") from the property line, or as otherwise approved by
the village engineer.
      9.   Water mains to be installed in corrosive soils shall be wrapped with
a polyethylene sheet, tied or taped securely in place, with a thickness of
eight (8) mils, and complying with ASTM D1248.
      10.   Connections to the existing water system shall be made by pressure
tap unless a connection can be made without leaving any current customer
without service.
      11.   A separate water service tap and building service line shall be
provided for each building lot. Shared or branched service connections shall
not be allowed.
      12.   Building service connections from the curb box to the structure
shall be made only at the time of building construction. All service taps shall
be made with a manufactured tap corporation stop. The standard service
connection size is one inch (1"). Curb boxes shall be Minneapolis pattern.
Standard service pipe material is type K copper tubing ASTM B-88.
      13.   The need for additional water supply and storage will be determined
on a case by case basis.
      14.   Water meters, which meet the requirements of the village engineer,
are to be installed and paid for by the developer. (Ord. 2012-12, 3-13-2012)
   D.   Storm Sewers:
      1.   A complete system of storm sewers shall be constructed to drain the
development and any contiguous drainage areas. The developer shall submit to
the village engineer two (2) copies of the storm drainage computations.
      2.   No increase in stormwater runoff shall be directed to any existing
watercourse or drainage system.
      3.   The method to be employed when computing storm runoff shall be
approved by the village engineer. A 10-year storm shall be used for storm sewer
design purposes. The storm system shall be designed with "positive street and
swale drainage" such that in the event of a complete storm system failure,
stormwater runoff will be provided overland to the stormwater detention area
and will cause no property damage due to flooding.
      4.   Storm sewers shall be designed to flow full, using Manning's
formula, with a roughness coefficient of 0.013. When the storm sewer system
discharge is determined to be submerged, the sewers shall be designed using the
"hydraulic profile" and a maximum water level elevation in manholes of one foot
zero inches (1'0") below the flow line of the gutter.
      5.   Storm sewers shall be designed, when flowing full, to have a minimum
velocity of two and one-half feet (21/2') per second and a maximum velocity not
to exceed eight feet (8') per second.
      6.   All inlets shall be installed so that the distance between each
inlet shall not exceed two hundred fifty feet (250'), and each inlet shall
drain a maximum street gutter length of two hundred fifty feet (250'). Where
the inlet is located at a low point, additional inlets may be required by the
village engineer. No more than two (2) inlets shall be interconnected. Inlets
shall be so located that stormwater runoff will not "pond". Depressed street
crowns to facilitate drainage will not be allowed.
      7.   Catch basins with sumps are to be located in the storm sewer system
in such a manner as to protect the sewer mains and downstream detention areas
from silt and debris.
      8.   Rear yard inlets shall be placed where required by the village
engineer.
      9.   The minimum size storm sewer shall be twelve inches (12") in
diameter, and minimum size inlet connections shall be ten inches (10") in
diameter.
      10.   Minimum cover shall be three feet zero inches (3'0") for all storm
sewers unless special precautions are taken to protect the pipe, as approved by
the village engineer.
      11.   Storm sewers shall be class four (4) reinforced concrete pipe
conforming to ASTM C76 with O-ring joints conforming to ASTM C443.
      12.   All catch basins, manholes, inlet manholes, inlets, and headwalls
shall be designed in accordance with the standard details of the village.
      13.   Storm detention is subject to the review of the village engineer.
In concept, the detention pond shall have a high water level based on a 100-
year design storm and shall have an outlet which allows runoff with an
intensity no greater than the land in its natural state prior to development.
The maximum allowable release rate is 0.15 cubic feet per second per acre for
any design storm frequency up to the 100-year event. Illinois state water
survey bulletin 70 shall be used for design storm data. The detention area
shall have a single emergency overflow to drain waters in excess of the volume
provided in the detention area.
      14.   The design of storm detention facilities shall be based on runoff
hydrographs from the 2-year and 100-year frequency, twenty four (24) hour
duration rainstorms. All design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
state water survey, bulletin 70.
      15.   Wet bottom detention basins shall be designed to be safe,
aesthetically pleasing, and available for recreational use. Wet bottom basins
shall be at least four feet (4') deep, excluding near shore banks and safety
ledges. If fish habitat is provided, at least twenty five percent (25%) of the
basin bottom shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') deep. Wet bottom basins shall
be designed to remove stormwater pollutants and designed with an aeration
system or in such a manner to reduce nuisance problems such as algae.
      16.   Dry bottom detention basins shall be designed to be safe,
aesthetically pleasing and available for multiple uses. The basin shall have a
minimum bottom slope of two percent (2%) and a maximum embankment slope of
twenty five percent (25%).
      17.   All sites no longer in a natural undeveloped state, undergoing
development resulting in a significant increase in the rate of stormwater
runoff, and not providing stormwater detention must provide detention meeting
the requirements of subsection D13 of this section. Detention to be provided
shall be for the entire site evaluated in its natural state.
      18.   Ditches and culverts may be used in lieu of storm sewers if curbs
and gutters are not required. Ditches shall meet the following minimum
standards:
         a.   Minimum grade of one percent (1%).
         b.   Maximum grade of ten percent (10%).
         c.   Minimum depth of eighteen inches (18") below the shoulder of the
street.
         d.   Maximum bank slope of twenty five percent (25%).
         e.   The bottom and banks of ditches with grades between four percent
(4%) and eight percent (8%) shall be sodded and equipped with permanent ditch
checks.
         f.   The bottom and banks of ditches with grades between eight percent
(8%) and ten percent (10%) shall be paved with concrete riprap.
      19.   Culverts shall meet the following minimum standards:
         a.   Minimum pipe diameter of twelve inches (12").
         b.   Corrugated metal pipe (CMP) shall be hot dipped galvanized steel
or aluminum steel conforming to AASTO M36. Provide 16-gauge CMP for pipe
diameter twenty one inches (21") and smaller. Provide 12-gauge CMP for pipe
diameters twenty four inches (24") and larger.
         c.   Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) shall conform to ASTM C76, class
III.
         d.   Culvert slope and invert elevations shall match the ditch slope
and invert elevations.
         e.   Minimum cover at driveways of six inches (6"). (1999 Code §
10.03)
10-4-5: STREETLIGHTS:
   A.   A complete system of streetlights shall be constructed at those
locations deemed necessary by the village board. The developer shall submit to
the village engineer two (2) copies of street lighting calculations as well as
copies of proposed equipment for installation.
   B.   Street lighting shall be designed in accordance with the "American
National Standard Practice For Roadway Lighting" published by the Illuminating
Engineering Society Of North America, latest edition.
   C.   All material used in construction shall meet the requirements of the
national electrical code, latest edition 1 , and be Underwriters Laboratory
(UL) approved.
   D.   Street lighting poles for corporate and business areas shall have a
thirty foot (30') minimum mounting height. Poles shall be placed every one
hundred fifty feet (150') on alternate sides of the street. Luminaries shall be
two hundred fifty (250) watt HPS with horizontal cutoff or as approved by the
village engineer.
   E.   Street lighting poles, luminaries and fixtures for residential areas
shall be of a style approved by the village board. Poles shall be placed at
each intersection, the ends of each cul-de- sac, and not more than seven
hundred fifty feet (750') apart. Luminaries shall be one hundred fifty (150)
watt high pressure sodium (HPS) with horizontal cutoff.
   F.   All streetlight wiring shall be underground and consist of 3-wire,
direct burial cable, USE type. Two inch (2") diameter galvanized conduit is
required under all roadways, driveways, and sidewalks.
   G.   Conduit shall be galvanized steel meeting the requirements of ANSI,
C80.1, UL tested and labeled.
   H.   Poles shall be located a minimum of three feet (3') back of curb and
six feet (6') from the shoulder of rural streets.
   I.   All lighting shall be photocell controlled unless directed by the
village engineer.
   J.   The developer shall provide an operational streetlight system before
any occupancy permit is issued. In addition, the street lighting system shall
be made operational (turned on) when any dwelling is occupied. (Ord. 2012-12,
3-13-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article B of this code.
10-4-6: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
   A.   All public utility distribution lines for telephone, gas, electric, and
cable television service shall be placed entirely underground. All aboveground
appurtenances relating thereto shall be placed in rear lot line easements or in
areas as designated by the village engineer. Consideration for placement of
utilities in areas other than rear lot line easements shall be given only in
instances of safety, floodplain infringement, preservation of existing wooded
areas, and conflict with village utilities. Installation of such facilities
shall be made in compliance with the applicable orders, rules and regulations
of the Illinois commerce commission now or hereafter effective, and the
subdivider shall be responsible for compliance with rules and regulations now
and hereafter effective and filed with said commission pursuant to the Illinois
public utilities act 1 , or any public utility whose service will be required
for the subdivision with respect to the provision of such facilities.
   B.   Where a subdivider plans for the development of a subdivision within
the corporate limits of the village, the subdivider shall submit a utility plan
showing the location of all public utility distribution lines and all
aboveground appurtenances relating thereto, for approval by the village
engineer, before submitting his final plat for approval. In those instances
where approval of a final plat is not necessary, the developer shall submit a
utility plan for approval by the village engineer at the time a building permit
is requested.
   C.   All aboveground appurtenances, including transformers, junction boxes,
relief valves, and all structures associated with the installation and function
of the utilities, shall be fully screened from public view by walls, berming or
landscaping to be approved by the village.
   D.   Underground telephone, electric, gas, and cable television service
facilities, including conduits and cables, shall be placed within easements or
dedicated public ways in a manner which will not conflict with other
underground services. Further, all transformer boxes shall be located so as not
to be unsightly or hazardous to the public.
   E.   All utility lines and facilities for water and sewer service shall be
placed in appropriate easements and entirely underground. (1999 Code § 10.03)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
10-4-7: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Presubmission Requirements: Where a subdivider plans for the
development of a subdivision within the corporate limits of the village, the
subdivider shall, before submitting his final plat for approval:
      1.   Make provision for the installation and construction of improvements
required by this chapter.
      2.   Submit his provisions for installation and construction of
improvements required by this chapter to the village engineer for his
recommendation. (1999 Code § 10.03)
   B.   Compliance With Provisions; Inspections: The village president and
board of trustees shall not approve a subdivider's provisions for improvements
unless said provisions comply with this chapter. All improvements required by
this chapter shall be inspected for compliance with this title and the contract
specifications during construction by the village engineer. No such
improvements shall be accepted by the president and board of trustees unless
the village engineer certifies that the improvements comply with this title and
the contract specifications. (1999 Code § 10.03; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Completion Of Improvements: The public improvements, including the
water mains, sanitary sewers, the entire aboveground and belowground storm
drainage system, including detention and retention areas, and curb and gutter
and binder roadway surface course, if applicable, as required by this title,
must be fully completed and accepted by the village board for each separate
phase or unit of a development prior to the issuance of any occupancy permits
for any buildings in any phase or unit. (1999 Code § 10.03)
10-4-8: FINANCING:
   A.   Guarantee Of Improvements: Before a final plat is approved by the board
of trustees, the subdivider shall submit an undertaking in lieu of completion
bond (see section
10-7-1 of this title, appendix I) and irrevocable financial commitment (see
section
10-7-2 of this title, appendix II) to assure the following:
      1.   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all improvements required
in the subdivision.
      2.   Guaranteed completion of the required improvements within a two (2)
year period.
      3.   Payment by the subdivider for all costs incurred by the village for
review and inspection. This would include review of plans and specifications by
the village engineer, planner, and attorney, as well as other costs of a
similar nature and construction inspection of public improvements.
      4.   To pay the cost of maintaining the subdivision improvements for a
period of one year after acceptance. (1999 Code § 10.03)
      5.   The cash escrow or letter of credit shall be equal to one hundred
twenty five percent (125%) of the village engineer's estimated cost of the
required improvements. (1999 Code § 10.03; amd. 2005 Code)
      6.   Payment and discharge all claims made by any third party arising out
of the installation and construction of the public improvements; all such
claims must be paid prior to village acceptance of the public improvements;
provided, however, that if the subdivider has insurance coverage in sufficient
amounts to pay such claims and the subdivider files with the village the
insurance company's letter indicating that they acknowledge coverage and accept
defense of the claim and that the limits of the policy are satisfactory to pay
the claim if judgment is entered in favor of said third party, the village may,
in its discretion, accept the public improvements.
      7.   Any other customary expenses of the developer in meeting any
requirements of the village pertaining to the subdivision including, but not
limited to, reasonable attorney fees incurred by the village in drafting,
administering, and enforcing the subdivision improvement deposit agreement.
   B.   Refunding Deposit: After completion and acceptance of the subdivision
improvements, the village will authorize the refund of any residue remaining
except for ten percent (10%) of the original deposit or the amount stipulated
in the escrow agreement. The retained amount shall be used for maintenance of
the improvements for a period of one year after the date of acceptance, and
then any balance remaining will be refunded.
   C.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   The subdivider shall secure and maintain such insurance from an
insurance company authorized to write casualty insurance in the state where the
work is located as will protect himself, his subcontractors, the village and
the village engineer and his employees from claims for bodily injury, death or
property damage which may arise from subdividing the property. The subdivider
shall not commence work until he has obtained all insurance required under this
subsection C1 and shall have filed the certificate of insurance or the
certified copy of the insurance policy with the village.
      2.   Each insurance policy shall contain a clause providing that it shall
not be canceled by the insurance company without ten (10) days' written notice
to the village of intention to cancel. The amount of such insurance shall not
be less than the following:
         a.   Workers' Compensation And Employer's Liability: Workers'
compensation and employer's liability insurance shall be secured and maintained
as required by the state.
         b.   Public Liability, Bodily Injury, And Property Damage:
 
Injury or death of 1 person                        $1,000,000.00
Injury to more than 1 person in a single accident  1,500,000.00
Property damage                                    500,000.00
 
         c.   Automobile And Truck Public Liability, Bodily Injury And Property
Damage:
 
Injury or death of 1 person                        $ 500,000.00
Injury to more than 1 person in a single accident  1,000,000.00
Property damage                                    250,000.00
 
         d.   Umbrella Liability Coverage: An amount not less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
   D.   Indemnity: The subdivider shall indemnify and save harmless the village
and the village engineer and his employees from and against all losses and all
claims, demands, payments, suits, actions, recoveries, and judgments of every
nature and description brought or recovered against him by reason of any
omission or act of the subdivider, his agents or employees in the execution of
the work or in the guarding of it. The subdivider shall obtain in the name of
the village and shall maintain and pay the premiums for such insurance in such
amount and with such provisions as will protect the village from contingent
liability, and a copy of such insurance policy or policies shall be delivered
to the village. Full compliance by the village with the terms and provisions of
such insurance policy or policies shall be a condition precedent to the
village's right to enforce against the subdivider any provisions of this
chapter. (1999 Code § 10.03)
10-4-9: SNOWPLOWING AGREEMENT:
No subdivision containing one or more street(s) or road(s) shall be approved
until a snowplowing agreement similar in form to that set forth below has been
approved by the board of trustees and has been signed by the village president
and a representative of the developer; said agreement having been properly
witnessed.
   SNOW PLOWING AGREEMENT
   This agreement entered into this        day of                     , 20    ,
by the Village of Waterman, hereafter referred to as "Village", and
                                     , hereafter referred to as "Subdivider".
   RECITALS
   WHEREAS, Subdivider has recorded, in the Recorder's Office for DeKalb
County, Illinois, a plat for a subdivision known as
                                                    , in the Village of
Waterman, DeKalb County, Illinois, now hereafter referred to as "Subdivision";
and,
   WHEREAS, Subdivider marked and dedicated certain streets and highways as
public ways for public use on the plat of the Subdivision; and said Subdivision
has been annexed and is within the corporate limits of the Village; and,
   WHEREAS, Subdivider has laid out, opened, and improved for public use the
streets and highways marked and indicated on the Subdivision plat, and the
Village has not approved and accepted said improvements of the streets and
highways constructed by the Subdivider.
   NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein,
Village and Subdivider agree as follows:
1. The Village will furnish, when available, the necessary snow removal trucks,
machinery, equipment, material, and personnel to plow, clear, and remove snow
and ice from the streets and highways marked for public use on the Subdivision
plat.
2. The Subdivider agrees that the Village will determine, to its own
satisfaction, the following:
a. The necessity for snow and ice removal from the streets and highways in the
Subdivision.
b. The availability of trucks, machinery, equipment, material and personnel for
plowing, clearing, and removing snow and ice from the streets and highways in
the Subdivision.
c. The manner and performance of the work to clear and remove snow and ice from
the streets and highways in the Subdivision, and the sufficiency of the
clearing or removal of snow and ice.
   The Subdivider agrees with and accepts the decision of the Village on Items
2a, 2b, and 2c listed above.
3. The Subdivider agrees to keep the streets and highways, marked on the
Subdivision plat and opened by the Subdivider for public use, in a safe
condition, free and clear of obstructions, ruts, excavations and other
conditions so the snow removal equipment can move, travel, and operate without
undue delay, hindrance or danger to the personnel, equipment, or property of
the Village.
4. If there is work in progress on any street or highway in the Subdivision,
the Subdivider shall barricade and illuminate all obstructions, ruts,
excavations, and other dangerous conditions. The Village, in its discretion
may, but is not required to, clear and remove snow from any street or highway
on which such work is in progress.
5. The Subdivider agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Village of
Waterman, it's officers, agents, and employees from any loss, damage, or
expense arising out of or resulting from any activities that are subject to
this agreement except that which is caused by intentional acts or negligence of
the Village, it's officers, agents, or employees.
6. The Subdivider agrees to repair at his own expense any property, private or
public, damaged by the Village during snow and/or ice removal operations on the
streets and highways of the Subdivision except for such damage caused by
intentional acts or negligence of the Village, its officers, agents, or
employees.
7. The Subdivider agrees to pay to the Village the fee of $                  
each time the Village clears snow and/or ice from the streets and highways in
the Subdivision from and after the date of execution of this agreement through
December 31,      . Commencing January 1,      , and each January 1st
thereafter until the Village accepts the streets and highways of the
Subdivision for maintenance, the fee shall be increased. The amount of the
increase each year shall be equal to the annualized rate of inflation of the
preceding calendar year multiplied by the fee currently in effect. The Village
may deem it necessary to clear snow and/or ice more than once for each
snowfall.
8. This agreement shall be terminated only upon acceptance of the streets and
highways of the Subdivision for maintenance by the Village.
Approved and accepted this            day of                             ,
20    ,
VILLAGE OF WATERMAN      SUBDIVIDER
By:       By:    
Village President
Attest:       Attest:    
Village Clerk
(Ord. 2012-12, 3-13-2012)
CHAPTER 5
MASTER PLAN
SECTION:
10-5-1: Plan Established; Purpose
10-5-2: Application To Zoning And Subdivision Regulations
10-5-3: Long Range Needs Of Village
10-5-4: Development To Meet Demands Of Growth
10-5-5: Plats
10-5-1: PLAN ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There shall be established a master plan, commonly known as the comprehensive
plan, for the village. This plan, or any part thereof, will direct the physical
development of all or any part of the corporate area. This plan shall be
published in pamphlet form, and not less than three (3) copies thereof shall be
available for inspection at the office of the village clerk at all times in
accordance with Illinois Compiled Statutes. (1999 Code § 10.04)
10-5-2: APPLICATION TO ZONING AND SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
Rules, regulations, requirements and standards for private and public
improvements within said area and territory, and also within areas of one and
one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits of the village, as may from
time to time be established or as now exist, shall apply as provided in the
following described maps, plans, specifications, resolutions and/or ordinances,
each one duly recommended and adopted as provided by law:
   A.   Zoning ordinance of the village, as amended: Master plan adopted
October 21, 2003.
   B.   Subdivision regulations of the village: Master plan adopted October 21,
2003. (1999 Code § 10.04)
10-5-3: LONG RANGE NEEDS OF VILLAGE:
Certain features of the master plan are of necessity based on future public
needs which are expected to prevail when a majority of the land within and
tributary to the corporate area is subdivided and developed or is otherwise
improved and occupied. Among such features are:
   A.   Alignment and width of rights of way of major and other streets;
   B.   Location and size of sites for parks, playgrounds, public buildings and
grounds; and
   C.   Elevations of building sites and buildings near storm water drainage
channels and other features of the design of drains, ditches and sanitary
sewers which will lessen or avoid the hazards from future floodwater levels.
(1999 Code § 10.04)
10-5-4: DEVELOPMENT TO MEET DEMANDS OF GROWTH:
Certain features of the master plan shall be realized by stages, and the need
for or extent of a particular improvement will depend on the demands created by
surrounding growth and ability to finance its cost. Such improvements include:
pavements, culverts, bridges, storm sewers, grade separations, sanitary
sewerage, water supply facilities, development of parks and playgrounds, school
and other public buildings, grounds and facilities. When such improvements
shall be carried out or constructed and the extent of their design (whether
provided by the subdivider or developer of land or by the village or other
public agency) shall be determined by the authority having such jurisdiction.
All such improvements shall be made as provided by statutes and ordinances
relating thereto and in accordance with approved or established standards.
(1999 Code § 10.04)
10-5-5: PLATS:
   A.   Upon the adoption of the master plan for Waterman, no map, plat or
replat of land within the corporate limits of the village or in contiguous
territory not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles outside such limits shall
be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown thereon
provides for streets, alleys, ways for public service facilities, public
grounds and other matters as provided and required by the master plan. (1999
Code § 10.04)
   B.   If the planning commission recommends approval and the village board of
trustees does approve such map, plat or replat, the dedications shown thereon
shall be considered accepted, and the same shall be entitled to be received for
record. A certificate of such conformity shall be executed by the village clerk
after approval by the village board of trustees. (1999 Code § 10.04; amd. 2005
Code)
   C.   If the planning commission disapproves any such map, plat or replat,
the commission shall point out to the village board of trustees wherein the
same fails to meet the requirements of the master plan, and the planning
commission may recommend changes in the master plan whereby such map, plat or
replat would be in conformance with the requirements of the village plan. The
village board of trustees may overrule the disapproval of the planning
commission by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the elected members of the said board
or by a majority; or change the master plan as recommended by the planning
commission and approve such map, plat or replat; in either of which event, the
dedication therein contained shall be considered accepted and such map, plat or
replat entitled to be received for record. (1999 Code § 10.04)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC OPEN SPACES, SCHOOL AND CIVIC CONTRIBUTIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Amending Tables, Fees And Cost Of Services
10-6-3: Definitions
10-6-4: Land Dedication And/Or Contributions Required
10-6-5: Land Contribution
10-6-6: Cash In Lieu Of Land Contribution
10-6-7: Land And Cash Contribution
10-6-8: School Capital Improvement Contribution
10-6-9: Timing Of Contributions
10-6-10: Fair Market Value
10-6-11: Table Of Estimated Population; Density Formula
10-6-12: Public Open Spaces
10-6-13: Application To Annexed Land
10-6-14: Conflicting Provisions
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
Residential development projected over the next several years will have a
significant impact on the village, its police department, department of public
works, and its infrastructure; the Waterman fire protection district; the
Clinton Township public library district; and the Indian Creek school district
which provides education to the community students. This development will cause
a greatly increased demand for services and facilities provided by these
entities. The developers of new subdivisions and residents thereof will require
the services of these entities prior to the time that tax revenues are
generated by said subdivisions. The development projected will result in the
disappearance of land available for schools and parks, and the price of the
remaining land will, in all probability, increase faster than the borrowing
capacity of the various taxing bodies responsible for providing these services.
It is essential to the health, welfare and safety of Waterman that:
   A.   Adequate land and facilities are available to provide village,
educational, library, recreational and fire protection services.
   B.   School sites be provided within the village in accordance with the
criteria hereinafter set forth, which are consistent with the minimum school
site recommendations heretofore issued by Indian Creek school district and that
funds be provided to the village to defray a portion of the cost of new school
construction.
   C.   Park sites be provided within the village in accordance with the
standards hereinafter set forth, which are consistent with the criteria for
park land requirements as recommended by the village board of trustees.
   D.   Funds be provided to the village to help defray the increased cost of
providing village services and fire protection in areas which are in the
process of development with a high potential for theft and vandalism,
unfinished streets that cause extraordinary wear and tear to emergency
vehicles, and increased patrol requirements that will strain the police
department's manpower and vehicular resources.
   E.   The combining of school sites with park sites to provide the maximum in
educational and recreational services and facilities should be encouraged.
(1999 Code § 10.05.01)
10-6-2: AMENDING TABLES, FEES AND COST OF SERVICES:
It is recognized that population density, age distribution, land value, the
cost of providing park, school and municipal services, construction costs and
other local conditions change over the years. Therefore, the specific formula
for the dedication of land or the payment of fees in lieu thereof, the required
contribution for school construction, police, fire, library and administrative
services, and the fair market value of land in and around the village shall be
reviewed regularly and amended if necessary. To that end, all of these values
shall be contained in and referred to appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title. Table F at the end of appendix III summarizes the
contributions required by the developer. (1999 Code § 10.05.02)
10-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
   BEDROOM: A private room in a dwelling which is larger than one hundred (100)
square feet in area, meets the bedroom egress requirements of the Waterman
building code 1 , is separable from other rooms by a door or doorframe (frame
that can be used for a standard door), and does not have facilities or
furnishings for cooking, eating, and laundering, and is not solely a bathroom,
a living room, a den/family room, a kitchen, a dining room, a laundry room or a
utility room for central heating/cooling equipment.
   CIVIC: Refers to the park district and other recreational facilities, the
fire protection district, the village of Waterman (public works and
infrastructure), and the Clinton Township library district.
   DENSITY: The numerical value which indicates the number of dwelling units
per acre of a development.
   DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a building or a portion of a room,
designed, intended to be used, or actually used for occupancy by one family for
living and sleeping quarters, and containing one kitchen only, and includes a
mobile home, but not hotel or motel units.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT OR SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT: Means and includes any project undertaken for the purpose of
development, including, without limitation, a project involving the issuance of
a permit for construction, reconstruction, or change of use, but not a project
involving the issuance of a permit to operate or to remodel, rehabilitate, or
improve an existing structure, nor the rebuilding of a structure destroyed or
damaged by an act of nature, nor the replacement of one mobile home with
another on the same pad if no dwelling unit is added.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any development undertaken to create a new
dwelling unit or units. (1999 Code § 10.05.03; amd. 2005 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 1, article A of this code.
10-6-4: LAND DEDICATION AND/OR CONTRIBUTIONS REQUIRED:
As a condition of approval of a development plan or plat, each owner or
developer will be required to dedicate land for school sites and civic
purposes, or cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a
combination of both, at the option of the village. In addition, the developer
will make a cash contribution to provide for construction (capital
improvements) of adequate school and civic facilities. The developer shall
conform to the requirements of this title. The location of the areas shall be
referred to the planning commission in conjunction with the submittal of the
preliminary plan, and the areas shall be appropriately marked on the plat prior
to approval of the plat. (1999 Code § 10.05.04)
10-6-5: LAND CONTRIBUTION:
   A.   Criteria:
      1.   School Land Contribution: The village board will require each
subdivider and developer of land to donate land for school sites to serve the
immediate and future needs of the residents of the parcel. Such contribution is
necessary to ensure proper provision of school sites for persons who are
expected to reside within the subdivision or development, which sites would
otherwise have to be acquired at the expense of the general public, but whose
utility would generally be limited to residents of the parcel.
         a.   Philosophy Of Acceptance:
            (1)   All elementary, junior high, and senior high schools shall be
located to serve the greatest number of children possible within walking
distance. Access shall be available on fully improved streets.
            (2)   Adjacent land use to the school site must be considered.
School sites shall not serve as buffers between residential/commercial and
residential/industrial use.
         b.   Calculating Requirement:
            (1)   The ultimate number of students to be generated by a
subdivision or development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required
to be dedicated for school sites.
            (2)   The land dedication requirement shall be determined by:
               (A)   See worksheet E in appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title, using table B, "Estimated Ultimate Population".
               (B)   Obtain the number of dwelling units for each type of unit
listed in table B (detached/attached, bedrooms). Identify these values as
number of units per type.
               (C)   For elementary school, find the number of children per
unit in table B that corresponds to the type of unit. Multiply that by the
number of units per type.
               (D)   Find the sum or total students that will attend the
elementary school.
               (E)   Using table C, "Base School Population And Site Size", in
appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title, find the maximum number of acres of land per student for
each school classification in column III. Multiply that value by the total
obtained in subsection A1b(2)(D) above. This value is the total acres required
for elementary school.
               (F)   Repeat subsections A1b(2)(C) to A1b(2)(E) of this section
substituting middle school and high school where elementary school was used.
               (G)   Add the total acres for each school classification. This
value is the total acres that will be required to be dedicated for school
sites.
         c.   Whenever planning is done jointly with the park district for a
school/park site, the school owned portion shall comply with the specifications
contained herein.
         d.   The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted by the
affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
Variances in land uses could, however, change the locations and/or number of
sites.
      2.   Criteria For Requiring Park Land Contribution: The village board
will require each subdivider and developer of land to donate land for public
open space and recreation purposes to serve the immediate and future needs of
the residents of the parcel. The amount of land shall be determined on the
basis of ten (10) acres per one thousand (1,000) persons calculated as provided
in the column total per dwelling unit (last) in table B, "Estimated Ultimate
Population", in appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title. (1999 Code § 10.05.05)
   B.   Review Of Park Site Improvements: Prior to conveyance of a public open
space site to the village, the subdivider or developer shall submit to the
village board its plans for any improvements to be made to such park site.
Conveyance of property required by this chapter to the village shall be subject
to the subdivider's or developer's compliance with the public open space or
school improvement plans as approved by the village board. (1999 Code §
10.05.06)
   C.   Environmental Quality:
      1.   Land to be dedicated for park sites shall be approved by the village
according to its environmental quality, as well as its suitability for active
and passive recreational activities. The land is to be dry and usable at all
times and not subject to flooding or used as detention. No bogs or swamps shall
be acceptable as required park sites. Lakes and native prairie wetlands shall
not normally be acceptable, but may be approved by the village where the area
offers an exceptional amenity or the chance to protect a significant natural
resource. No site that has been part of an unlicensed landfill or a toxic waste
dump shall be acceptable as required park acreage.
      2.   Every effort shall be made to conserve for public use and enjoyment
those areas of significant natural and environmental value. Except in those
specific areas designated by the village for development as play fields or
other active areas, all trees, other plant materials, streams and other natural
features shall be retained on land to be dedicated for park site use, unless
specifically cited by the village for removal by the developer. (1999 Code §
10.05.07)
   D.   Improved Sites:
      1.   The slope, topography and geology of the site to be donated as well
as its surroundings must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on
sites dedicated for public open space or school uses shall not differ greatly
from surrounding land. Before donation, all sites shall be improved as required
under this title, or acceptable provisions shall be made for such improvements
before dedication.
      2.   All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service
of electrical, water, sewer and streets (including enclosed drainage and curb
and gutter) as applicable to the location of the site, or acceptable provision
made therefor. The sidewalk and parkway improvements will be installed before
final acceptance of public improvements. (1999 Code § 10.05.08)
   E.   Land Conveyance By Warranty Deed: The following requirements shall be
provided prior to acceptance of any land to be dedicated or donated:
      1.   A current survey.
      2.   A title insurance commitment, acceptable to the village, in an
amount not less than the fair market value of the land as determined by the
village.
      3.   A warranty deed. (1999 Code § 10.05.09)
      4.   A written statement from the grantor or developer stating that
grantor or developer shall be responsible for paying the real estate taxes on
the land until an exemption is obtained. (1999 Code § 10.05.09; amd. 2005 Code)
   F.   Reservation Of Additional Land: Where the comprehensive plan or the
standards of the village call for a larger amount of park and recreational land
or school sites in a particular subdivision or development than the developer
is required to dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution
shall be reserved for subsequent purchase by the village or other public entity
designated by the village; provided, that such acquisition is made within one
year from the date of approval of the final plat. (1999 Code § 10.05.10)
   G.   Combining With Adjoining Developments: Where the subdivision or
development is less than forty (40) acres, public open space or a school site
which is to be dedicated should, where possible, be combined with dedications
from adjoining developments in order to produce usable recreation areas or
school sites without hardship on a particular developer. (1999 Code § 10.05.11)
10-6-6: CASH IN LIEU OF LAND CONTRIBUTION:
   A.   Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to
be practical or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution in lieu of the land
dedication required. The cash contributions in lieu of park and recreation land
dedication shall be held in trust by the village, or other public entity
designated by the village, solely for the acquisition of park and recreation
land as hereinbefore classified, which will be available to serve the immediate
or future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation land which already
serves such needs.
   B.   The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held in trust
by the village, or other public entity designated by the village, solely for
use in the acquisition of land for a school site to serve the immediate or
future needs of children from that subdivision or development or for the
improvement to any existing school site which already serves such needs or for
the improvement or use of any school site specifically and uniquely
attributable to the proposed subdivision or development. If any portion of cash
contribution in lieu of park and recreation land dedication, or cash
contribution in lieu of school site, is not expended for the purposes set forth
herein within twenty (20) years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded
to the developer who made such contribution.
   C.   Prior to distribution of any funds under this chapter to a public
entity, the public entity shall give to the village a hold harmless and
indemnification, indemnifying the village from any and all causes of action or
other liability that may arise on account of the distribution or an expenditure
of the funds by the public entity. (1999 Code § 10.05.12)
10-6-7: LAND AND CASH CONTRIBUTION:
There may be situations in subdivisions or developments when a combination of
land dedication and contribution in lieu of land are both advisable. These
occasions will arise when:
   A.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the location
for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the subdivision
falling within the park or school location shall be dedicated as a site as
aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required for any
additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
   B.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site has
already been acquired and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (1999
Code § 10.05.13)
10-6-8: SCHOOL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CONTRIBUTION:
The village board will require each subdivider and developer of land to donate
cash in addition to land or cash in lieu of land donations expressly for the
purpose of school building construction. Donations will be based on the school
capital improvement contribution table D in appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title; the amount shown in column 3 (contribution) if for a
single dwelling unit. (1999 Code § 10.05.14)
10-6-9: TIMING OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
Cash contributions shall be made at the time building permits are issued. In
the event a subdivider or developer files a written request to make payment at
some time other than at the issuance of building permits, the village board
will consult the park district and school district and make a final
determination of a payment schedule. Alternative payment schedules shall always
precede the issuance of building permits. (1999 Code § 10.05.15)
10-6-10: FAIR MARKET VALUE:
The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based on the fair market value
of the acres of land as improved, that otherwise would have been dedicated as
park and recreation or school sites. Table A, "Fair Market Value", section
10-7-3 of this title, shall be used in making any calculation herein unless the
subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In the event of any
such objection, the subdivider or developer shall submit an appraisal showing
the fair market value of such improved land or other evidence thereof and final
determination of said fair market value per acre of such improved land shall be
made by the village board based upon such information from other sources which
may be submitted to the village board by the park district, school district, or
others. (1999 Code § 10.05.16)
10-6-11: TABLE OF ESTIMATED POPULATION; DENSITY FORMULA:
Table B, "Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit", in
appendix III, section
10-7-3 of this title, is generally indicative of current and short range
projected trends in family size for new construction and shall be used in
calculating the amount of required dedication of acres of land or the cash
contributions in lieu thereof unless a written objection is filed thereto by
the subdivider or developer. In the event a subdivider or developer files a
written objection to the table of estimated ultimate population listed herein,
he shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population, and in that event, final determination of the density formula to be
used in such calculations shall be made by the village board based upon such
demographic information submitted by the subdivider or developer and from other
sources which may be submitted to the village board by the park district,
school district, or others. (1999 Code § 10.05.17)
10-6-12: PUBLIC OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Design Standards And Requirements:
      1.   Public open space provides an orientation hierarchy and communal
structure to a neighborhood. The series of specialized open spaces described
herein are integral to the neighborhood environment. "Open space" is defined as
all areas not covered by buildings or parking lots, streets, required setbacks,
easements or golf courses.
      2.   Open space shall be planned and improved, accessible and usable by
persons living nearby. "Improved" shall mean cleared of underbrush and debris,
graded, landscaped, and may contain one or more of the following improvements:
gazebos, benches, walls, fences, fountains, statues, memorials, ball fields,
and/or play equipment. Walls and fences shall be made of stone, masonry,
wrought iron, or wood and shall not exceed four feet (4') in height; except,
that fences used in conjunction with ball fields may be of chainlink
construction and may exceed four feet (4') in height. Playground equipment,
statues, memorials and fountains should be located towards the center of
squares and parks.
      3.   Except for greenways and parkways, required open space shall be
located at or adjacent to the higher residential densities in the neighborhood.
(1999 Code § 10.05.18)
   B.   Open Space Types: The open spaces in Waterman fall into eight (8) types
that are defined as follows:
      1.   Playground:
         a.   Playgrounds provide sunny and shaded play areas for children as
well as open shelter with benches for adults. Playgrounds may be built within
squares and parks or may stand alone within a residential block. Playgrounds
shall be fenced, securable and illuminated if not part of a square or park. The
minimum size for a playground shall be eight thousand (8,000) square feet; the
maximum size for a playground shall be fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
There should be a playground within six hundred feet (600') of every residence.
Playgrounds may be covered in sand, crushed stone or other surface approved by
the village.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1085.png]
 
         b.   Trees shall be planted along the perimeter of a playground. Trees
shall be between fifteen feet (15') and forty feet (40') on center. Trees shall
limb up to a minimum of fifteen feet (15') at maturity. Tree planting required
along the perimeter of a playground is in addition to trees required to be
planted in the adjacent public right of way.
      2.   Close: A "close" is a front space for buildings interior to the
block. It may be pedestrian or it may have a roadway loop around a green area
within the roadway. Its minimum width must coincide with emergency vehicle
turning standards. Trees shall be planted along the perimeter of a close. Trees
shall be spaced between fifteen feet (15') and forty feet (40') on center.
Trees shall limb up to a minimum of fifteen feet (15') at maturity. Tree
planting required along the perimeter of a close is in addition to trees
required to be planted in the adjacent public right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1087.png]
 
      3.   Square: "Squares" are green spaces which are inherently civic in
nature. They are the setting for civic buildings and monuments, located either
at their centers or edges. Formal tree planting maintains spatial definition of
the square. Squares should be maintained to a higher standard than playgrounds
and parks. Squares are areas for passive recreational use. Attached squares
shall be bounded by streets on a minimum of three (3) sides or seventy five
percent (75%) of their perimeter. Detached squares are entirely bounded by
streets. The recommended minimum size of a square shall be twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet; the recommended maximum size shall be two (2) acres.
Squares may be entirely paved in crushed gravel, brick pavers, or similar
material, or partially paved. Areas not landscaped shall be landscaped. Squares
shall have trees planted parallel to all rights of way with not less than two
(2) tree species a minimum of ten feet (10') and maximum of thirty feet (30')
on center. Trees shall limb up to a minimum of fifteen feet (15') at maturity.
Tree planting required along the perimeter of a square is in addition to trees
required to be planted in the adjacent public right of way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1089.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1091.png]
 
      4.   Parks: Parks may be designed for passive and/or active recreational
use. Parks shall be bounded by public streets on a minimum of fifty percent
(50%) of their perimeter. Parks are encouraged to be entirely bounded by
streets. The minimum size shall be one acre; the maximum size shall be five (5)
acres. The maximum park size may exceed five (5) acres if, through design, the
park creates a central open space which serves an entire neighborhood or group
of neighborhoods, or incorporates physical features which are an asset to the
community, e.g., lake or river frontage, high ground, significant stand of
trees. Trees shall be planted along all rights of way with not less than two
(2) tree species a minimum of ten feet (10') and a maximum of thirty feet (30')
on center. Interior areas shall remain natural, and any additional plantings
shall be informal in design. Tree planting required along the perimeter of a
park is in addition to tree planting required in the adjacent public right of
way. Promenades and esplanades within a park may be formally planted with trees
parallel to the walkway. Interior portions of the park are encouraged to be
kept free of plantings. Areas for active use and any facilities which accompany
such use shall have a tree planting design which integrates the structures into
the park and defines the areas set aside for active recreation use from areas
of passive use. Plantings in the interior portions of the park are encouraged
to follow topographical lines. There shall be no area within a park of
undergrowth or limbs lower than twelve feet (12') from the ground.
      5.   Green: Like the square, it is small, civic, and surrounded by
buildings. Unlike the square, it is informally planted and may have an
irregular topography. Greens are usually landscaped with trees at the edges and
sunny lawns at the center. Greens should contain no structures other than
benches, pavilions and memorials. Paths are optional. Tree planting required in
the public right of way along a green shall be provided as required.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e41e1aa2d8802c3c871da6df39ba2275850c955c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1093.png]
 
      6.   Parkway: "Parkways" are open spaces designed to incorporate natural
settings such as creeks and significant stands of trees within neighborhoods.
Parkways are to be entirely bounded by streets or pedestrian rights of way
within developed areas. Parkways differ from parks and squares in that their
detailing is natural, i.e., informally planted, except along rights of way, and
may contain irregular topography. Parkways may be used for certain active
recreational uses such as walking, jogging, or bicycling. Trees shall be
planted along all rights of way with not less than two (2) tree species a
minimum of ten feet (10') and a maximum of thirty feet (30') on center.
Interior areas shall remain natural, and any additional plantings shall be
informal in design. Tree planting required along the perimeter of a parkway is
in addition to required tree planting in the adjacent public right of way.
      7.   Greenbelt: Greenbelts run along any waterways, or along the
perimeter of a neighborhood or the village, and serve to buffer a neighborhood
from surrounding noncompatible uses such as a highway corridor or industrial
district, or a neighborhood from agricultural areas or adjacent neighborhoods.
Greenbelts are left in a natural state and are not for recreational purposes.
There is no tree planting requirement along the perimeter of greenbelts. Tree
planting required in the public right of way along greenbelts shall be provided
as required.
      8.   Buffer: The buffer has the basic elements of a green with the added
purpose of buffering the impact of traffic from a highway or boulevard. (1999
Code § 10.05.19)
10-6-13: APPLICATION TO ANNEXED LAND:
The dedications of land or cash contributions in lieu thereof required by this
chapter shall also be required as a condition to the annexation of any land to
the village, and provisions thereof shall be incorporated in any preannexation
agreement governing such land. (1999 Code § 10.05.20)
10-6-14: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance or resolution establishing or amending school
and civic contributions, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (1999
Code § 10.05.21)
CHAPTER 7
APPENDICES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Appendix I; Undertaking In Lieu Of Completion Bond
10-7-2: Appendix II; Irrevocable Financial Commitment
10-7-3: Appendix III
10-7-1: APPENDIX I; UNDERTAKING IN LIEU OF COMPLETION BOND:
State of Illinois )
) SS
County of DeKalb )
Whereas the Statutes of the State of Illinois grant to a municipal corporation
the right to require that a developer constructing certain improvements within
the community guarantee the construction of such improvements by a Completion
Bond or other security acceptable to the community; and
Whereas, _______________________________  desires to construct a (residential)
(commercial) (industrial) development within the Village of Waterman, Illinois
and that said municipality is willing to accept the nature of an irrevocable
commitment in lieu of such Completion Bond.
Now, Therefore, are the following representations made by the owner and/or
developer to the Village of Waterman:
1) That _______________________________ is the owner and/or developer of the
property legally described in Clause 2 of this undertaking, and shall
hereinafter be referred to as "Owner;" and, that the Village of Waterman shall
hereinafter be referred to as "Village."
2) That the Owner is the legal title holder or developer of the following
described property:
(Insert Legal Description of Property)
3) That the Owner shall be required to install at this own cost and expense all
necessary materials, labor and equipment to complete the public and private
improvements required by the ordinances of the village of Waterman, including
but not limited to the installation of the following: streets, sidewalks,
streetlights, street signs, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, detention and
retention basins and storm drainage systems, water lines, common landscaping in
common areas and grading and restoration. All improvements shall be in
accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of the Village
of Waterman. In order to guarantee that such facilities will be installed, the
Owner shall submit to the Village engineer such specifications and estimated
engineering costs as shall be required to meet with his approval. In aiding the
village engineer in determining the amount of reasonably anticipated costs for
the construction of such improvements, the Owner may submit to the engineer
signed contracts for the construction of such improvements. The Village
engineer, upon determining that the design of the required improvements are in
accordance with good engineering practices, shall estimate and certify an
amount which shall represent one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the
reasonably estimated cost of completing those improvements and for which amount
the municipality requires the posting of a completion guarantee.
4) That the Owner shall furnish qualified field supervision of the installation
of all public improvements in the person of a professional engineer registered
and licensed in the State of Illinois.
5) That the Owner shall not be entitled to the recording of the final plat or
the issuance of Building permits until and unless said Owner shall submit to
the Village an irrevocable financial commitment from a bank, savings and loan,
or mortgage company approved by the Village in the amount certified by the
Village engineer.
6) That the written irrevocable financial commitment shall be furnished to the
Village from a banking or lending institution in the form marked "Appendix II"
and appended to this Agreement.
7) That the Owner guarantees the workmanship of the public improvements to be
installed upon the site for a period of one (1) year after their donation to
the Village. Upon final completion of the public improvements the Owner shall
execute a Bill of Sale for those items which are personal property and for
maintenance. For a period of one (1) year after the granting of the Bill of
Sale in the case of personal property and the acceptance for maintenance of any
other public improvements all necessary repairs to such facilities shall be the
responsibility of the Owner.
In Witness whereof _______________________________ has hereunto set his hand
and seal this _____ day of _____________________, 20___ .
_______________________________ 
Owner (Signed)
_______________________________ 
Owner (Print)
Approved by the Village of Waterman this _______ day of _________________,
20____.
_______________________________ 
Village of Waterman (Signed)
(1999 Code ch. 10, appendix I)
10-7-2: APPENDIX II; IRREVOCABLE FINANCIAL COMMITMENT:
   (Letterhead of a Bank, Savings & Loan or Mortgage House)
   ____________________________, 20____
Village President _______________________________
and Board of Trustees
Village of Waterman
215 W. Adams St.
Waterman, IL 60556
RE: Letter of Credit No:_______________________________
For Account of:_________________________________
Amount:____________________________________________
Date:____________________________________________
Village of Waterman:
We hereby establish in your favor this irrevocable letter of credit in favor
of_________________________________ , developer,
and_________________________________ , owner, in the amount
of_________________________________  Dollars ($ ), which equals 125% of the
cost of the improvements described herein. We understand that this irrevocable
letter of credit is to be used to construct the following improvements in the
residential development known as_________________________________  to be
constructed with the Village of Waterman, Illinois.
Division "A" - Sanitary Sewer
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
Division "B" - Water Main
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
Division "C" - Storm Sewers
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
Division "D"" - Streets
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
Division "E" - Detention Basin
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
Division "F" - Miscellaneous Improvements
(Engineer's Estimate = _______________________)
 
The costs for the foregoing improvements are detailed in the attached
Engineer's Cost Estimate.
(1999 Code ch. 10, appendix II; amd. 2005 Code)
10-7-3: APPENDIX III:
   A.   Table A, Fair Market Value:
   Calculating Fair Market Value
   Based On Lot Size And Amount Of Land Used For Infrastructure
   Fair Market Value = Present cost of lot in Waterman x lots per acre
(infrastructure factored in) x 50%
Average Lot Lots Per Acre  Fair   Lots Per Acre  Fair   Lots Per Acre  Fair   Lots Per Acre  Fair
Size Of     If             Market If             Market If             Market If             Market
Development Infrastructure Value  Infrastructure Value  Infrastructure Value  Infrastructure Value
            10%                   15%                   20%                   25%
Average Lot Lots Per Acre  Fair    Lots Per Acre  Fair    Lots Per Acre  Fair    Lots Per Acre  Fair
Size Of     If             Market  If             Market  If             Market  If             Market
Development Infrastructure Value   Infrastructure Value   Infrastructure Value   Infrastructure Value
            10%                    15%                    20%                    25%
                                                                                        
12,000     3.27           $65,340 3.09           $61,710 2.90           $58,080 2.72           $54,450
11,500     3.41           68,181  3.22           64,393  3.03           60,605  2.84           56,817
11,000     3.56           71,280  3.37           67,320  3.17           63,360  2.97           59,400
10,500     3.73           74,674  3.53           70,526  3.32           66,377  3.11           62,229
10,000     3.92           78,408  3.70           74,052  3.48           69,696  3.27           65,340
9,500      4.13           82,535  3.90           77,949  3.67           73,364  3.44           68,779
9,000      4.36           87,120  4.11           82,280  3.87           77,440  3.63           72,600
8,500      4.61           92,245  4.36           87,120  4.10           81,995  3.84           76,871
 
 
              Sq. Ft./Acre = 43,560                
% Used For     Sq. Ft. Used For Sq. Ft. Available         Lots Sold In
Infrastructure Infrastructure   For Building                Waterman In 2003
                                                       
10             4,356           39,204                    $42,000.00
15             6,534           37,026                    40,000.00
20             8,712           34,848                    38,000.00
25             10,890          32,670             Average 40,000.00
 
Example:
Development lot size = 9,000 square feet
20% used for infrastructure
43,560 - 8,712 (20%) = 34,848
34,848/9,000 = 3.87 lots/acre
$40,000 cost of lot in Waterman
$40,000 x 3.87 x 0.5 = $77,440.00
   B.   Table B, Estimated Ultimate Population:
   TABLE OF ESTIMATED ULTIMATE POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
        Children Per Unit
                             Middle                High
        Preschool Elementary School                School    Adults   Total Per
Type Of           Grades K-5 Grades 6-8 Total K-8  Grades 9- 18 Years Dwelling
Unit    0-4 Years 5-10 Years 11-13      5-13 Years 12        And Over Unit
                             Years                 14-17
                                                   Years
           Children Per Unit
                                Middle           High
           Preschool Elementary School Total K-8 School    Adults   Total Per
Type Of              Grades K-5 Grades 5-13      Grades 9- 18 Years Dwelling
Unit       0-4 Years 5-10 Years 6-8    Years     12        And Over Unit
                                11-13            14-17
                                Years            Years
                                                                
Detached single-                                                
family:
2 bedroom  0.113     0.136      0.048  0.184     0.02      1.7      2.017
3 bedroom  0.292     0.369      0.173  0.542     0.184     1.881    2.899
4 bedroom  0.418     0.53       0.298  0.828     0.36      2.158    3.764
5 bedroom  0.283     0.345      0.248  0.593     0.3       2.594    3.77
                                                                
Attached single-                                                
family:
1 bedroom  0         0          0      0         0         1.193    1.193
2 bedroom  0.064     0.088      0.048  0.136     0.038     1.752    1.99
3 bedroom  0.212     0.234      0.058  0.292     0.059     1.829    2.392
4 bedroom  0.323     0.322      0.154  0.476     0.173     2.173    3.145
                                                                
Apartments:                                                     
Efficiency 0         0          0      0         0         1.294    1.294
1 bedroom  0         0.002      0.001  0.003     0.001     1.754    1.758
2 bedroom  0.047     0.086      0.042  0.128     0.046     1.693    1.914
3 bedroom  0.052     0.234      0.123  0.357     0.118     2.526    3.053
 
Note: There are only 3 significant categories provided in this chart. Because
of the similarity of yields of all types of attached single-family dwelling
units, only 1 category is provided. The same is true with apartments; thus,
only 1 category. Because of the relatively short history of some newer types of
detached and attached single-family units, individual evaluations may be
necessary.
   C.   Table C, Base School Population And Site Size:
   TABLE OF BASE SCHOOL POPULATION AND SITE SIZE
 
                   I                 II                   III
School             Maximum Number Of Maximum Number Acres Maximum Number Acres
Classification By  Students For Each Of Land For Each     Of Land Number Acres
Grades             Such School       School Site Of Such  Of Land Per Student
                   Classification    Classification       For Each School
                                                          Classification
Elementary schools
grades -           600 students      13 acres             0.02167
kindergarten
through 5th (K-5)
Middle schools,
grades 6th through 900 students      24 acres             0.02667
8th (6-8)
High schools,
grades 9th through 2,300 students    48 acres             0.02087
12th (9-12)
 
Note: These figures are from the state superintendent's office.
D.   Table D, School Capital Improvement Contribution:
   SCHOOL CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CONTRIBUTION
Dwelling Type  Bedrooms  Contribution*
Dwelling Type            Bedrooms   Contribution*
                                         
Detached single-family  2         $ 857.00  
Detached single-family  3         3,304.00  
Detached single-family  4         5,557.00  
Detached single-family  5         4,275.00  
                                         
Attached single-family  2         787.00    
Attached single-family  3         1,496.00  
Attached single-family  4         2,971.00  
 
* Rounded to the nearest dollar
   CALCULATING NEW SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION CONTRIBUTION
 
School Type   Sq. Ft. Per Cost Per Sq. Ft. Regional          Adjusted Cost Per
              Student                      Adjustment Factor Sq. Ft.
                                                           
Elementary    100         $ 92.60         0.99              $ 9,167.40
school
Middle school 120         105.43          0.99              12,525.08
High school   140         106.25          0.99              14,726.25
 
         Elementary          Middle School       High School         Total
                                                                     (Sum   Contribution
Dwelling Students*/ Cost Per Students*/ Cost Per Students*/ Cost Per Of 3   (Total x
Type     Dwelling   Dwelling Dwelling   Dwelling Dwelling   Dwelling Costs) 0.40)
         Elementary           Middle School       High School         Total     Contribution
Dwelling Students*/ Cost Per  Students*/ Cost Per Students*/ Cost Per (Sum Of 3 (Total x
Type     Dwelling   Dwelling  Dwelling   Dwelling Dwelling   Dwelling Costs)    0.40)

Detached dwelling                                                          
unit:
2        0.136      $1,246.77 0.048      $ 601.20 0.020      $ 294.53 $         $ 857.00
bedroom                                                               2,142.50
3        0.369      3,382.77  0.173      2,166.84 0.184      2,709.63 8,259.24  3,303.70
bedroom
4        0.530      4,858.72  0.298      3,732.48 0.360      5,301.45 13,892.65 5,557.06
bedroom
5        0.345      3,162.75  0.248      3,106.22 0.300      4,417.88 10,686.85 4,274.74
bedroom
Attached dwelling unit                                                      
(duplex):
2        0.088      806.73    0.048      601.20   0.038      559.60   1,967.53  787.01
bedroom
3        0.234      2,145.17  0.058      726.45   0.059      868.85   3,740.48  1,496.19
bedroom
4        0.322      2,951.90  0.154      1,928.86 0.173      2,547.64 7,428.41  2,971.36
bedroom
 
Cost per dwelling = students per dwelling times adjusted cost per square foot
*From Table Of Estimated Ultimate Population Per Dwelling Unit
Square foot per student, cost per square foot and regional adjustment factor
provided by the Indian Creek school district; 0.4 multiplier determined by the
village board.
E.   Work Sheet For Calculating Land To Be Contributed For Schools:
Elementary   (A)           (B)          (C)              (D)                
School
                           Children Per Total Children   Use Table C Base
Type Of Unit Units Planned Unit Table B Per Type (A x B) School Population  
                                                         And Site Size
Elementary    (A)           (B)          (C)          (D)             
School
                                         Total        Use Table C
Type Of Unit  Units Planned Children Per Children Per Base School     
                            Unit Table B Type (A x B) Population And
                                                      Site Size
Detached
single-family                                                     
2 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                                     
3 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                      Maximum         
4 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                      number of       
5 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                      acres of land   
2 bedroom
Attached                                              per student
single-family                                      for            Total
3 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                      each school    acres
4 bedroom
Apartments 1                                       classification elementary
bedroom
Apartments 2                                       from table     school
bedroom
Apartments 3                                       column III     (C x D)
bedroom
   Total children for elementary schoo 
 
Middle School (A)           (B)          (C)              (D)
                            Children Per Total Children   Use Table C Base
Type Of Unit  Units Planned Unit Table B Per Type (A x B) School Population
                                                          And Site Size
Middle School (A)           (B)          (C)            (D)
                                         Total Children Use Table C
Type Of Unit  Units Planned Children Per Per Type (A x  Base School
                            Unit Table B B)             Population And
                                                        Site Size
Detached
single-family                                                        
2 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                                        
3 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                        Maximum          
4 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                        number of        
5 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        acres of land    
2 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        per student for Total
3 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        each school     acres
4 bedroom
Apartments 1                                         classification  middle
bedroom
Apartments 2                                         from table      school
bedroom
Apartments 3                                         column III      (C x D)
bedroom
   Total children for middle school    
 
High School  (A)           (B)          (C)              (D)
                           Children Per Total Children   Use Table C Base
Type Of Unit Units Planned Unit Table B Per Type (A x B) School Population
                                                         And Site Size
High School   (A)           (B)          (C)            (D)
                                         Total Children Use Table C
Type Of Unit  Units Planned Children Per Per Type (A x  Base School
                            Unit Table B B)             Population And
                                                        Site Size
Detached
single-family                                                        
2 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                                        
3 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                        Maximum          
4 bedroom
Detached
single-family                                        number of        
5 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        acres of land    
2 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        per student for Total
3 bedroom
Attached
single-family                                        each school     acres
4 bedroom
Apartments 1                                         classification  high
bedroom
Apartments 2                                         from table      school
bedroom
Apartments 3                                         column III      (C x D)
bedroom
   Total children for high school      
   Total acres to be dedicated, sum of elementary, middle and high
schools
 
   F.   Summary Of Contributions Required By The Developer:
      1.   School Land Contributions (subsection
10-6-5A1 of this title):
         Use worksheet E in this appendix III
         Use table B to determine population
         Use table C for calculating land required
      2.   Park Land Contribution (subsection
10-6-5G of this title):
         10 acres per 1,000 persons
      3.   Cash In Lieu Of Land (section
 10-6-6 of this title):
         Use table A to calculate fair market value
      4.   School Capitol Improvement (section
10-6-8 of this title):
         Use table D, amount in column 3 is for a single-family dwelling unit
(1999 Code ch. 10, appendix III; amd. 2005 Code)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
Flood Damage Protection   1
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION 1
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority And Purpose
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Code Official
11-1-4: Base Flood Elevation
11-1-5: Permit Requirements
11-1-6: Preventing Increased Damages
11-1-7: Protecting Buildings
11-1-8: Other Development Requirements
11-1-9: Variances
11-1-10: Disclaimer
11-1-11: Existing Developments
11-1-12: Violation; Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  8-1A-2 of this code, amended section 1612.3.
11-1-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/
11-31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise development from increasing flood or drainage hazards
to others.
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage.
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding.
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations.
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas.
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program. (1999 Code § 12.01)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled
or exceeded in any given year. The "base flood" is also known as the 100-year
flood. The "base flood elevation" at any location is as defined in section
11-1-4 of this chapter.
   BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   DEVELOPMENT: A. Any manmade change to real estate, including:
      1.   The construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building valued at more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   The installing of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
one hundred eighty (180) days.
      3.   The installing of utilities, construction of roads or similar
projects.
      4.   The construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts.
      5.   The drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating or
other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface.
      6.   The storage of materials.
      7.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading or
construction of levees.
   FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of inundation of normally dry land
areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of
surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot (1') at any given location in the SFHA.
   FLOODWAY: That portion of the SFHA required to store and convey the base
flood. The "floodway" for each SFHA of the village shall be according to the
best data available from the Illinois state water survey floodplain information
repository.
   RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek,
intermittent stream, ditch or any other identified channel. This term does not
include areas subject to flooding from lakes (except public bodies of water),
ponding areas, areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank
flooding.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
village that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The "SFHAs" of the
village are generally defined as such on the most recent flood insurance rate
map of the village prepared by the federal emergency management agency. The
"SFHAs" of those parts of unincorporated DeKalb County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the
village are generally identified as such on the most recent flood insurance
rate map prepared for DeKalb County by the federal emergency management agency.
(1999 Code § 12.02; amd. Ord. 2010-09, 7-13-2010)
11-1-3: CODE OFFICIAL:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment; Qualifications: There is hereby created
the office of code official of the village, an administrative office of the
village. The office shall be filled by appointment of a person educated,
trained or experienced in construction practices or by contract with another
governmental inspection agency. The appointment or contract shall be made by
the village president, subject to the approval of the village board of
trustees. (1999 Code § 12.03; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Duties: The code official shall be responsible for the general
administration and enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to,
the following duties: (1999 Code § 12.04; amd. 2005 Code)
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHA of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
      3.   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
Illinois department of transportation, division of water resources, for all
development projects subject to section
11-1-6 of this chapter and maintain a record of such authorization.
      4.   Maintain a record of the as built elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all buildings subject to section
11-1-7 of this chapter.
      5.   Maintain a record of the engineer's certificate and the as built
floodproofed elevation of all building subject to subsection
11-1-7B4 of this chapter.
      6.   Inspect all development projects to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
      7.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program.
      8.   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, base flood
data, SFHA maps, copies of federal or state permit documents and as built
elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this
chapter. (1999 Code § 12.04)
11-1-4: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
existing data with better data and submit it to the state water survey and the
federal emergency management agency.
   A.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining SFHAs delineated as
an unnumbered A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the village shall be
according to the best data available to the Illinois state water survey
floodplain information repository. When no base flood elevation exists, the
base flood elevation shall be the 100-year flood depth calculated according to
the formulas presented in "Frequency Distributions And Hydroclimatic
Characteristics Of Heavy Rainstorms In Illinois" (bulletin 70), published by
the Illinois state water survey, 1989.
   B.   The base flood elevation for the SFHA of those parts of unincorporated
DeKalb County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village
or that may be annexed into the village shall be according to the best data
available to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository.
(1999 Code § 12.05)
11-1-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Development Permit:
      1.   Permit And Compliance Required: No person, firm, corporation or
governmental body not exempted by state law shall commence any development in
the SFHA without first obtaining a development permit from the code official.
The code official shall not issue a development permit if the proposed
development does not meet the requirements of this chapter. (1999 Code § 12.06;
amd. 2005 Code)
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for a development permit
shall be accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property
line dimensions, existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting
from the excavation or filling, the location and dimensions of all buildings
and additions to the buildings and the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
11-1-7 of this chapter. (1999 Code § 12.06)
      3.   Exemptions From Permit: Upon receipt of an application for a
development permit, the code official shall compare the elevation of the site
to the base flood elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown
to have been higher than the base flood elevation as of the date of the site's
first flood insurance rate map identification is not located in the SFHA and
therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The code official
shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at the
development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior to
the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map identification. (1999
Code § 12.06; amd. 2005 Code)
      4.   Conditions Of Permit:
         a.   Compliance With Provisions: All work performed under a
development permit shall conform to the approved application and plans and
approved amendments thereto.
         b.   Posting Of Permit: A copy of the development permit shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises, in plain view from a public
road, during the execution of the work and until completion of the same.
         c.   Expiration Of Permit: A development permit under which no work is
commenced within six (6) months after issuance shall expire by limitation, and
a new development permit shall be secured before work is started. (1999 Code §
12.09)
      5.   Other Permits: The code official shall inform the applicant of any
and all other local, state and federal permits that may be required for this
type of development activity. The code official shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal and state permits have been obtained. (1999
Code § 12.06; amd. 2005 Code)
   B.   Use Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy any buildings
or any development site or any part thereof hereafter constructed in the SFHA
without first making application for obtaining a use permit from the code
official.
      2.   Request For Permit; Issuance Or Denial: Request for a use permit
shall be submitted to the code official upon completion of the work authorized
in the development permit issued for the project in question. If, upon final
inspection of a building or development site, the code official finds that the
work has been performed in accordance with the approved application and plans
of the development permit, a use permit may be issued. If final inspection
reveals otherwise, a use permit may not be issued until all deficiencies are
corrected. (1999 Code § 12.07; amd. 2005 Code)
   C.   Permit Fees: Fees for permits shall be as follows:
      1.   Use Permit: For a use permit: No fee.
      2.   Development Permit: For a development permit for clearing debris,
demolishing buildings or removing buildings out of the SFHA: No fee.
      3.   Building Permit:
         a.   For construction of a building valued at more than one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00): One hundred dollars ($100.00). (1999 Code §
12.13)
         b.   For construction or reconstruction of a building valued at less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and for any other development
project that requires three (3) site inspections by the code official: Seventy
five dollars ($75.00). (1999 Code § 12.13; amd. 2005 Code)
      4.   Other Developments: For improvements made to an existing building,
for installing a manufactured home on a permanent site and for any other
development project: Fifty dollars ($50.00). (1999 Code § 12.13)
   D.   Permit Review; Approval Or Denial: The code official shall examine each
application for a permit within three (3) days after filing. If, after
examination, it appears that the proposed development or use of the site will
be in compliance with this chapter and such other ordinances and resolutions
passed by the board of trustees applicable thereto, the code official shall
approve such application and issue the appropriate permit as soon as
practicable. If the examination reveals otherwise, the application shall be
rejected, and the code official's findings shall be noted in a written report
to be attached to the application. A copy of the report shall be provided to
the applicant upon request. (1999 Code § 12.08; amd. 2005 Code)
   E.   Inspections: All work for which a permit is required shall be subject
to inspection by the code official or duly authorized representative. It shall
be unlawful to refuse to permit the code official or the representative to
enter such premises or structure at any reasonable time to make an inspection.
It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder the code official or the
representative when in the performance of his duties. (1999 Code § 12.10; amd.
2005 Code)
   F.   Revocation Of Permit: The code official may revoke a permit in case
there has been any false statement and misrepresentation as to a material fact
in the application or plans on which the permit was based. The code official
may revoke a permit when work is performed contrary to the provisions of the
application or plans on which the permit is based. When a permit is revoked,
the code official shall inform the permittee in writing of the specific steps
the permittee must take in order to have the permit reissued. It shall be
unlawful to continue any work authorized by a permit after revocation of that
permit and until the permit is reissued or until a new permit is issued. (1999
Code § 12.11; amd. 2005 Code)
11-1-6: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
   A.   No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and
safety.
   B.   Within all riverine SFHAs, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a development
permit for a site located in a floodway (or in a riverine SFHA where no
floodway has been identified) shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit, or written documentation that a permit is not required, from
the Illinois department of transportation, division of water resources, issued
pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
      2.   The following activities may be constructed without the individual
permit required in subsection B1 of this section:
         a.   The construction of wells, septic tanks and underground utility
lines not crossing a lake or stream.
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures.
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade.
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions and carports.
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size nor ten feet (10') in any dimension (i.e.,
animal shelters and tool sheds).
         f.   The construction of additions to an existing building which does
not increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which
additions are located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing
building and which do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that
are parallel to the flow of floodwater.
      3.   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot (1') for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream and will not increase flood damage or potential flood
damage.
   C.   Public health standards in an SFHA:
      1.   No development in an SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of subsection
11-1-7B4 of this chapter.
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on site waste disposal
systems may be permitted, provided all manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the FPE are watertight. (1999 Code § 12.14)
11-1-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In addition to the damage prevention
requirements of section
11-1-6 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPE. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      2.   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%) or the market value of the
building by more than fifty percent (50%).
      3.   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are valued
at more than fifty percent (50%) of the market value of a building before the
damage occurred.
      4.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This subsection A4 does not apply to returning a
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage.
      5.   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days. (1999 Code § 12.15)
   B.   Methods Of Protection: The building protection requirement may be met
by one of the following methods. The code official shall maintain a record of
compliance with these building protection standards as required in subsection
11-1-3B of this chapter. (1999 Code § 12.15; amd. 2005 Code)
      1.   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on
permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot (1')
deep before compaction.
         b.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
FPE. The fill should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the foundation of
the building before sloping below the FPE.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three (3) horizontal to one vertical.
         d.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
walls, stilts, piles or other foundation; provided, that the walls have
permanent openings no more than one foot (1') above grade and that the walls
and floor are not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures associated with
the base flood.
         b.   The foundations and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjacent structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as currents, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement) and all
electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing and air conditioning equipment and
utility meters shall be located at or above the FPE. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPE.
      3.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be installed on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be elevated at or above the FPE
in accordance with subsection B1 or B2 of this section and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with
the rules and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tie down act issued
pursuant to 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 through 120/6.
      4.   Only a nonresidential building may be floodproofed in accordance
with the following:
         a.   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris and ice.
         b.   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
      5.   In the case of garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a
residential use, wet floodproofing meeting the following conditions shall be
sufficient:
         a.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable; and
         b.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into workshops, greenhouses, living
areas, etc.; and
         c.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway; and
         d.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot; and
         e.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built
of materials not susceptible to flood damage as provided in FEMA technical
bulletin 2-93; and
         f.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning, electrical,
etc., must be elevated above the flood protection elevation; and
         g.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on
each wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of
opening for every square foot of floor area as provided in FEMA technical
bulletin 1-93; and
         h.   The garage or shed must be less than seven thousand dollars
($7,000.00) in market value or replacement cost, whichever is greater, or less
than six hundred (600) square feet; and
         i.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning; and
         j.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
         k.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance requirements. (1999 Code § 12.15)
11-1-8: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The board of trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the
extent that they are known, in all official actions related to land management,
use and development.
   B.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer parks,
annexation agreements, planned unit developments (PUD) and additions to
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet the requirements of
sections
11-1-6 and
11-1-7 of this chapter. Plats or plans for new subdivisions, manufactured home
parks and a PUD shall include a signed statement by a registered professional
engineer that the plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface
waters in accordance with the plat act, 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 205/2.
   C.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailers, a PUD and additions to manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall
include base flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois
state water survey, the applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base
flood elevation and the floodway delineation and submitting it to the state
water survey for review and approval as best available regulatory data. (1999
Code § 12.16)
   D.   The placement of site runoff storage, detention or retention facilities
within floodplain areas is discouraged.
      1.   However, site runoff storage or detention requirements of the
village may be fulfilled by providing site runoff storage within flood fringe
areas provided that the following provisions are met:
         a.   The placement of a site runoff storage facility in a flood fringe
area shall require compensatory storage for 1.1 times the volume below base
flood elevation occupied by the site runoff storage facility including any
berms. The release from the storage facility shall still be controlled in
accordance with this code. The operation of the site runoff storage facility
during rainfall events and periods of high stream flow and backwater events
shall be considered in the design of the storage facility. The applicant shall
submit the necessary hydraulic and hydrologic calculations demonstrating the
proper operation of the storage facility for all stream flow and floodplain
backwater conditions.
         b.   Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses shall be
opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain storage
lost below the 10-year floodplain elevation shall be replaced below the 10-year
floodplain elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the 10-year floodplain
elevation shall be replaced above the 10-year floodplain elevation. All
compensatory storage excavations shall be designed and constructed to have
positive drainage and drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
      2.   Site runoff storage facilities shall only be placed in the floodway
provided the following provisions are met:
         a.   On stream storage facilities are discouraged but allowable if
they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other provisions of
this code pertaining to water quality and flood control. If on stream storage
facilities are used for watershed greater than one square mile, then the
applicant shall use dynamic modeling to demonstrate that the design will not
increase the water surface elevation of any properties upstream or downstream
of the property.
         b.   Impoundment of the stream as part of on stream storage shall meet
the following provisions:
            (1)   The migration of indigenous fish species which require access
to upstream areas as a part of their life cycle, such as for spawning, shall
not be prevented.
            (2)   The on stream storage facility shall not cause or contribute
to the degradation of water quality or stream aquatic habitat.
            (3)   The design shall include gradual bank slopes, appropriate
bank stabilization measures, and a sediment control basin placed upstream of
the storage facility.
            (4)   The design shall not involve any stream channelization or the
filling of wetlands.
            (5)   The design shall include the implementation of an effective
nonpoint source management program through the upstream watershed which shall
include, at minimum, runoff reduction best management practices in accordance
with applicable state and federal regulations and the village environmental
policy, as such regulations and policy may be amended from time to time, a
permanent sediment control basin for all development sized to hold the volume
of a two (2) year, twenty four (24) hour event, and a program to control
nonpoint sources at the source for prior development constructed without
appropriate storm water best management practices.
            (6)   The storage facility shall not be located downstream of any
wastewater discharge.
            (7)   The storage facility shall comply with the provisions of
Illinois regulations contained at 17 Illinois administrative code 3702 and
3708. (Ord. 2007-01, 2-13-2007)
11-1-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place an undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
village zoning official for a variance. The village zoning official shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit his
recommendation to the board of trustees. The board of trustees may attach such
conditions to the granting of a variance as it deems necessary to further the
intent of this chapter.
   B.   Reasons For Granting Variance Request: No variance shall be granted
unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance was not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or the
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities.
      6.   The provisions of subsection
11-1-5A5 of this chapter are not met.
      7.   The provisions of subsection
11-1-6B of this chapter are not met.
   C.   Effects And Risks Of Approved Variances: The village zoning official
shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of
section
11-1-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
that may be as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage.
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property.
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with the knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risks and
liability.
   D.   Historic Landmarks: Variances to the building protection requirements
of section
11-1-7 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsection B of this
section. (1999 Code § 12.17)
11-1-10: DISCLAIMER:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the SFHA
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully hereunder. Further, nothing contained within this title purports to
alter or affect any regulatory programs promulgated by any state or federal
agency except to the extent that the village has authority to impose additional
or separate regulations, or to enforce existing regulations or regulations to
be adopted by such state or federal agencies. Nothing contained within this
code shall release any person from obtaining appropriate review, approval or
permit(s) from other agencies including, but not limited to, the Illinois
department of natural resources. (Ord. 2007-01, 2-13-2007)
11-1-11: EXISTING DEVELOPMENTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall require changes in the plans, construction or
designated use of a building or other development project or portion thereof
which has been otherwise lawfully authorized, or the construction of which
shall have been actually begun and which entire building or development project
shall be completed within one year of the effective date hereof. (1999 Code §
12.12)
11-1-12: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Determination Of Violation; Notice: Failure to obtain a permit for
development in the SFHA or failure to comply with the requirements of a permit
or conditions of a variance resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of
this chapter. Upon due investigation, the village attorney may determine that a
violation of the minimum standards of this chapter exists. The village attorney
shall notify the owner in writing of such violation. (1999 Code § 12.19; amd.
2005 Code)
   B.   Penalties: If such owner fails, after ten (10) days' notice, to correct
the violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter. (1999 Code §
12.19)
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1999 Code § 12.19; amd. 2005 Code)
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   C.   Notice Of Possible Insurance Cancellation: The village attorney shall
inform the owner that any such violation is considered a wilful act to increase
flood damages and therefore, may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance
policy to be suspended.
   D.   Other Actions: Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking
such other lawful action to prevent or remedy any violations. Any costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. (1999
Code § 12.19)
 
