VILLAGE CODE
of
WAYNE, ILLINOIS
1998
Code current through:
Ord. 25-03, passed 4-1-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the Village of Wayne, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-03, passed 4-1-2025. Ordinances of
the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-07
 
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS
PROPERTY OWNED BY THE VILLAGE OF WAYNE (SQUAD CAR)
 
 
 
ADOPTED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WAYNE
DUPAGE AND KANE COUNTIES, ILLINOIS
 
THIS 7TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 2025
 
 
 
PUBLISHED by authority of the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Wayne, DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois
this     day of    , 2025
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-07
 
ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS
PROPERTY OWNED BY THE VILLAGE OF WAYNE (SQUAD CAR)
 
WHEREAS, The Village of Wayne (“Village”) is an Illinois non-home rule
municipality operating pursuant to the Illinois Municipal Code and applicable
law; and
 
WHEREAS, Section 11-76-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code authorizes the
corporate authorities of any non-home rule municipality to, by a simple
majority vote at any regular or special meeting, sell, dispose of, or trade any
personal property in such manner as the Village corporate authorities may
designate, when such personal property is determined to be no longer necessary
or useful to, or for the best interests of the Village; and
 
WHEREAS, in the opinion of a majority of the corporate authorities of the
Village now holding office, it is no longer necessary or useful to or in the
best interests of the Village to retain ownership of the surplus property
hereinafter described; and
 
WHEREAS, it has been determined by the Village President and Board of Trustees
of the Village that said surplus property be disposed of.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF WAYNE, DUPAGE AND KANE COUNTIES, ILLINOIS;
 
SECTION ONE: Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-76-4, the President and Board of Trustees
of the Village of Wayne hereby find and determine that: (i) the property
described on Exhibit 1 , attached hereto and made a part hereof, is no longer
necessary or useful to, or for the best interests of the Village; (ii) said
property is hereby designated “surplus property;” and (iii) the best interests
of the Village will be served by disposing of said surplus property in
accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION TWO: Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-76-4, the Police Chief or his designee is
hereby authorized and directed to dispose of the aforementioned personal
property by public sale to the highest bidder by means of an online auction, or
by such other means as determined by the Police Chief, to obtain the maximum
value of the aforementioned surplus personal property, on such terms as the
Police Chief determines to be in the best interests of the Village.
 
SECTION FOUR: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and approval in the manner provided by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
PASSED THIS _____ day of _______________, 2025.
 
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
 
APPROVED THIS _____ day of _______________, 2025.
 
                                                         _________________________________________
ATTEST:                  VILLAGE PRESIDENT
 
___________________________________
VILLAGE CLERK
 
PUBLISHED: _________________________
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
 
 
PROPERTY               VIN#              DEPARTMENT
2018 Ford Explorer SUV 1FM5K8AR3JGC94638 Police Department
 
 
 
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS )
          ) SS.
COUNTY OF DUPAGE )
 
CERTIFICATION
 
I, Patricia Engstrom, the undersigned, do hereby certify that I am the duly
appointed and acting Municipal Clerk of the Village of Wayne, DuPage and Kane
Counties, Illinois, and as such clerk I am the keeper of the records and files
of the President and Board of Trustees of the said Village.
 
I do further certify that the foregoing constitutes a full, true and complete
copy of
Ordinance No. 25-07 entitled:
 
ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS
PROPERTY OWNED BY THE VILLAGE OF WAYNE (SQUAD CAR)
 
I do further certify that the deliberations of the President and Board of
Trustees on the adoption of said Resolution were taken openly; that said
meeting was a regular meeting of the President and Board of Trustees, at which
time a quorum was present; that said meeting was held at a specified time and
place convenient to the public; that said meeting was held in strict accordance
with the provisions of the Open Meetings, Act, as amended; and that the
President and Board of Trustees have complied with all of the provisions of
said Act and its procedural rules in the adoption of said Resolution.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereto affixed my official signature and the
corporate seal of said Village of Wayne, DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois
this _____ day of ________, 2025.
 
 
 
__________________________
Patricia Engstrom, Village Clerk
Village of Wayne, Illinois
 
 
(SEAL)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 98-07
   VILLAGE OF WAYNE
   DUPAGE AND KANE COUNTIES, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Wayne, DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Wayne, Illinois being prepared by Sterling Codifiers,
Inc. containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together
with the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing
body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of
Trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances, zoning ordinances for specific properties, and
annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Village Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official Village Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   PASSED this 16th day of June, 1998.
   APPROVED this 16th day of June, 1998.
 
ROLL CALL VOTE:
AYES:   TRUSTEES CONNOLLY, GAULT, LAMPLOUGH, LEVINE, WALKER - FIVE (5)
   NAYS: NONE
ABSENT: TRUSTEE HULL - ONE (1)
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Wayne. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as THE WAYNE VILLAGE CODE,
and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be
kept up to date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the Village legal counsel, acting
for said Village Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1998 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the Village of a general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1998 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Village Code shall
make every effort to maintain it in an up-to-date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Village Clerk when directed so to do by order
of the Village Board. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances; Findings Of Fact
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES; FINDINGS OF FACT:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; and all special ordinances. All findings of fact in any general
ordinance, heretofore adopted and hereby repealed, are re-adopted as if fully
set forth herein, including but not limited to special service areas. (1998
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossing with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1998 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceedings, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party affected, applied to
any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Village Code. (1998 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or
other part of this Village Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to
be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or other part thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, phrases or other parts be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective unless a specific declaration
to the contrary is set forth in any specific ordinance. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-4: Permits
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the singular
number only or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding such
construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1998
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD: Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of Trustees of the Village of
Wayne.
CODE: The Village Code of Wayne, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Wayne.
COUNTY: The County of DuPage or the County of Kane, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Wayne".
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the Village is hereby established as commencing
on May 1 of each year and ending on April 30 of the following year.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Wayne".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
directly to the consumer.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Wayne, Counties of DuPage and Kane, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The Village President may be referred to as Mayor of the
Village. The term "Village President" as used in any ordinance, resolution,
motion or other action of the corporate authorities shall be construed as
meaning the Mayor; the term "Mayor" wherever so used shall be construed to mean
the Village President; and the title "Mayor" as used in the minutes of the
corporate authorities or any other official document shall be construed as
meaning "Village President".
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (Ord. 60-07, 5-2-1960; amd. 1998 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The headings of the several sections of the Village Code are intended to be
merely descriptive to indicate the content of the section and shall not be
deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit,
modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions
of any division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they
be so deemed when any of such sections, including the headings, are amended or
re-enacted. (1998 Code)
1-3-4: PERMITS:
To obtain a permit for various matters the Village requires the completion of a
Permit Application, along with accurate supporting documentation, so that the
Village can understand the project or request and make sure it complies with
the Village Code. Once a determination is made as to what permit is needed the
applicant must fill out an application and file with the Village. The applicant
should make sure to provide accurate contact information including email
address and phone number so staff can contact the applicant if needed. Permits
are issued by the department responsible for the permit subject matter
requested and, notwithstanding any other provision in the Village Code, permits
signed by the Village Zoning Officer, Director of Building and Zoning, Village
Engineer, or other designated staff, as the case may be, are deemed to be
properly issued. (Ord. 24-13, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Indemnification Of Certain Officers And Employees
1-4-4: Minor Violations
1-4-5: Building Code And Nuisance Violations
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Fine: Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision
of this Code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for any offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Right To Seek Fines: Without limitation on the Village's right to seek
fines as herein specified for violation of this Code, the Village may also seek
any other relief to which it may be entitled at law or in equity, including,
but not limited to, injunctive relief, against any person, and shall be
entitled, to the extent allowed or permitted by law, to recover its costs and
reasonable attorney fees thereby incurred. (Ord. 96-05, 6-7-1996; amd. Ord. 05-
14, 5-17-2005)
   C.   Conditional Discharge; Court Supervision; Restitution: In addition to a
fine described in subsection A of this section, the Circuit Court may impose a
period of conditional discharge as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
5-1-4 or court supervision as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-
21 of the Criminal Code, an order of restitution, an order to perform community
service, an order to complete an education program and/or any other appropriate
penalties or conditions authorized in any provision of this Code or other
Village ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set forth in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1 as the foregoing are amended from time to time.
   D.   Additional Remedies: The appropriate authorities of the Village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this Code including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to
compel compliance with its terms.
   E.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
Code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this section, to
the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
   F.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The Village Attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
Village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
Village Attorney under this subsection shall be charged to the offender. (Ord.
12-05, 5-15-2012)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or is declared to be unlawful shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues or
condition remains uncorrected unless otherwise specifically provided in this
Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply.
Where the Village has the right, by statute, ordinance or common law, to
commence any action at law or in equity to enforce any provision of this Code,
no such action shall be construed as a waiver of the Village's right to seek
imposition of a fine, in addition to any other remedy for violations. (1998
Code)
1-4-3: INDEMNIFICATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   To the fullest extent permitted by the Constitution of the State and
applicable law, including 745 Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/2-302 and 10/9-102,
any officer or employee of the Village including members of any boards or
commissions thereof, shall be indemnified, defended and held harmless by the
Village from and against all liabilities for compensatory damages, expenses of
investigation, judgments and amounts paid in settlement (including reasonable
attorney fees and costs, subject to subsection A3 of this section) which may be
imposed upon or reasonably incurred or paid by such officer or employee in
connection with or resulting from any claim made, or any action, suit,
proceeding or investigation ("claim") in which such officer or employee may be
involved, and which allegedly arose out of an act or omission occurring within
the scope of employment or official duties, i.e., simple or ordinary negligence
(including a claim in which the officer or employee and the Village itself or
other officers of the Village, acting in their governmental capacities, are
adverse parties), whether or not such officer or employee holds such position
at the time of such claim; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity
shall not extend to any of the following:
      1.   Any liability or cost with respect to any matter as to which such
officer or employee is finally adjudged to be guilty of bad faith, or actual
malice, or wilful and wanton misconduct in the performance of the duties as
such officer or employee, such activity being outside the scope of employment
or official duties;
      2.   Any payment, expense or cost arising out of a settlement of any
claim, unless:
         a.   Settlement shall be approved by the court having jurisdiction
over such claim, with express knowledge of the existence of the indemnification
provided hereby; or
         b.   Such settlement shall have been made upon the written opinion of
the Village Attorney to the effect that there is no reasonable grounds for any
finding of bad faith, actual malice, wilful and wanton misconduct or other acts
outside the scope of official duties or employment on the part of such officer
or employee that proximately caused the damage complained of; and
      3.   The cost of independent legal representation in any such claim, if
the Village offers or otherwise indicates its willingness to provide a legal
defense with respect to such claim, provided, however, that with respect to
claims in which such officer or employee and the Village itself or other
officer of the Village acting in their governmental capacities, are adverse
parties, the cost of independent legal representation shall be paid for by the
Village upon submittal of documentation substantiating such cost; provided
further, that in the event the officer or employee is finally adjudged to be
guilty of bad faith, or actual malice, or wilful and wanton misconduct in the
performance of his duties with respect to such claim, the officer or employee
shall, immediately after such judgment, reimburse the Village for all costs
theretofore paid by the Village on behalf of such officer or employee. (Ord.
01-16, 10-2-2001)
   B.   The rights of indemnification as provided in this section shall be in
addition to any other rights to which such officer or employee may otherwise be
entitled as a matter of law.
   C.   Indemnification shall be provided by the Village to police officers as
provided by applicable law, including 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-4-6.
(Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999)
1-4-4: MINOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Scope Of Adjudication Of Village Ordinance Violations:
      1.   Authority: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2 et
seq., 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, and the Constitution of the
State of Illinois, the Village of Wayne hereby establishes a procedure for a
system of local adjudication of violations of this Code to the extent permitted
by local ordinance and State law.
      2.   Shared Process Acceptable: The process for adjudicating local
ordinance violations may be consolidated and organized in conjunction with
other types of administrative adjudications so authorized by this Code.
      3.   Procedures Non-Exclusive: The adoption of the system of adjudication
for minor ordinance violations procedures are non-exclusive and shall not
preclude the Village from using other methods to enforce its Municipal
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the prosecution of such violations
in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Composition Of Code Hearing Division; Powers And Duties:
      1.   Code Hearing Division Established: A Code Hearing Division is hereby
established with the authority to oversee the system of local ordinance
adjudication prosecutions in the Village, as further provided herein.
      2.   Hearing Officer: All adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by
a Hearing Officer, who shall be appointed by the Village President with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Hearing Officer's powers and
duties shall include the authority to:
         a.   Preside over adjudicatory hearings, listen to testimony, and
accept evidence that is relevant to the existence of code violations;
         b.   Administer oaths;
         c.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives,
issue subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearings;
         d.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence;
         e.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings;
         f.   Weigh the evidence at hearings based upon relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony;
         g.   Make ultimate findings and determinations based on the relevant
and competent evidence presented at a hearing of whether a code violation
exists;
         h.   Issue a written determination, which shall include findings of
fact, final decision, and order, and which shall include any fine, costs,
penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply should the
defendant be found liable;
         i.   The Hearing Officer shall not have the authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation; and,
         j.   Cause the adjudicatory hearings to be recorded.
      3.   Administrator: The Administrator shall be authorized and directed to
perform the following functions:
         a.   Operate and manage this system of adjudicatory hearings;
         b.   Adopt, distribute, and process code violation notices and other
notices as may be required to carry out the purpose of this chapter;
         c.   Collect and process monies paid after a final determination of a
code violation;
         d.   Promulgate internal rules and regulations reasonably required to
operate and maintain this administrative hearing system;
         e.   Certify copies of final determinations of standing and/or parking
regulation violation liability, vehicle compliance violation, vehicle sticker
violation or any other ordinance violation adjudicated pursuant to this
chapter, and any factual reports verifying the final determination of any
violation of liability which was issued in accordance with this chapter or the
laws of the State, including 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3, as may
be amended from time to time;
         f.   Certify reports to the Secretary of State concerning initiation
of suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5; and,
         g.   Collect unpaid fines and/or penalties and otherwise pursue all
post judgment remedies available under law, including compromising and setting
violation notices prior to a hearing date which shall be approved by a Hearing
Officer;
         h.   The Administrator shall also serve as the Traffic Compliance
Officer, as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3;
         i.   Other duties as authorized by statute and as may be assigned from
time to time.
   C.   Administrative Hearing Process:
   1.   Authority: All full-time, part-time, and auxiliary police officers, the
Zoning Enforcement Officer of the Village, the Village Engineer, the Village
Attorney, as well as other individuals specifically appointed by the Board,
shall have the authority to issue violation notices.
      2.   Subpoenas: Parties may request in writing to the Hearing Officer
before the hearing date that the Hearing Officer issue subpoenas to direct
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant
documents.
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two (2) working days
prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer assigned to the case may, at the
request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearing. If, on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his attorney fails
to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the defendant in default and shall
proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation in the defendant's absence.
      3.   Hearing: At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an
opportunity to give testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-
examine opposing witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel.
      4.   Continuances: No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing
Officer except in cases in which a continuance is necessary to protect the
rights of the parties. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance.
      5.   Content Of Violation Notice For General Ordinance Violations: When a
Village official with authority to enforce Village ordinances and code
provisions makes a determination that a violation has occurred, he or she shall
note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice and report form that
indicates the following:
         a.   Name and address of defendant;
         b.   Type and nature of violation, including section or regulation
violated and legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be
held;
         c.   Date and time the violation was observed;
         d.   Address of the location where the violation was observed;
         e.   Name(s) of witness(es) to the violation, if any;
         f.   The amount of fine, if any, and notice that failure to pay within
the allotted time will result in adjudication of the violation notice through
the administrative hearing process and the penalties for failing to appear at
the administrative hearing;
         g.   Signature and identification number, if applicable, of the person
issuing the violation notice (in the case of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulations the certification shall be valid if the authorized
person signs the notice at the time of service);
         h.   Hearing date, time, and location;
         i.   Penalty for any late fee; and,
         j.   Vehicle make and state registration number, if applicable.
      6.   Content Of Violation Notice For Ordinance Violations Related To
Vehicle Standing, Parking, And Other Compliance Regulations: In addition to the
above, there shall be a section entitled "request for hearing" setting forth
that the registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial administrative
hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the date and at the
time and place as specified by the violation notice by:
         a.   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified as "request for hearing";
         b.   If a non-resident of the Village of Wayne or DuPage or Kane
County, checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly identified
as "nonresident request for hearing nonappearance";
         c.   Placing his name and current address in the place provided;
         d.   Signing his name in the appropriate indicated place;
         e.   Filing the violation notice, with the request for hearing portion
fully completed, with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation was issued between the 1st through 15th day
of the month, or postmarked by the 10th of the month, if the violation notice
was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month. The request shall
be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator; and,
         f.   A clearly marked statement that the execution of the nonresident
request for hearing is a waiver of the nonresident's right to a personal
appearance and the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized statement
of facts submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the violation
notice.
      7.   Violation Notices: The violation report derived from the violation
notice shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing Division where a docket number
shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a hearing date shall be noted
or filled in. The hearing date shall be not less than thirty (30) nor more than
forty (40) days after the notice is served. One copy of the violation notice
and report shall be maintained in the files of the Code Hearing Division and
shall be part of the record of the hearing; one copy of the report shall be
returned to the individual representing the Village in the case so that he or
she may prepare evidence of the code violation for presentation at the hearing
on the date indicated; and one copy of the report form shall be served either
in person or by first class mail to the defendant, along with a summons
commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing. Hand delivery of the
violation notice containing the required content shall be sufficient for in
person service. Service of a violation notice may be made by affixing the
original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully standing or parked
vehicle.
   D.   Prima Facie Case, Evidence, And Standards Of Proof:
      1.   Prima Facie Case: A prima facie case may be established if the
violation notice served in compliance with the provisions of this chapter is
certified by the issuer. A violation notice shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
      2.   Rules Of Evidence: The formal and technical rules of evidence shall
not apply in the adjudicatory hearing process.
      3.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof to sustain a finding of
violation of Village ordinances shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   E.   Findings, Decision, Order, And Penalty:
      1.   Hearing Officer Determination: At the conclusion of a hearing, the
Hearing Officer shall make a determination, on the basis of the relevant and
competent evidence presented at the hearing, whether or not a code or ordinance
violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be designated
as findings, decision, and order. The findings, decision, and order shall
include the Hearing Officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not a
code or ordinance violation existed based upon the findings of fact, and an
order.
      2.   Determination Of Violation: If an ordinance violation is found, the
order may impose a fine and costs and may direct the defendant to correct the
violation and/or impose such other sanctions as may be appropriate as allowed
by law consistent with Village ordinance; set a date by which the violation
must be brought into compliance, if applicable. The order shall contain a
statement of the penalties for late payment and that any unpaid fines, costs,
and penalty assessed is a debt due and owing to the Village after the
exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial procedures for review. In the
case in which a defendant fails to comply with a judgment ordering the
correction of a code violation or imposing any fine or other sanction as a
result of the code violation, the order shall provide that any expense incurred
by the Village to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, shall be
a debt due and owing to the Village and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. If a violation is not found, the order shall include a
statement to that effect and dismiss the case. A copy of the findings,
decision, and order shall be served on the owner within five (5) days after
issuance by first class mail.
      3.   Default Judgment: A notice of judgment entered by default shall be
forwarded to any person who fails to appear and shall contain the same
information as a determination of liability but shall also state that the
judgment may be set aside by the Hearing Officer if, within twenty one (21)
days of issuance of the judgement, a petition is received stating what the
Hearing Officer determines is good cause for failure to appear. The default
judgment shall state that it constitutes a final determination of liability if
such petition is not received, if the petition is denied, or after setting a
new hearing date the person fails to appear.
      4.   Penalties And Costs: The Hearing Officer shall not have the
authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in excess of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation except for those
offenses under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 which shall carry a
maximum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). When applicable, however, each day a
code provision is found to have been violated by the defendant shall constitute
a separate offense, and each separate offense subjects the defendant to the
fine and penalty provided by the governing fine or penalty provision. Any fine
assessed is exclusive of any costs imposed. In all cases where there is a
determination of liability by the Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer shall
impose administrative costs (i.e., court costs) in the amount of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) or greater.
      5.   Additional Penalties And Costs: In addition, and not withstanding
any fines and administrative costs, the Hearing Officer may order:
         a.   Costs incurred by the Village for effecting compliance with code
provision(s) for which a defendant has been found liable;
         b.   Compliance with the code provision(s) found to have been
violated;
         c.   Performance of a term of community service in lieu of fines.
      6.   Standing, Parking, Compliance Regulation Notices: For all vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations, there shall be a second
notice sent following a failure to appear at the hearing. In addition, a notice
of final determination shall be sent following an appearance by the violator
and a determination of the liability or the failure to appear by the violator
by the final hearing date upon conclusion of judicial review. The notice shall
contain, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   The date and location of violation cited in the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation notice;
         b.   The particular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated;
         c.   The vehicle make and state registration;
         d.   The fine, court costs, and any penalty that may be assessed for
late payment;
         e.   A notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current
status, other than paid in full;
         f.   The date, time, and place of the administrative hearing at which
the alleged violation may be contested on its merits if the individual failed
to appear at his or her first hearing date;
         g.   A statement that the failure to either pay the fine and any
applicable penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the
date and at the time and place specified will result in a final determination
of vehicle standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation liability for
the cited vehicle violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated, as
well as court costs;
         h.   If a final determination occurs, a statement that a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking or compliance violation liability
for the failure, and exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty will constitute a debt due
and owing to the Village;
         i.   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the Village within the time specified may result in the Village's filing
a complaint in the Circuit Court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment as provided herein;
         j.   A warning that failure to pay the fine or penalty owing within
forty five (45) days of the date of the notice may result in the Village
notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for initiation of
suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5 if they
have failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing as a result of ten (10) or
more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations.
      7.   Notices: Notice issued pursuant to these provisions shall be sent as
follows:
         a.   Notice Of Impending Suspension Of License: A notice of impending
suspension of a person's driver's license shall be sent to any person
determined to be liable for the payment of any fine or penalty that remains due
and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violations. The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine
or penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will
result in the Village notifying the Secretary of State that the person is
eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-306.5. The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall
be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
Secretary of State.
         b.   Other Notices Regarding Vehicles: Notices shall be sent to the
registered owner of the cited vehicle at the address as is recorded with the
Secretary of State or sent to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the address
last known to the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of the lease by first
class mail, postage prepaid.
         c.   Notices Not Related To Vehicular Standing, Parking, Or
Compliance: All other notices shall be sent to the last known address of the
individual by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      8.   Petition To Set Aside: A petition to set aside a determination of
liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty, or by a
person required to complete a traffic education program. The petition shall be
filed with the Traffic Compliance Administrator within twenty one (21) days of
the date of the determination.
         a.   The grounds for the petition are limited to:
            (1)   The person not having been the owner or lessee of the cited
vehicle on the date the violation notice was issued,
            (2)   The person having already completed the required education
program or paid the fine or penalty, or both, for the violation in question, or
            (3)   Excusable failure to appear or request a new date for a
hearing.
         b.   The Traffic Compliance Administrator may approve the petition if
the Traffic Compliance Officer is satisfied that the petitioner has made a
satisfactory showing that the determination should be set aside.
         c.   Failure to submit a petition to set aside shall not constitute a
failure to exhaust administrative remedies by the person owing an unpaid fine
or penalty, or by a person required to complete a traffic education program
should said person seek administrative review of the determination of
liability.
   F.   Fees:
      1.   Fines And Fees Paid Within Twenty One Days: All fines and fees must
be paid within twenty one (21) days of issuance of the determination of
liability and the exhaustion or failure to exhaust any administrative remedy.
Failing to pay the total fines and costs within twenty one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability and the exhaustion or the failure to
exhaust any administrative review procedures as set forth in this chapter shall
result in the imposition of a late penalty payment fee as follows:
         a.   Between Twenty Two And Forty Two Days: A late payment penalty fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be imposed if the total fines and costs are
paid more than twenty one (21) days following the issuance of the determination
of liability but within forty two (42) days following the issuance of the
determination of liability.
         b.   Between Forty Three And Sixty Three Days: A late payment penalty
in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be imposed if the total
fines and costs are paid more than forty two (42) days following the issuance
of the determination of liability but within sixty three (63) days following
the issuance of the determination of liability.
         c.   After Sixty Three Days: A late payment penalty fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more
than sixty three (63) days following the issuance of the determination of
liability.
   G.   Judicial Review:
      1.   Final Determination: Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that an
ordinance violation does or does not exist shall constitute a final
determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to review
under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, as amended.
      2.   Expiration Of Judicial Review Period: After the expiration of the
period within which judicial review under Administrative Review Law may be
sought for final determination of an ordinance violation, the Village may
commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of the Eighteenth Judicial Circuit,
DuPage County, Illinois, for the purpose of obtaining a judgment on the
findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
Village from the consolidation of multiple findings, decisions, and orders
against a person in such a proceeding.
      3.   Subsequent Proceedings: Issues such as whether an ordinance
violation occurred and the penalties that are imposed may not be raised in any
enforcement proceeding after the period for judicial review has passed.
   H.   Nonresident Procedures:
      1.   Procedure: Nonresidents of this Village who have been issued a
vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violation notice may
contest the alleged violation on its merits without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
         a.   Completing, in full, the "nonresident request for hearing"
section of the violation notice;
         b.   Signing the "nonresident request for hearing" in the space
specified in the violation notice and acknowledging that his personal
appearance is waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized
statement filed by him and the facts contained in the violation notice;
         c.   Filing the violation notice with "request for hearing" section
fully completed with the Ordinance Enforcement Administrator postmarked by the
25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between the 1st through
the 15th day of the month or postmarked by the 10th day of the month if the
violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the prior month.
The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Ordinance Enforcement
Administrator;
         d.   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the Administrator
postmarked by the 25th of the month, if the violation notice was issued between
the 1st through the 15th day of the month, or postmarked by the 10th of the
month, if the violation notice was issued between the 16th and the end of the
prior month. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
Administrator. The acceptance of a "nonresident request for hearing" after the
due date or with cause is at the discretion of the Administrator;
         e.   The Hearing Officer shall make an adjudication based upon the
facts set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as
is contained in the violation notice;
         f.   Notice of the determination of the Hearing Officer shall be
served upon the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
the nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted;
         g.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date notice is
placed in the United States mail.
      2.   All Other Provisions Apply: All other provisions of this chapter
shall apply equally to nonresidents.
   I.   Enforcement Of Administrative Orders:
      1.   Debt Due And Owing: Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that
remains unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
review procedures under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, shall be
considered a debt due and owing to the Village and enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction and may be collected
in accordance with applicable law.
   J.   Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement:
      1.   Validity Of Other Systems: This chapter shall not affect the
validity of any other system of administrative adjudications that were
authorized by State law, including the Village of Wayne ordinances.
      2.   Contempt: Any person, having received notice and opportunity for a
hearing as provided in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an
order issued by the Hearing Officer under this chapter, including the issuance
of a subpoena, shall, if the order is not stayed by the court of competent
jurisdiction prior to its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Each day that
a violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. It
shall not be a defense that a person came into compliance with an order, sought
judicial review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to
its effective date.
      3.   Additional Expenses Due: Any expense incurred by a municipality to
enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, court
costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure, after they are
fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer, shall be a
debt due and owing to the Village and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. However, prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing
Officer, the Village shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the
defendant shall appear at a hearing before the Administrative Hearing Officer
to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The
notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than
seven (7) days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by
mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to run on the date notice was
deposited in the mail.
   K.   Collections Of Fines And Costs: All fines and other monies to be paid
to the Village in accordance with this chapter shall be remitted to the Village
and deposited in the appropriate Village account as designated by the Village
Administrator, or his designee. (Ord. 19-11, 7-16-2019)
1-4-5: BUILDING CODE AND NUISANCE VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Scope Of Adjudication Of Certain Building Code And Nuisance Violations:
      1.   Authority: Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et
seq., the Village of Wayne hereby establishes a procedure for a system of local
adjudication of certain Building Code and nuisance violations to the extent
permitted by local ordinance and State law. Violations which may be pursued
under this section include any provision of this Code that establishes
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or
other health and safety standards that are applicable to structures in the
Village, or any Village ordinance that requires, after notice, the cutting of
weeds, the removal of garbage and debris, the removal of inoperable motor
vehicles, or the abatement of nuisances from private property.
      2.   Shared Process Acceptable: The process for adjudicating Building
Code and nuisance violations may be consolidated and organized in conjunction
with the process for other types of administrative adjudications so authorized
by this Code.
      3.   Procedures Non-Exclusive: The adoption of the Building Code and
nuisance administrative adjudication procedures are non- exclusive and shall
not preclude the Village from using other methods to enforce its Municipal
ordinances, including, but not limited to, the prosecution of such violations
in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Composition Of Code Hearing Division; Powers And Duties:
      1.   Code Hearing Division Established: A Code Hearing Division is hereby
established with the authority to oversee the Building Code and nuisance
administrative adjudication prosecutions in the Village, as further provided
herein.
      2.   Hearing Officer: All adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by
a duly qualified Hearing Officer, who shall be appointed by the Village
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Hearing
Officer's powers and duties shall include the authority to:
         a.   Preside over adjudicatory hearings, listen to testimony, and
accept evidence that is relevant to the existence of code violations;
         b.   Administer oaths;
         c.   Upon written request of the parties or their representatives,
issue subpoenas and direct witnesses to appear and give testimony at the
hearings;
         d.   Rule upon objections and the admissibility of evidence;
         e.   Preserve and authenticate the record, including the exhibits and
evidence introduced at hearings;
         f.   Weigh the evidence at hearings based upon relevancy and
competence, determine the credibility of witnesses, and resolve conflicts in
testimony;
         g.   Make ultimate findings and determinations based on the relevant
and competent evidence presented at a hearing of whether a code violation
exists;
         h.   Issue a written determination, which shall include findings of
fact, final decision, and order, and which shall include any fine, costs,
penalty or other action with which the defendant must comply should the
defendant be found liable; and,
         i.   The Hearing Officer shall not have the authority to impose a
penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in excess of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
   C.   Administrative Code Hearing Process:
      1.   Content Of Violation Notice: When a Village official with authority
to enforce Village Building Code and nuisance violations makes a determination
that a violation has occurred, he or she shall note the violation on a multiple
copy violation notice and report form that indicates the following:
         a.   Name and address of defendant;
         b.   Type and nature of violation, including section or regulation
violated and legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be
held;
         c.   Date and time the violation was observed;
         d.   Address of the structure where violation was observed;
         e.   Name(s) of witness(es) to the violation, if any;
         f.   Date, time, and location of the adjudicatory hearing;
         g.   The amount of fine, if any, and notice that failure to pay within
the allotted time will result in adjudication of the violation notice through
the administrative hearing process and the penalties for failing to appear at
the administrative hearing;
         h.   Signature and identification number, if applicable, of the person
issuing the violation notice;
         i.   Hearing date, time, and location; and,
         j.   Penalty for any late fee.
The violation report form shall be forwarded to the Code Hearing Division where
a docket number shall be stamped on all copies of the report and a hearing date
shall be noted in the blank space provided for that purpose on the form. The
hearing date shall be not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days
after the violation is reported by the building inspector. One copy of the
violation notice shall be maintained in the files of the Code Hearing Division
and shall be part of the record at the hearing; one copy of the report form
shall be returned to the individual representing the Village in the case so he
or she may prepare evidence of the Building Code violation or nuisance for
presentation at the hearing on the date indicated; and one copy of the report
form shall be served either in person or by first class mail to the defendant,
along with a summons commanding the defendant to appear at the hearing.
If the name of the owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or if service
on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may be made on the owner by
posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on the front door of the
structure where the violation is found, not less than twenty (20) days before
the hearing is scheduled.
      2.   Subpoenas: Parties may request in writing to the Hearing Officer
before the hearing date that the Hearing Officer issue subpoenas to direct
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant
documents.
At any time prior to the hearing date, but not less than two (2) working days
prior to the hearing date, the Hearing Officer assigned to hear the case may,
at the request of either party, direct witnesses to appear and give testimony
at the hearing. If on the date set for hearing, the defendant or his or her
attorney fails to appear, the Hearing Officer may find the defendant in default
and shall proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the
existence of a Building Code violation or nuisance in the defendant's absence.
      3.   Hearing: At the hearing, parties shall be provided with an
opportunity to give testimony, present witnesses, submit evidence, and cross-
examine opposing witnesses. Parties may be represented by legal counsel.
      4.   Notice Other Than Mail: If the person who has been charged with a
Building Code or nuisance violation cannot be found or served by first class
mail, the Village may post notice on the front door or in some other prominent
place on the property on which the code violation or nuisance occurred, and the
posting shall be deemed sufficient notice.
      5.   Continuances: No continuances shall be authorized by the Hearing
Officer except in cases in which a continuance is necessary to protect the
rights of the parties. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a
continuance.
   D.   Prima Facie Case, Evidence, And Standards Of Proof:
      1.   Prima Facie Case: A prima facie case may be established if the
violation notice served in compliance with the provisions of this chapter is
certified by the issuer. A violation notice shall be admissible in any
subsequent administrative or legal proceeding.
      2.   Rules Of Evidence: The formal and technical rules of evidence shall
not apply in the adjudicatory hearing process.
      3.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof to sustain a finding of
violation of Village ordinances shall be by a preponderance of the evidence.
   E.   Rights Of Property Occupants: It is a violation of this chapter for any
person to take action or threaten to take action for eviction, forcible entry
and detainer or similar proceeding or other adverse action against an occupant
of property solely because such occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a
Building Code and nuisance administrative adjudication hearing.
   F.   Defenses To Code Violations And Nuisances: It shall be a defense to an
owner of property for which a charge of a Building Code violation or nuisance
under this chapter is made if the owner of the property, his or her attorney,
or any other agent or representative proves to the Hearing Officer's
satisfaction that:
      1.   Violation Does Not Exist: The Building Code violation or nuisance
alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at the time of the hearing,
the violation or nuisance has been remedied or removed;
      2.   Violation Caused By Occupants: The Building Code violation or
nuisance alleged in the notice has been caused by the current property
occupants and that, in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain
the dwelling free of such violation or nuisance, the current occupants continue
to cause the violation or nuisances; or,
      3.   Owner Refused Entry: An occupant of the dwelling has refused entry
to the owner or his or her agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose
of correcting the Building Code violation or nuisance.
   G.   Findings, Decision, Order, And Penalty:
      1.   Hearing Officer Determination: At the conclusion of a hearing, the
Hearing Officer shall make a determination, on the basis of the relevant and
competent evidence presented at the hearing, whether or not a Building Code or
ordinance violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision, and order. The findings, decision, and order
shall include the Hearing Officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not
a Building Code violation or nuisance exists based upon the findings of fact,
and an order.
      2.   Determination Of Violation: If a Building Code violation or nuisance
is found, the order may impose a fine and costs and may direct the defendant to
correct the violation or abate the nuisance and/or impose such other sanctions
as may be appropriate as allowed by law consistent with Village ordinance; set
a date by which the violation must be brought into compliance, if applicable.
The order shall contain a statement of the penalties for late payment and that
any unpaid fines, costs, and penalty assessed is a debt due and owing to the
Village after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial procedures
for review. In the case in which a defendant fails to comply with a judgment
ordering the correction of a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of the code violation, the order shall provide that any
expense incurred by the Village to enforce the judgment, including, but not
limited to, attorney fees, costs, and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, shall be a debt due and owing to the Village and may be collected
in accordance with applicable law. If a violation or nuisance is not found, the
order shall include a statement to that effect and dismiss the case. A copy of
the findings, decision, and order shall be served on the owner within five (5)
days after issuance by first class mail.
      3.   Default Judgment: A notice of judgment entered by default shall be
forwarded to any person who fails to appear and shall contain the same
information as a determination of liability but shall also state that the
judgment may be set aside by the Hearing Officer if, within twenty one (21)
days of issuance of the judgement, a petition is received stating what the
Hearing Officer determines is good cause for failure to appear. The default
judgment shall state that it constitutes a final determination of liability if
such petition is not received, if the petition is denied, or after setting a
new hearing date the person fails to appear.
      4.   Penalties And Costs: The Hearing Officer shall not have the
authority to impose a penalty of incarceration or impose a fine in excess of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. When applicable, each
day a code provision is found to have been violated by the defendant shall
constitute a separate offense, and each separate offense subjects the defendant
to the fine and penalty provided by the governing fine or penalty provision.
Any fine assessed is exclusive of any costs imposed. In all cases where there
is a determination of liability by the Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer
shall impose administrative costs (i.e., court costs) in the amount of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) or greater.
      5.   Additional Penalties And Costs: In addition, and not withstanding
any fines and administrative costs, the Hearing Officer may order:
         a.   Costs incurred by the Village for effecting compliance with code
provision(s) for which a defendant has been found liable;
         b.   Compliance with the code provision(s) found to have been
violated;
         c.   Performance of a term of community service in lieu of fines.
   H.   Fees:
      1.   Fines And Fees Paid Within Twenty One Days: All fines and fees must
be paid within twenty one (21) days of issuance of the determination of
liability and the exhaustion or failure to exhaust any administrative remedy.
Failing to pay the total fines and costs within twenty one (21) days of the
issuance of the determination of liability and the exhaustion or the failure to
exhaust any administrative review procedures as set forth in this chapter shall
result in the imposition of a late penalty payment fee as follows:
         a.   Between Twenty Two And Forty Two Days: A late payment penalty fee
of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be imposed if the total fines and costs are
paid more than twenty one (21) days following the issuance of the determination
of liability but within forty two (42) days following the issuance of the
determination of liability.
         b.   Between Forty Three And Sixty Three Days: A late payment penalty
in the amount of seventy five dollars ($75.00) shall be imposed if the total
fines and costs are paid more than forty two (42) days following the issuance
of the determination of liability but within sixty three (63) days following
the issuance of the determination of liability.
         c.   After Sixty Three Days: A late payment penalty fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be imposed if the total fines and costs are paid more
than sixty three (63) days following the issuance of the determination of
liability.
   I.   Judicial Review:
      1.   Final Determination: Any final decision by a Hearing Officer that a
Building Code violation or nuisance does or does not exist shall constitute a
final determination for purposes of judicial review and shall be subject to
review under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, as amended.
      2.   Expiration Of Judicial Review Period: After the expiration of the
period within which judicial review under Administrative Review Law may be
sought for final determination of a Building Code or nuisance violation, the
Village may commence a proceeding in the Circuit Court of the Eighteenth
Judicial Circuit, DuPage County, Illinois, for the purpose of obtaining a
judgment on the findings, decision, and order. Nothing in this chapter shall
prevent the Village from the consolidation of multiple findings, decisions, and
orders against a person in such a proceeding.
      3.   Subsequent Proceedings: Issues such as whether a Building Code or
nuisance violation occurred and the penalties that are imposed may not be
raised in any enforcement proceeding after the period for judicial review has
passed.
   J.   Enforcement Of Administrative Orders:
      1.   Debt Due And Owing: Any fine, costs or other sanction imposed that
remains unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust judicial
review procedures under the Illinois Administrative Review Law, shall be
considered a debt due and owing to the Village and enforced in the same manner
as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction and may be collected
in accordance with applicable law.
      2.   Sanctions Applicable To Owner: An order to correct a Building Code
violation or abate a nuisance and the fine or other sanctions imposed by the
Village as a result of a finding of a code violation or nuisance under this
chapter shall attach to the property as well as the owner of the property, so
that a finding of code violation against one owner cannot be avoided by
conveying or transferring the property to another owner. Any subsequent
transferee or owner of property takes subject to the findings, decision, and
order of a Hearing Officer under this chapter.
   K.   Vacant Residential Real Estate: A person who contracts with the Federal
government or any of its agencies, including, without limitation, the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, to care for vacant real estate
shall be responsible for maintaining the property to prevent and correct
Village Health and Safety Code violations.
   L.   Other Methods Of Code And Ordinance Enforcement:
      1.   Validity Of Other Systems: This chapter shall not affect the
validity of system of administrative adjudications that were authorized by
State law, including the Village of Wayne ordinances.
      2.   Contempt: Any person, having received notice and opportunity for a
hearing as provided in this chapter, who knowingly fails to comply with an
order issued by the Hearing Officer under this chapter, including the issuance
of a subpoena, shall, if the order is not stayed by the court of competent
jurisdiction prior to its effective date, be guilty of contempt. Each day that
a violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. It
shall not be a defense that a person came into compliance with an order, sought
judicial review of it, or made efforts to comply with an order, subsequent to
its effective date.
      3.   Additional Expenses In Enforcement: Any expense incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney's
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a Hearing Officer,
shall be a debt due and owing to the Village and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. However, prior to any expenses being fixed by a Hearing
Officer, the Village shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the
defendant shall appear at a hearing before the Administrative Hearing Officer
to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The
notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than
seven (7) days from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by
mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to run on the date notice was
deposited in the mail.
   M.   Collections Of Fines And Costs: All fines and other monies to be paid
to the Village in accordance with this chapter shall be remitted to the Village
and deposited in the appropriate Village account as designated by the Village
Administrator, or his designee. (Ord. 19-12, 8-6-2019)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Village President And Board Of Trustees
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Numbering System For Ordinances And Resolutions
1-5-4: General (Mad) Anthony Wayne Holiday
1-5-1: VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Election: The elected officials of the village shall be the village
president and six (6) village trustees, who are elected and who shall hold
office pursuant to Illinois Compiled Statutes 1 .
   B.   Compensation: The president and village board members shall serve
without compensation, but will be reimbursed for all expenses incurred as a
result of their office. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5.
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Schedules Established: The village president and board of
trustees will establish a meeting schedule for the next calendar year not later
than the second board meeting in December prior to the start of the new year.
All meetings shall be held at the Wayne Village Hall, 5N430 Railroad Street,
Wayne, Illinois, unless otherwise ordered by the public entity. The village
clerk shall post the notice of all meetings at the village hall, and shall
supply a copy of the notice to those news media who have filed an annual
request for notice, pursuant to the open meetings act 1 .
   B.   Village President And Board Of Trustees: The regular meetings of the
president and board of trustees of the village shall be held on the first and
third Tuesday of each month. All meetings shall commence at seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) P.M. unless otherwise ordered by resolution at any regular
meeting of the president and board of trustees. The dates of said regular
meetings shall be set forth in the annual meeting schedule.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the president and board of
trustees may be held at any time on call for the same by the president or any
three (3) or more trustees. Such call shall be in writing, duly signed, and
shall be presented to the village clerk who shall proceed immediately to
prepare written notices of the same and shall cause them to be served upon the
president and members of the board of trustees at least forty eight (48) hours
before the time of meeting, unless such meeting is an emergency meeting, in
which case, notice shall be given as soon as practicable. Such notices shall
describe in brief the nature or objects of the call. At every special meeting,
the call for the same shall be read and afterwards filed by the village clerk.
No business other than that proposed by the call of the meeting shall be in
order at such meeting. (Ord. 98-24, 12-15-1998)
   D.   Village Board Committees: The dates of the regular meetings shall be
set forth in the annual meeting schedule. Meetings may also be held pursuant to
call of the chair of any of said committees in accordance with the provisions
of the open meetings act 2 . (Ord. 98-24, 12-15-1998; amd. Ord. 02-14, 8-20-
2002)
   E.   Commissions And Boards:
      1.   Plan Commission 3 : The regular meetings of the plan commission
shall be held on the first Monday of each month unless otherwise provided by
the annual meeting schedule or by the commission. All meetings shall commence
at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., unless otherwise ordered by the
commission. The dates of the regular meetings shall be set forth in the annual
meeting schedule.
      2.   Private Roads And Drainage Commission 4 : The annual meeting of the
private roads and drainage commission shall be held on the second Monday in
January at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. All other meetings are subject to
call by the Chair of the commission. The date of said annual meeting shall be
set forth in the annual meeting schedule.
      3.   Historic Sites Commission 5 : The regular meetings of the Historic
Sites Commission shall be held on the last Monday of each month at seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) P.M., unless otherwise ordered by the commission. The dates of
the regular meetings shall be set forth in the annual meeting schedule. (Ord.
98-24, 12-15-1998)
      4.   Park Commission 6 : The regular meeting of the Park Commission shall
be on the second Wednesday of the month at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., unless
otherwise ordered by the commission. The dates of the regular meetings shall be
set forth in the annual meeting schedule. (Ord. 18-22, 11-6-2018)
      5.   Zoning Board Of Appeals 7 : The regular meetings of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be as set forth in the annual meeting schedule or at the call
of the Chair. (Ord. 02-14, 8-20-2002)
   F.   Cancellation Procedures: The Chair of each committee, board or
commission shall endeavor to inform the Village Clerk of any cancellation of
any scheduled meeting at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the scheduled
meeting time. The Village Clerk shall thereupon inform those news media which
have filed an annual request for notice, as provided in the Open Meetings Act 8
, of such cancellation and post a notice of such cancellation at the Village
Hall.
   G.   Rescheduled Meetings: The Chair of each committee, board or commission
shall inform the Village Clerk of any rescheduled meeting at least twenty four
(24) hours prior to the scheduled meeting time. The Village Clerk shall
thereupon inform those news media which have filed an annual request for
notice, as provided in the Open Meetings Act 9  and post a notice of such
rescheduled meeting at the Village Hall. (Ord. 98-24, 12-15-1998)
   H.   Electronic Meetings: The Board of Trustees may provide for the conduct
of its meetings or meetings of committees thereof via electronic means,
provided no meetings shall be held via such means until the Board shall have
first promulgated rules therefor. Such rules, as amended from time to time,
shall be approved by motion. (Ord. 03-21, 8-5-2003)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 120/2.02.
2 1. 5 ILCS 120/1.01 et seq.
3 2. See section
  2-2-3 of this code.
4 3. See section
  2-6-2 of this code.
5 4. See section
  9-1-3 of this Code.
6 5. See section
  2-5-2 of this Code.
7 6. See section
  2-3-3 of this Code.
8 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.02.
9 2. 5 ILCS 120/2.02.
1-5-3: NUMBERING SYSTEM FOR ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Ordinances: All ordinances adopted by the Corporate Authorities of the
Village shall be numbered sequentially. The number given to each ordinance
shall contain the last two (2) digits of the year of adoption followed by a
hyphen and the number of the ordinance in sequence for that calendar year
beginning with the number one. All such ordinances shall thereafter be referred
to as, e.g., "ordinance 89-01" et seq.
   B.   Resolutions: All resolutions adopted by the Corporate Authorities of
the Village shall be numbered sequentially. The number given to each resolution
shall contain the last two (2) digits of the year of adoption followed by a
hyphen, the letter "R", another hyphen and the number of the resolution in
sequence for that calendar year beginning with the number one. All such
resolutions shall thereafter be referred to as, e.g., "resolution 89-R-01" et
seq. (Ord. 89-05, 4-4-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
1-5-4: GENERAL (MAD) ANTHONY WAYNE HOLIDAY:
On each January 1, the birthday of Major General (Mad) Anthony Wayne shall be
observed as a legal holiday throughout the Village. No public business (except
for emergency matters) shall be transacted on the anniversary of General
Wayne's birthday, and the Village Hall shall be closed on each January 1, in
remembrance of General Wayne.
The President of the Board of Trustees is herewith authorized and directed to
issue a proclamation each December proclaiming the January 1, next succeeding
as a public holiday in memory of the birthday of Major General (Mad) Anthony
Wayne, urging all citizens of the Village to gather with their family and
friends on the eve of General Wayne's birthday and at the hour of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31/January 1, to celebrate by appropriate
ceremonies the anniversary of the birthday of this great soldier and statesman.
The President shall by such proclamation provide for such other festivities or
celebrations in connection with said holiday as shall seem appropriate. (Ord.
89-48, 12-19-1989)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND OTHER VILLAGE POSITIONS
SECTION:
1-6-1: General Provisions
1-6-2: Appointed Officers
1-6-3: Other Positions
1-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Officers Generally:
      1.   Compensation: Except as otherwise provided in this code,
compensation for elected and appointed officers shall be as fixed by ordinance.
Salaries shall not be increased or diminished so as to take effect during the
term of any officer holding an elective office and shall be fixed at least one
hundred eighty (180) days before the beginning of the term of officers whose
compensation is to be fixed. The salaries, fees, or other compensation of any
appointed officer, not including those appointed to fill vacancies in elective
offices, may be increased but not diminished during the term for which the
officer was appointed. No additional compensation shall be paid for performing
the duties of office, but officers shall be entitled to reimbursement for
expenses lawfully and validly incurred in the discharge of their duties.
      2.   Oath: Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
all elected and appointed officers shall take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation required by the Illinois constitution, which oath or affirmation
shall thereafter be filed in the office of the village clerk.
      3.   Bonds: Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
the village president, village clerk, village treasurer, and village attorney
shall execute a bond with security, to be approved by the corporate
authorities. The bond shall be payable to the village in the penal sum set
forth herein, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the
office and the payment of all money received by the officer, according to law
and village ordinances. The bond may provide that the obligation of the
sureties shall not extend to any loss sustained by the insolvency, failure, or
closing of a bank or savings and loan association organized and operating
either under the laws of the state or the United States in which the officer
has placed funds in the officer's custody, if the bank or savings and loan
association has been approved by the corporate authorities as a depository for
those funds. Bonds shall be filed with the village clerk, except the bond of
the village clerk, which shall be filed with the village treasurer. The penal
sum of the bonds of the aforesaid officers shall be ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), or in the case of the village treasurer an amount not less than
three (3) times the latest federal census population or any subsequent census
figure used for motor fuel tax purposes, whichever is greater. (Ord. 99-07, 3-
16-1999)
   B.   Elected Officers: The terms of all elected officers of the village
shall begin at the first regular meeting in May following the proclamation of
the results of the election at which the office is filled. (Ord. 11-05, 5-17-
2011)
   C.   Appointed Officers:
      1.   Appointments: All appointed officers of the village shall be
appointed by the president, subject to the advice and consent of the village
board.
      2.   Residency: Except for village engineers, the village attorney or
other officers who require technical training or knowledge, and the village
treasurer, all appointed officers shall be qualified electors in the village.
      3.   Term: Except as otherwise provided in this code, all village
officers appointed by the village president shall serve for a term of one year,
commencing May 1 and ending April 30 of the following year; provided that such
village officers shall serve until their successor has been appointed and has
qualified, unless sooner disqualified by law.
      4.   Vacancies: Vacancies in all appointed village offices may be filled
in the same manner as appointments are made pursuant to subsection C1 of this
section.
      5.   Reports: Appointed officers shall report to the village president or
such other officer or committee as the village board may, by ordinance, or
written request provide. From time to time, the village president, village
board, or other officer may request, and the appointed officer shall provide, a
written report of the status of certain work or projects performed by such
appointed officer.
   D.   Other Positions:
      1.   Selection: Selections of persons to hold other positions, as
designated in Section
1-6-3 of this Chapter, shall be made by the Village President with the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees. Persons selected for such positions shall
serve at the discretion of the corporate authorities.
      2.   Residency: Persons selected for other positions, as designated in
Section
1-6-3 of this Chapter, shall not be required to be residents of the Village.
      3.   Compensation: Except as otherwise provided herein, persons selected
for other positions, as designated in Section
1-6-3 of this Chapter, shall be compensated in accordance with the Village's
annual appropriation ordinance, or pursuant to an agreement between such person
and the corporate authorities for compensation as an independent contractor.
      4.   Reports: Persons selected for other positions, as designated in
Section
1-6-3 of this Chapter, shall report to the Village President, or such other
officer or committee as the Village Board may, by ordinance, provide. From time
to time, the Village President or other officer may request and the person
selected shall provide a written report of the status of certain work or
projects performed by such person. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999)
1-6-2: APPOINTED OFFICERS:
   A.   Village Clerk:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of Village
Clerk, in accordance with the provisions of section 3.1-25-90 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
      2.   Compensation: The Village Clerk shall be compensated on an hourly
basis as fixed by ordinance, for time actually spent by the Village Clerk in
the performance of the Clerk's official duties. The Village Clerk shall report
to the Village President by the end of the first business day of each month
worked for which pay is claimed under this subsection. A copy of such report
shall also be retained in the records of the Village Clerk.
      3.   Duties: The duties of the Village Clerk shall be as set forth in
section 3.1-35-90 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
      4.   Deputy Village Clerk: The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to
appoint one deputy clerk, subject to the approval of the Village Board. The
deputy clerk shall have the powers and duties specified in section 3.1-35-95 of
the Illinois Municipal Code, and shall serve for such term within the term of
office of the Clerk as the Clerk shall determine. Such deputy clerk need not be
a resident of the Village.
   B.   Village Treasurer:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of Village
Treasurer in accordance with the provisions of section 3.1-30-5 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
      2.   Duties: The duties of the Village Treasurer shall be as set forth in
sections 3.1-35-40, 3.1-35-45, 3.1-35-50, 3.1-35-60, 3.1-35-65, 3.1-35-70, and
3.1-35-85 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   C.   Village Collector:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of Village
Collector in accordance with the provisions of section 3.1-30-5 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
      2.   Duties: The duties of the Village Collector shall be as set forth in
sections 3.1-35-120 and 3.1-35-125 of this Illinois Municipal Code.
      3.   Village Clerk As Collector: Pursuant to section 3.1-35-135 of the
Illinois Municipal Code, the appointed Village Clerk shall hold the office of
Village Collector for the same term and with the same bond required in
connection with such office as is provided for the Village Clerk.
      4.   Compensation: The Village Clerk shall not be entitled to any
compensation as Village Collector other than that which is prescribed by
ordinance for the office of Village Clerk; however, the Village Collector shall
be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with the performance
of the official duties of such office.
   D.   Village Attorney:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of village
attorney in accordance with the provisions of section 3.1-30-5 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
      2.   Term: The village attorney shall serve for the term of the village
president or until a successor is appointed and has qualified.
      3.   Duties:
         a.   Suits, Actions And Judgments: The village attorney shall
prosecute and defend any and all suits or actions at law or in equity to which
the village may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which may be
brought against, or by, an officer of the village on behalf of the village, or
in the capacity of such person as an officer of the village, and shall see to
the full enforcement of all judgments, decrees or awards rendered in favor of
the village.
         b.   Advice: The village attorney shall be legal advisor for the
village, and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village,
whenever requested to do so by the village president, village clerk, village
treasurer or the board of trustees. Upon specific request by any of the
foregoing officers, such opinions shall be reduced to writing.
The chairman of any committee or a majority of such committee of the board of
trustees may request an answer to a specific question, and the village attorney
shall prepare a written or oral answer to such question to be rendered to the
committee.
The chairman of any board or commission, or a majority of such board or
commission, may request a written or oral opinion from the village attorney,
and the village attorney shall prepare a written or oral opinion in response to
such a request.
         c.   Additional Counsel: The village attorney may employ additional
counsel to aid the village in its affairs whenever the village attorney deems
it to be necessary or expedient.
         d.   Ordinances And Documents: The village attorney shall draft or
supervise the drafting of all contracts, leases, or other documents or
instruments to which the village may be a party, and shall draft all ordinances
covering any subjects in which the village has an interest, as required.
      4.   Compensation: The village attorney shall be compensated in
accordance with an agreement made from time to time between such attorney and
the corporate authorities.
   E.   Zoning Enforcement Officer:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of zoning
enforcement officer and one or more deputy zoning enforcement officers for the
village.
      2.   Duties: The zoning enforcement officer and any deputy zoning
enforcement officers shall have all duties as may be prescribed by state law
and the ordinances of the village, as amended from time to time, including such
duties as are set forth in section
10-4-2 of this code. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999)
   F.   Director Of Building And Zoning:
      1.   Office Established: There is hereby created the office of director
of building and zoning for the village.
      2.   Duties: The director of building and zoning shall perform such
duties as may be prescribed by state law and the ordinances of the village, as
amended from time to time, including the duty to enforce all building codes,
ordinances and regulations of the village.
      3.   Director Of Building And Zoning As Zoning Enforcement Officer: The
director of building and zoning may also hold the position of zoning
enforcement officer if the corporate authorities so determine. (Ord. 99-07, 3-
16-1999; amd. Ord. 00-19, 9-5-2000)
1-6-3: OTHER POSITIONS:
   A.   Solid Waste Coordinator:
      1.   Position Established: There is hereby created the position of solid
waste coordinator for the village.
      2.   Duties: The solid waste coordinator shall oversee the management of
the village recycling programs; act as liaison to other units of government
relative to solid waste recycling, management, regulation, or related areas;
prepare any reports required by ordinance or intergovernmental agreement
relating to solid waste recycling within the village for transmittal by the
village clerk or any other officer charged with final responsibility for such
reports; and assist the village president with respect to other relevant
projects which the president may deem appropriate to assign to the solid waste
coordinator.
      3.   Compensation: The solid waste coordinator shall serve without
compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in conjunction
with the performance of the coordinator's duties.
      4.   Access To Village Services, Facilities And Personnel: The solid
waste coordinator shall be entitled to access to the village hall and to all
services, facilities and personnel of the village necessary to the performance
of the duties of the position, as determined by the village president.
   B.   Coordinator Of Special Projects:
      1.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of
coordinator of special projects in the village.
      2.   Duties: The coordinator of special projects shall have the
responsibility for such specific projects as the village president or the board
of trustees shall, from time to time, assign and which the coordinator agrees
to undertake.
      3.   Compensation: The coordinator of special projects shall serve
without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in
conjunction with the performance of the coordinator's duties.
      4.   Access To Village Services, Facilities And Personnel: The
coordinator of special projects shall be entitled to access to the village hall
and to all services, facilities and personnel of the village necessary to the
performance of the duties of the position, as determined by the village
president.
   C.   Special Assistant To The Village President:
      1.   Position Created: There are hereby created positions of special
assistant to the village president, not to exceed three (3) special assistants
at any one time.
      2.   Duties: Special assistants to the village president shall have such
responsibilities for specific projects as the village president or the board of
trustees may, from time to time, assign to them and which they agree to
undertake. Such assignments may include assignments or projects to be carried
on under the direction of the coordinator of special projects.
      3.   Compensation: Each special assistant to the village president shall
serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred
in conjunction with the performance of such assistant's duties.
      4.   Access To Village Services, Facilities And Personnel: Each special
assistant to the village president shall be entitled to access to the village
hall and to all services, facilities and personnel of the village necessary to
the performance of the duties of the position, as determined by the village
president. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Deposit Of Village Funds
1-7-2: Reimbursement Of Certain Village Expenses And Professional Fees
1-7-3: Convenience Fee For Credit Or Debit Card Payments
1-7-4: Surplus Property
1-7-1: DEPOSIT OF VILLAGE FUNDS:
   A.   Place Of Deposit: The funds and money of the village shall be kept on
deposit in a United States government insured financial institution as
determined from time to time by the corporate authorities. There shall be one
account maintained in such financial institution for all village funds, except
as otherwise required by the statutes of the state of Illinois.
   B.   Signatures On Accounts: Authorized signers on the account or accounts
of the village shall be designated by resolution of the president and board of
trustees, copies of which shall be furnished the bank.
   C.   Bank Guarantees: Before deposits are made by the village, the bank
shall furnish the village treasurer with copies of its last two (2) sworn
statements of resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish the
director of financial institutions or to the comptroller of the currency. The
bank or other financial institution shall, thereafter and while acting as a
depository for the village, furnish the village treasurer with a copy of all
statements of resources and liabilities which it is required to furnish the
director of financial institutions or to the comptroller of the currency. (Ord.
60-04, 5-2-1960; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Purchasing Authority: The village president and chairs of standing
committees of the board of trustees, as from time to time appointed by the
village president, shall have the authority to make, in the ordinary course of
business, purchases of materials, supplies and services necessary for the
departments, commissions or offices of the village for which they are
responsible, as such expenditures are provided for in the annual appropriation
ordinance, provided the cost of each such purchase does not exceed the sum of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). Reports of all such purchases shall be made
to the board of trustees not later than the second regular meeting following
the date of such purchase or purchases. For all purchases over five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), the approval of the board of trustees shall first be
required. (Ord. 04-02, 2-17-2004; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
1-7-2: REIMBURSEMENT OF CERTAIN VILLAGE EXPENSES AND PROFESSIONAL FEES:
Any person who seeks, or is required to seek, village review and approval of
any plans, plats, permits or legal documents, including, but not limited to,
easements or licenses for private benefit, agreements with the village for
special rights or services, a certificate of appropriateness from the historic
sites commission, or similar matters requiring village review and approval,
shall, in addition to any applicable permit fees, be required to reimburse the
village for certain expenses and professional fees it may incur related to such
review and approval, including, but not limited to, outside professional
engineers, attorneys or other consultants. A deposit in the amount of the
estimated expenses and fees to be incurred may be required. Expenses and fees
actually incurred by the village shall be deducted from such deposit. If such
deposit is exhausted, no further services shall be performed, nor shall any
permit, certificate, license or approval be granted, as the case might be,
until an additional deposit is made. The amount of such additional deposit
shall be as reasonably determined by the board of trustees or its designee.
(Ord. 15-07, 7-21-2015)
1-7-3: CONVENIENCE FEE FOR CREDIT OR DEBIT CARD PAYMENTS:
The village is authorized to establish and collect a convenience fee that shall
be applied to the total payment charged to each credit or debit card
transaction. The convenience fee shall be in addition to the total amount of
the original fee, fine, or bill owed to the village, plus any applicable
interest, penalty, or late charge. Effective January 1, 2017, the convenience
fee shall equal the cost actually incurred by the village for processing the
credit or debit card payment, not to exceed five dollars ($5.00). (Ord. 16-16,
12-20-2016)
1-7-4: SURPLUS PROPERTY:
   A.   That pursuant to 65 ILCS 11-76-4 the Village hereby establishes the
following process for the declaration of surplus property in the Village (which
may include equipment previously purchased by the Village, property donated by
third parties and lost or abandoned property acquired by the Village in
accordance with Illinois Law).
   B.   Each year the Village Board, through the Budget approval process, shall
identify any such categories of property or equipment it deems appropriate for
sale (whether due to age, functionality, lack of need for said equipment, no
longer necessary or useful to the Village, etc) for that budget year.
   C.   The Board hereby delegates to the Chief of Police (pursuant to 65 ILCS
5/11-76-4(2) the power to determine the specific property or equipment that is
appropriate for sale (whether due to age, functionality, lack of need for said
equipment, no longer necessary or useful to the Village, etc) for that budget
year up to an estimated value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of property
or equipment per year. The fact that a particular piece of property sells for
more or less than the estimate of the Chief of Police shall not affect the
cumulative amount authorized per year under this ordinance.
   D.   The Chief of Police shall provide a list of equipment to the Village
Board through a memo at least seven (7) days prior to offering for sale. Should
any board member notify the Board President of an objection to a particular
piece of property or equipment, that particular piece of equipment shall be
removed from the offering, and, if the Chief of Police desires to do so, may be
brought before the Board for a separate determination. The Chief of Police
shall sell such equipment in such manner as he may designate, with or without
advertising the sale, specifically including the use of the websites including,
but not limited to, ebay.com. The Chief of Police is further authorized to
execute any necessary agreements and documentation to utilize websites and
other sale forums.
   E.   However, no vehicle (except vehicles sold as part of an Illinois State
authorized process) shall be turned in as part of the purchase price on any
purchase except upon receipt of competitive bids, after notice is published
once in a newspaper of general circulation to all bidders that the article will
be turned over as part of the purchase price. (Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
CHAPTER 8
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Department Created
1-8-2: Special Conditions Of Employment
1-8-3: Powers And Duties
1-8-4: Departmental Rules And Regulations
1-8-5: Special Police
1-8-6: Appendix I, Rules And Regulations
1-8-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a police department, an executive department of the
village. The police department shall consist of a chief of police and such
other members as may be provided for from time to time by the village president
and board of trustees. (Ord. 60-12, 11-17-1960; amd. 1998 Code)
The chief of police shall be appointed annually, and all other police officers
and assistants shall be appointed by the village president and board of
trustees for an indefinite period of time. The president and board of trustees
have the power to dismiss or terminate the services of all police officers and
assistants. (Ord. 60-12, 11-17-1960; amd. Ord. 93-05, 3-2-1993; 1998 Code)
1-8-2: SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Residency Requirements: All persons appointed to any position as an
officer in the police department, including, but not limited to, the chief of
police, deputy chief of police, commander, the lieutenant of police, sergeants,
patrol officers, part time officers and officers holding such other rank as the
village may from time to time prescribe, are hereby authorized and permitted to
reside outside of the corporate limits of the village both at the time of
appointment and while serving as a member of the Wayne police department in
either a full time or part time capacity.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect or impair the service,
status, tenure, pay, seniority or benefits of any person now serving as a
member of the Wayne police department as of March 2, 1993.
   B.   Probationary Periods:
      1.   All persons initially appointed as police officers in and for the
village shall serve a probationary period of at least eighteen (18) months. The
village president and board of trustees may, upon the written recommendation of
the chief of police, extend the probationary period of any police officer for
an additional six (6) months upon written notice to the officer not less than
sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of the initial eighteen (18) month
probationary period.
      2.   Nothing herein shall be construed to establish any rights to a
hearing in connection with any status as a probationary police officer, or to
alter the status of any police officers as "at will" employees pursuant to the
rules and regulations for the police department adopted in section
1-8-4 of this chapter and set forth in section
1-8-6 of this chapter. Nor shall any provision of this subsection be construed
to extend to or affect any person presently serving as a police officer of the
village.
      3.   This subsection shall supersede and repeal any inconsistent
provision contained in any rules or regulations relating to the police
department and an inconsistent provision in any other village ordinance or
regulation relating to the terms and conditions of employment of village
employees, including, but not limited to, the provisions of section
1-10-1, "Employee Compensation And Administrative Program", of this title,
insofar as such provisions may have affected police officers of the village.
   C.   Standards For Part Time Police Officers: The village hereby adopts the
following standards for the employment, duties, training, hiring and discipline
of part time police officers employed by the village:
      1.   Employment: The village may employ part time police officers from
time to time as it deems necessary, and such part time police officers shall be
regular members of the village police department, except for pension and other
benefit purposes, as heretofore provided by ordinance or resolution. Part time
police officers shall not be used as permanent replacements for permanent full
time police officers.
      2.   Duties: A part time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full time police officer and such specific duties as are
delineated in the rules and regulations of the village police department;
provided that the number of hours a part time officer may work within a
calendar year shall be restricted. Part time police officers shall not be
assigned to supervise or direct full time police officers.
      3.   Training: Part time police officers shall be trained and certified
in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois police training act 1  and
the rules and regulations adopted by the Illinois law enforcement training and
standards board pursuant thereto, including mandatory firearms certification
training prior to carrying a firearm or be entitled to receive a waiver of such
training from the Illinois law enforcement training and standards board.
      4.   Hiring Standards: Any person hired as a part time police officer by
the village must meet the following minimum standards; provided that reasonable
accommodation shall be granted where appropriate or required by applicable law
for persons with disabilities:
         a.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
         b.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age;
         c.   Pass a medical and psychological examination;
         d.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate; provided that
preference will be given to individuals with added college or professional
training;
         e.   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license without any
restrictions related to the ability to drive during any portions of a twenty
four (24) hour day;
         f.   Have no prior felony convictions; and
         g.   Have been honorably discharged from the U.S. military if the
individual has served in the military.
      5.   Discipline: Part time police officers for the village shall be under
the disciplinary jurisdiction of the chief of police. Part time police officers
shall serve at the discretion of the corporate authorities, shall not have any
property rights in their employment, and may be removed by such corporate
authorities at any time. Part time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and regulations of the village police department and with all
applicable ordinances and regulations pertaining to probationary periods for
police officers. (Ord. 93-05, 3-2-1993; amd. Ord. 95-02, 2-21-1995; Ord. 13-01,
2-5-2013; Ord. 21-03, 2-16-2021; Ord. 23-09, 7-5-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
1-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to see to the
enforcement of all ordinances of the village, of all statutes effective in the
village, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and to arrest
violators thereof. Every member of the police department is hereby declared to
be a conservator of the peace. In addition, police officers will be subject to
the following:
   A.   Custody Of Stolen Property: The police department shall be the
custodian of all lost, abandoned or stolen property in the village.
   B.   Serving Processes: Police officers shall be authorized to serve writs,
summons, and other processes authorized by a court of competent jurisdiction or
the village president or board of trustees.
   C.   Conduct Of Members: It shall be the duty of every member of the police
department to conduct himself in a proper and law abiding manner, and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force. (Ord. 60-12, 11-17-1960; amd. 1998 Code)
1-8-4: DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations Adopted: The rules and regulations for the
village police department, set forth in section
1-8-6 of this chapter, are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for the
Wayne police department.
   B.   Additional Policies: The chief of police of the village is hereby
authorized to promulgate and issue such additional policies, procedures or
general or special orders not inconsistent with the rules and regulations
adopted herein.
   C.   Severability: If any provision of this section or the rules and
regulations adopted herein is held invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such declaration or finding of invalidity shall not extend to any
portion of this Section, or the rules and regulations, as can be given effect
without such invalid provision, and to that end the provisions of this Section
and the rules and regulations are severable.
   D.   Furnish Copy To Officers: The Police Department shall furnish a copy of
the rules and regulations adopted in subsection A of this Section and set forth
in Section
1-8-6 of this Chapter, as well as a copy of Ordinance 93-05, being subsection
1-8-2A of this Chapter, relating to residency requirements, to all full-time
and part-time personnel of the Police Department, and shall require written
acknowledgement of receipt. Failure to acknowledge receipt by any member or
employee of the Police Department shall constitute additional cause for
discipline as provided in the rules and regulations. (Ord. 93-20, 9-21-1993)
1-8-5: SPECIAL POLICE:
The Village President, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, may appoint
any reputable person as a special police officer to serve for such term and on
such conditions as may be designated by the terms of appointment. Special
police officers shall have the powers and duties of a conservator of the peace
and shall receive no compensation from the Village, unless such compensation is
ordered by the Board of Trustees. Appointments may be revoked at any time by
the President or the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 60-12, 11-17-1960)
1-8-6: APPENDIX I, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   APPENDIX I
   RULES AND REGULATIONS
   VILLAGE OF WAYNE POLICE DEPARTMENT
1.1: FUNCTIONS OF THE DEPARTMENT:
1.1.1: General:
The prime function of the Police Department of the Village of Wayne and the
reason for its existence is the enforcement of the laws of the State of
Illinois and the Village of Wayne in conformity with the Constitutions of the
United States of America and the State of Illinois.
1.1.2: Specific:
To this end, the Department shall:
1.   Preserve the public peace, prevent crime, detect and arrest offenders
against the criminal laws and ordinances effective within the Village, suppress
riots, mobs and insurrections, disperse unlawful or dangerous assemblages,
protect the rights of all and preserve order at all elections and assemblages;
2.   Administer and enforce laws and ordinances to regulate, direct, control
and facilitate the movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and the use of
streets by vehicles and persons, and to adhere to rules and regulations which
shall facilitate the lawful goals of the Department;
3.   Remove all nuisances in public places, inspect and observe all places of
public amusement or assemblage and all places of business within the Village
limits which require any State, County or Village permit/license;
4.   Provide proper police response to calls for police service;
5.   Provide for the attendance of police officers or civilian employees in
court as necessary for the prosecution and trial of persons charged with crimes
and other violations of the law, and cooperate fully with the law enforcement
and prosecuting authorities of Federal, State, County and municipal
governments;
6.   Attain and retain maximum efficiency and effectiveness by policies and
procedures designed to protect and serve the Village and to satisfy the
aforestated goals.
1.2: IMPORTANCE OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
To achieve true success, the Department must attain and retain the confidence
and respect of the community it serves. This can be accomplished only by
constant and earnest endeavor on the part of all of its members to perform
their duties in an efficient, honest and professional manner, and by exemplary
conduct at all times, both on and off duty, which shall foster and enhance, in
the public mind, the fullest realization that the Police Department is an
important requisite to the well-being of the community.
In order to perform their duties properly, it is essential that the membership
of the Department familiarize themselves with the Law Enforcement Code of
Ethics as well as the following rules and regulations pertaining to the
membership of the Police Department of the Village:
1.3: LAW ENFORCEMENT CODE OF ETHICS:
As a law enforcement officer, my fundamental duty is to serve the public; to
safeguard lives and property; to protect the innocent against deception, the
weak against oppression or intimidation, and the peaceful against violence or
disorder; and to respect the Constitutional rights of all people to liberty,
equality and justice.
I will keep my private life unsullied as an example to all; maintain courageous
calm in the face of danger, scorn or ridicule; develop self-restraint; and be
constantly mindful of the welfare of others. Honest in thought and deed in both
my personal and official life, I will be exemplary in obeying the laws of the
land and the regulations of my Department. Whatever I see or hear of a
confidential nature or that is confided to me in my official capacity will be
kept ever secret unless revelation is necessary in the performance of my duty.
I will never act officiously or permit personal feelings, prejudices,
animosities or friendships to influence my decisions. With no compromise for
crime and with relentless prosecution of criminals, I will enforce the law
courteously and appropriately without fear or favor, malice or ill will, never
employing unnecessary force or violence and never accepting gratuities or
gifts.
I recognize the badge of my office as a symbol of public faith, and I accept it
as a public trust to be held so long as I am true to the ethics of the police
service. I will constantly strive to achieve these objectives and ideals,
dedicating myself to my chosen profession -- law enforcement.
1.4: DEPARTMENT STRUCTURE:
1.4.1: Department Head:
The general management, administration, supervision and control of the Police
Department is vested in the Chief of Police, who shall be directly answerable
to the then acting Village Trustee that heads the Public Safety Committee and
the then acting Village President for the government efficiency, effectiveness
and the general good conduct of the Department and its membership.
1.4.2: Organization Of The Department:
The Police Department of the Village of Wayne shall consist of one Chief of
Police, and such Lieutenants, Sergeants, patrol officers, secretary-clerks,
reserves, and other employees as may be approved by the legislative body of the
Village from time to time.
1.4.3: Unit Responsibilities:
1.4.3.1: Office Of The Chief Of Police
The Chief of Police is responsible for the management, administration and
general supervision of the personnel, equipment, facilities and operations of
the Department. He shall be accountable to the office of the Village President.
1.4.3.2: Field Services:
Field Services is responsible for the following functions:
1.   Preventive patrol services.
2.   Protection of life and property, preservation of the peace, enforcement of
law and suppression of crime.
3.   Conduct preliminary investigations.
4.   Traffic law enforcement, traffic control and accident investigation.
5.   Operation, control and supervision of reserves.
6.   Such assignments/reassignments as may be placed under Field Services from
time to time by the Chief of Police.
7.   Establishing and maintaining a professional relationship between the
Department, the prosecution and the courts.
1.4.3.3: Support Services:
Support Services is responsible for the following functions:
1.   Processing, indexing and filing of all reports and case files, and for
miscellaneous record services to the public and the Department, including
medical insurance and personnel files.
2.   Maintaining proper records and control of lost or recovered property or
evidence of criminal activity.
3.   Developing and coordination of a truly effective Department training
program.
4.   Performing the planning and research needs of the Department.
5.   Developing and maintaining proper fiscal controls within the Department.
6.   Providing such inspectional services as may be required by the Chief of
Police.
7.   Establishing and maintaining proper standards and procedures within the
incarceration areas of the Department.
8.   Such assignments and reassignments as may be placed under Support Services
from time to time by the Chief of Police.
1.4.4: Authority:
1.4.4.1: Chain Of Command:
During the temporary absence or unavailability of the Chief of Police, when no
other provision is made by the Chief of Police, the command shall descend in
the following order:
   Deputy Chief of Police
   Commander
   Lieutenant
   Sergeant
   Senior officer on duty
During the temporary absence or unavailability of the Chief of Police, the
Deputy Chief of Police, or Commander, when no other provision is made by the
Chief of Police, the Deputy Chief of Police, or Commander, the "supervisor" or
"supervisor in charge", as those terms are used throughout these Rules and
Regulations, shall also be determined by giving effect to the descending order
of the forgoing.
1.4.4.2: Determining Command:
When officers are of the same rank, they shall rank according to their
seniority as determined by time in rank.
1.4.4.3: Command Authority:
The officer in command shall have and be permitted to exercise the rights and
duties of command but shall be particularly careful to carry out all verbal and
written directives of the Village and the Chief of Police. Additionally, the
chain of command shall be respected. Directives, or the chain of command of the
Department, shall not, except in case of extreme emergency, be disregarded, and
when such is the case, a report of the action and the cause for same shall be
submitted in writing to the Chief of Police before the termination of duty on
the day the directives/chain of command was disregarded.
1.4.5: Duties Of The Chief Of Police:
1.4.5.1: General:
The Chief of Police is charged with the management administration and general
supervision of the Police Department of the Village of Wayne. To this end, he
shall be held strictly responsible for the general good order of the Department
and attaining/retaining maximum efficiency/effectiveness from the personnel,
equipment and facilities. The Chief of Police shall respect all policies and
procedures, rules and regulations, general and special orders as well as verbal
directives applicable to the position.
1.4.5.2: Specific:
The duties of the Chief of Police shall include, but not be necessarily limited
to:
1.   Enforcing, and with the advice and consent of the Village Board,
prescribing and promulgating rules and regulations;
2.   Prescribing, promulgating and enforcing the policies and procedures,
general and special orders for the government of the members and employees of
the Department so long as they are not inconsistent with the Charter and
ordinances of the Village or the State of Illinois. Policies and procedures,
general and special orders, shall be in writing, and shall not be inconsistent
with these rules and regulations. To this end, the Chief of Police shall
investigate all charges brought against any member(s) of the Department. The
Chief of Police may punish any member of the Department found guilty of the
violation of any of the rules and regulations, policies and procedures, written
or verbal orders of the Department so long as such punishment is consistent
with the laws of Illinois and the Village of Wayne;
3.   Conferring with subordinates for the purpose of giving instructions as to
promote uniformity and efficiency in the administration of the Department;
4.   Causing a general inspection to be made of all members of the Department
at least twice a year and establishing such other systems of inspections and
control as may be necessary to insure the efficient administration of the
Department;
5.   Preserving the public peace and enforcing the laws of Illinois and the
Village, of which the Department must take cognizance. Whenever any violation
thereof shall come to the attention of the Chief, or designated agent, shall
cause the requisite complaint to be made and procure the evidence for the
successful prosecution of the offender(s);
6.   Making all appointments and promotions in the Department subject to the
confirmation of the Public Safety Committee of the Village Board where
necessary and proper;
7.   Keeping the Village President and Public Safety Trustee informed of any
emergency, extraordinary action taken or necessary deviation from established
Village policy or procedure;
8.   Attend all regular legislative meetings as requested by the Village
President and such other meetings as directed by the Village President or
Public Safety Trustee;
9.   Keep daily work records and personnel rating sheets and such other books/
records as may be deemed necessary for the successful operation of the
Department;
10.   Delegate such of his powers as necessary for the efficient/effective
administration of the Department to be exercised by subordinates;
11.   Assign functions, powers and duties to members of the Department;
12.   Have and exercise all of the functions, powers and duties delegated to
the office by State or Village law and which is necessary and proper to attain/
retain an efficient/effective Department capable of protecting and serving the
Village of Wayne with the highest level of professionalism/integrity.
1.4.6: Duties Of Commanders, Lieutenants And Sergeants
1.4.6.1: General:
Subject to direction from the Chief of Police, the Deputy Chief of Police, a
Commander, a Lieutenant or Sergeant has direct control over all subordinate
members and employees of the Department. In addition to general and individual
responsibilities, these ranks are responsible for the following:
1.   Command: The direction and control of lesser rank individuals to assure
the proper performance of duties and adherence to established rules and
regulations, policies and procedures of the Department.
2.   Loyalty And Espirit de Corps: Its development and maintenance.
3.   Discipline And Morale: Its development and maintenance.
4.   Intradepartmental Action: The promotion of harmony and cooperation with
other units of the Department and initiation of proper action in cases not
regularly assigned to the command when delay necessary to inform the proper
unit might result in a failure to perform a police duty.
5.   Prompt Performance: Organization and assignment of duties to assure prompt
performance of Department functions and those of the command.
6.   Reports And Records: Preparation of required correspondence, reports and
maintenance of records relating to the activities of the command. Assurance
that information is communicated up and down the chain of command is required.
To this end, each person at the conclusion of their tour of duty shall submit
reports in writing as to the activity of the members (employees of the
Department under their command), as well as all pertinent information necessary
for the functioning of the Chief of Police.
7.   Maintenance: Assurance that facilities, equipment, vehicles, supplies and
material assigned to the Department are correctly used and maintained.
1.4.6.2: Specific:
In addition to the general and individual responsibilities of all members and
employees of the Department, the Deputy Chief of Police, Commanders,
Lieutenants or Sergeants are specifically responsible for the following:
1.   Supervision: Closely supervising the activities of subordinates, making
corrections where necessary and commending where appropriate.
2.   Leadership: Provide on the job training as needed for efficient operation
and coordination of effort.
3.   Direction: Exercise direct command in a manner that assures the good
order, conduct, discipline and efficiency of subordinates.
Exercise of command may extend to subordinates outside their usual spheres of
supervision if the police objective or reputation of the Department so requires
or if no other provision is made for personnel temporarily unsupervised. This
authority shall not be exercised unnecessarily. If a supervisor requires a
subordinate other than one's own to leave a regular assignment, the supervisor
so directing will inform the subordinate's own supervisor as soon as possible.
4.   Enforcement Of Rules: Enforcement of Department rules and regulations,
general and special orders, written and verbal orders and in general requiring
compliance with departmental policies and procedures.
5.   Inspections: Inspections of activities, personnel and equipment under
supervisor and initiation of suitable action in the event of a failure, error,
violation, misconduct or neglect of duty by a subordinate. Failure to act in
such situations will be considered dereliction of duty and subject to
disciplinary action.
6.   Assisting Subordinates: Having a working knowledge of the duties and
responsibilities of subordinates, observing contacts with the public, and being
available for assistance or instruction as may be required. Being responsive to
calls of serious emergencies, crimes in progress, assaults and others unless
actively engaged in a more serious police matter. Observing the conduct of
assigned personnel and taking remedial action and active charge where necessary
to maintain the efficiency, effectiveness, discipline or integrity of the
Department. To this end, all rules and regulations, policies and procedures,
general and special orders, as well as verbal orders applicable to the position
shall be respected.
1.4.7: Duties Of Patrol Officers:
1.4.7.1: General:
Patrol officers are responsible for performing a variety of duties related to
the protection of life and property, enforcement of criminal and traffic laws,
prevention of crime, preservation of the public peace, and the apprehension of
violators of the law. They will perform these duties as prescribed in the
Department general and special orders, as directed by supervisors and in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the Department and the Code of
Ethics of the law enforcement profession.
1.4.7.2: Specific:
In addition to these and the general and individual responsibilities of all
members and employees, patrol officers are specifically responsible for the
following:
1.   Reporting For Duty: The patrol officers shall report promptly at the
designated hour and place, in proper uniform for assignment and inspection. The
patrol officer shall listen attentively to orders and instruction of superior
officers and read such materials as are made available. They shall make written
memoranda of such information as necessary and shall immediately proceed with
patrol duty upon completion of these tasks.
2.   Police Mission: A patrol officer is responsible for the accomplishment of
the police mission. The officer shall constantly be alert for violations of the
law and shall make every effort to prevent breaches of the peace and offenses
against persons and property. The officer shall be held accountable for crime,
accidents, disorders and other criminal conditions that come or should come to
the attention of the officer.
3.   Familiarization: A patrol officer shall be thoroughly familiar with the
Village of Wayne, its rules and regulations, general and special orders,
policies and procedures of the Department. To this end, the officer shall
direct any question regarding the above to a superior officer and shall
continue to do so until the question is properly answered.
4.   Complaint Action: Patrol officers shall carefully investigate all
complaints which come to their attention. Suitable action shall be taken in
such cases and interested parties shall be suitably informed of the laws
relative to the particular complaint or incident.
5.   Preliminary Investigation: Patrol officers are responsible for preliminary
investigation of all crimes. At the scene of major crimes, subject to direction
of higher Department authority, the first officer at the scene, after it has
been established that the perpetrator is no longer present, will begin the
preliminary investigation.
6.   Miscellaneous: A patrol officer shall take cognizance of and shall report
all leaking water pipes, gas mains or sewers, report all street/traffic lights
that are defective; report all traffic signs, U.S. mail boxes, power/telephone
lines that are in need of repair. Any defect of public service installations or
any dangerous conditions of streets, sidewalks, Village property or other
property likely to prove dangerous to the public shall be immediately reported
to a superior as shall the presence of any litter, garbage, ashes, dead animals
or other offensive matter found in public.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed as limiting the authority of the
Chief of Police from assigning such functions/responsibilities as are necessary
to establish/maintain departmental efficiency/effectiveness.
1.4.8: Duties of Secretary-Clerk: This person shall provide for the efficient
operation of the office function and perform such tasks as are assigned by the
Chief of Police.
1.4.9: Duties Of Part-Time Members:
1.4.9.1: General:
The part-time members of the Department shall maintain a course of human
conduct that befits a police officer and that will not adversely reflect upon
the Village or the Police Department.
1.4.9.2: Specific:
The duties of part-time members of the Department shall include:
1.   Purchasing one's own handgun and other required equipment as approved by
the Chief of Police.
2.   Exercising police power only with the approval of the Chief of Police.
3.   Carrying a handgun only with the approval of the Chief of Police.
4.   Engaging in police training as directed by the Chief of Police. To this
end, members are required to periodically report to the Department's target
range for the purpose of qualifying in the use of the type of firearm
authorized by the Chief of Police.
5.   Adhering to all duties of patrol officers as set forth in 1.4.7 hereof,
except as limited by this subsection 1.4.9.2.
6.   Adhering to all policies and procedures, rules and regulations, general
and special orders applicable to the position.
Nothing in this Section shall be construed as limiting the authority of the
Chief of Police who is in charge of such personnel from assuming such
functions/responsibilities as are necessary to establish and maintain maximum
departmental efficiency and effectiveness.
1.5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
1.5.1: General:
Pursuant to the laws of the United States of America, the State of Illinois and
the Village of Wayne, the attached rules and regulations hereinafter set forth
are established for the guidance and government of the Wayne Police Department,
its members and employees.
The right is reserved to the Chief of Police, with the advice and consent of
the legislative body of the Village, to amend or revoke any of the attached
rules and regulations and to make additional rules and regulations from time to
time as the circumstances for the good of the service may require. If any
provision, clause or phrase of these rules and regulations or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of the remaining rules and
regulations which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of these rules and regulations are
declared to be separable.
Individuals subject to these rules and regulations must understand that no
compilation of rules and regulations can be established which will embrace all
cases arising in the discharge of their duties.
Necessarily some matters must be left to the common sense and discretion of the
individuals. However, all employees and members of the Department must
understand that if discretion is used in a wanton or unreasonable manner which
is determined to be detrimental to the discipline and efficiency of the
Department and the image of the Village and which law and sound public opinion
recognize as injurious to the ability of the Department and the Village to
protect and serve the community, that member of the Department who violates or
attempts to violate these rules and regulations will be subject to disciplinary
action.
Disciplinary action for a violation of these rules and regulations, either
attempted or actual, or an improper utilization of discretion of the
aforementioned type, shall be exclusively limited to reprimand or suspension by
the Chief of Police or reprimand, suspension or dismissal by the Village Board.
Existence of facts establishing a violation of law, rules or regulations,
general or special orders, policies or procedures, written or verbal orders is
all that is necessary as a basis for departmental discipline. All previous
rules and regulations of the Police Department are superseded as of the date
and time of approval of these rules and regulations by the legislative body and
chief executive of the Village. Any cause of action which arose or may arise
during a period of time in which these rules and regulations were not in effect
shall be handled by the rules and regulations in effect at the time of the
occurrence of the event which created the cause of action.
1.5.2: Prohibited Acts:
The following acts are prohibited to all employees and members of the
Department and may be made the subject of disciplinary action:
1.5.2.1: Violation Of Law: Violation or attempted violation of any Federal,
State, County, or Municipal law.
1.5.2.2: Disobedience Of Orders: Failure to obey and fully execute any lawful
order, written or oral, given by a superior officer/employee which shall
include but not be necessarily limited to these rules and regulations, all
general and special orders, policies and procedures of the Department. (The
term "lawful order" shall be construed as any order in keeping with the
performance of any duty prescribed by law or by these rules and regulations, or
for the preservation of good order, efficiency and proper discipline, which is
not in conflict with these rules and regulations.)
1.5.2.3: Possession/Use Of Alcohol: Possession and/or use of alcohol on duty
other than in an authorized duty capacity. Unless absolutely required to
conduct a police investigation, no member or employee of the Department shall
be to any degree under the influence of alcoholic beverages while on duty.
Additionally, being intoxicated in public while off duty is prohibited. (For
purposes of this rule, a person shall be considered intoxicated if the amount
of alcohol in the person's blood attains/exceeds the level of the presumption
of being under the influence as found in the Illinois Vehicle Code.)
1.5.2.4: Possession/Use Of Controlled Substances: Possession and/or use on duty
of controlled substances, except with the approval and guidance of a licensed
physician of Illinois and with the knowledge of a superior. At no time may an
employee of the Department use or be under the influence of a controlled
substance where such use or influence impairs or compromises the efficiency and
integrity of the Department/Village.
1.5.2.5: Payment Of Debts/Legal Liabilities: Failure to pay all just debts and
legal liabilities. No member or employee shall borrow any money from or
otherwise become indebted to any Village official, other member or employee,
shall solicit any Village official, other members or employees to consign,
endorse, or in any way whatsoever guarantee any promissory note, or other loan,
or shall offer to act as co-signator, endorser or guarantor of any promissory
note or other loan for any Village official, other member or employee of the
Department. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the right of any member
or employee of the Department from seeking the legitimate protection of any
bankruptcy statute.
1.5.2.6: Withholding Information On Criminal Activity: Withholding information
on criminal activity.
1.5.2.7: Self-Assigned Police Action: Undertaking of self-assigned police
action. (For purposes of this article, "self-assigned" means action undertaken
at the discretion of a member of the Department under less than emergency
circumstances, or action initiated by any member of the Department without the
request, direction or by the instruction of a superior.)
All emergency self-assigned police action shall within twenty four (24) hours
after commencement be reported in writing to the Chief of Police. Should the
matter involve the Chief of Police, all reporting shall be reported to the
chief executive of Wayne.
1.5.2.8: Prohibited Association/Frequenting: Frequenting or associating with
person(s), organizations, or places with a bad reputation, unless necessary for
police business, where such associating or frequenting would be detrimental to
the image of the Department or the Village.
To this end, personal association with persons who have been convicted of a
felony within the last five (5) years or who are under criminal investigation
or indictment, or who have an open and notorious reputation in the community
for felonious activity is prohibited.
1.5.2.9: Cooperation With Police Investigations: Failure to fully cooperate
with a police investigation. (Nothing in this Section shall be construed to be
violative of one's Federal or State constitutional or statutory rights) except
that, refusal to answer any question pertaining to an individual's duty-related
conduct shall be deemed insubordination and shall be punished by discharge or
other appropriate sanction.
1.5.2.10: Firearms Use/Display: Drawing or displaying of a firearm in any place
except for necessary inspection or use. Officers firing a gun accidentally or
intentionally, except on a target range, shall report same in writing to the
Chief of Police. Officers shall not intentionally fire their guns, except as
authorized by law or at a firearms range.
1.5.2.11: Public Criticism Of The Department: Public criticism of the
Department, its policies or members by talking, writing or expression in any
manner where such talking, writing or expression: a) is defamatory, b) is
obscene, c) is unlawful, d) tends to impair the operation of the Department by
impairing its efficiency, interfering with the ability of supervisors to
maintain discipline, or having been made with reckless disregard for truth or
falsity. To this end employees and members shall make maximum utilization of
the grievance procedure of the Department as described in the general orders of
the Department.
1.5.2.12: Divulgence Of Departmental Business: Discussion of the operations and
official business of the Department which is of a confidential nature with
anyone outside the Department without the permission of a superior. (For
purposes of this Section, all Department documents and orders are to be
considered confidential unless otherwise directed by a superior. This Section
does not apply to orders that are of such a nature that they must be
communicated to others.)
1.5.2.13: Department Correspondence: Entering into official Department
correspondence with anyone or any agency outside the Department, except with
the approval of the Chief of Police.
All official Department communications, by telephone or otherwise, outside of
the Village without permission of a superior is prohibited.
1.5.2.14: Political Utilization Of Official Position: Utilization of one's
official position with the Department for political purposes. To this end, the
use of one's official position for a nonduty related involvement in an election
is prohibited. Nothing in this Section should be construed to prohibit a member
of the Department from, as a private citizen:
         a.   Exercising the right of suffrage,
         b.   Casting a vote or expressing one's opinions privately,
         c.   Being delegates to or members of a political caucus, or
         d.   Taking part in political canvass.
1.5.2.15: Notices-Posting/Circulation/Destruction/Defacing: Destroying or
defacing any official written notice relating to police business. The posting
or circulation of any notices of a nonofficial derogatory character relating to
any person, group or police activity is prohibited.
1.5.2.16: Personal Appearance: Failure to have a neat, clean personal
appearance, which adversely reflects upon the individual's competency,
efficiency and pride as a member of the Department and the ability of the
Village and Department to foster and enhance a professional, efficient,
effective image/posture. To this end, the wearing of an improper uniform,
failure to carry all necessary police equipment or to maintain one's uniform
and/or equipment in good order is prohibited.
1.5.2.17: Professional Image: Failure to work diligently or with a bearing
consistent with the image of a professional police officer, said to include but
not be necessarily limited to:
         a.   Smoking or chewing gum in uniform when in plain view of the
public, while performing public duties, or in posted "no smoking" areas of the
Village Hall or Department offices;
         b.   Using obscene language or unnecessary shouting;
         c.   Conducting personal business while on duty;
         d.   Sleeping, loafing or being idle while on duty;
         e.   Taking excessively long meals or refreshment breaks;
         f.   Failure to respond promptly to a request for police service;
         g.   Failure to return promptly to service after finishing handling a
call for police service;
         h.   Lack of courtesy to an individual, either on the phone or in
person;
         i.   Gambling, in violation of any Federal, State, or local law,
unless to further a legitimate police purpose.
1.5.2.18: Use Of Force: Use of force which is excessive to accomplish one's
lawful purpose. To this end, all prisoners shall be treated humanely and with
regard to their legal rights.
1.5.2.19: Recommendations; Attorney/Bondsman, Etc.: Recommendation to any
suspect or prisoner of the retention of a specific attorney, law firm, bail
bondsman, bonding company or towing/wrecker service. This Section does not
apply to reference to the public defender, Legal Aid Society, or Lawyer's
Reference Service.
1.5.2.20: Carrying Of Gun/Departmental Identification: Failure to carry one's
gun and Department identification while on duty.
1.5.2.21: Departmental Property; Reporting Damage/Return: Failure to
immediately report in writing all damage to police vehicles and equipment or to
file such report which contains all known facts surrounding the cause and
nature of the damage.
Officers shall return all equipment owned by the Department when they retire,
resign or otherwise leave the Department, and they shall return any police
equipment when ordered to do so because of suspension or other absence from
work.
1.5.2.22: Unauthorized Persons In Police Vehicles: Allowing unauthorized
persons to ride in police vehicles. Unauthorized persons are those who are not
police personnel, prisoners or on official (authorized) police business or
activity as authorized by the Chief, the Deputy Chief, a Commander, Lieutenant
or Sergeant.
1.5.2.23: Duty To Read/Understand/Comply With Orders: Failure to read,
understand or comply with all rules and regulations, general and special
orders, policies and procedures of the Department, written or verbal orders of
a superior.
To this end, it shall be considered to be neglect of duty to fail to inquire of
a superior, until the matter is resolved, any question as to the meaning or
application of any law, rule or regulation, general or special order, policy or
procedure, written or verbal order.
1.5.2.24: Receipt Of Mail/Calls/Visitors At Police Station: Consistently
receiving personal mail or visitors at the police station, utilization of
departmental telecommunications equipment for nonduty related purposes.
1.5.2.25: Courtroom Demeanor: Unprofessional courtroom demeanor. For purpose of
this Section, officers should be punctual, properly dressed and prepared (to
include consultation with the prosecutor and processing pertinent police
reports, notes and evidence). At all times, members of the Department shall
maintain a respectful attitude toward the court and both counsels. Should one
be requested/subpoenaed to testify for the defense in any trial or hearing, or
against the Village or Department in any hearing or trial, the one so
requested/subpoenaed shall notify the Chief of Police in writing upon receipt
of the request/subpoena.
1.5.2.26: Truthfulness/Cooperation: Testifying, making reports or conducting
police business in a less than truthful and/or cooperative manner.
1.5.2.27: Departmental Records/Reports/Citations: Stealing, altering, forging
or tampering with any kind of police record, report or citation. To this end,
the removal of any record, card, report, letter, document or other official
files from the Department, except by process of law or as directed by the Chief
of Police or a superior, is prohibited. Additionally, the obtaining/duplicating
or attempted obtaining/duplication of any information from Department files,
sources or reports other than that to which one is properly entitled to in
accordance with one's duties/assignments is prohibited.
1.5.2.28: Illness/Condition (Physical/Mental) Sick Leave: Failure to notify a
superior officer when one becomes ill and cannot report for work, or if there
is any change in one's physical/mental health that could disqualify the
individual from being employed by the Department. Additionally, the use of sick
leave without just cause, false statements or the furnishing of any false
information with reference thereto by any member or employee of the Department
is strictly prohibited.
1.5.2.29: Absence From Work: Absence from work without permission or abstaining
wholly or in part from the full performance of one's duties in one's normal
manner without permission. To this end, employees claiming physical or mental
incapacity relating to their employment shall honor the request of the Chief of
Police or his designated agent to be periodically interviewed as to the nature
and extent of a claimed injury or illness and/or submit to an examination of
the claimed physical/mental incapacity by an individual chosen by the Chief of
Police or his designated agent or, in the alternative, an individual chosen by
the employee claiming the incapacity. In either event, the examining party must
be licensed by the State of Illinois to conduct such examinations and the
results of the examination shall be made totally available both to the employee
and the Chief of Police. Failure to honor such a request of the Chief of Police
or his designated agent shall be violative of this rule.
1.5.2.30: Residence; Telephone/Address: Failure to maintain a telephone at
one's residence or to immediately notify the Chief of Police, in writing, of
any change of address or telephone number.
1.5.2.31: Commercial Utilization Of Enforcement Authority: Utilization of the
enforcement authority granted/approved by the Village where one is compensated,
directly or indirectly, for exercising the enforcement authority/image for
commercial, as opposed to official, purpose, except as authorized in writing by
the Chief of Police.
1.5.2.32: Off-Duty Employment: Off-duty employment without the knowledge and
approval of the Chief of Police. The approval of the Chief of Police shall be
based upon: a) increasing off-duty efficiency and availability, b) avoiding
potential conflicts of interest and protecting the image of the Department, c)
avoiding impairment of on-duty performance. All outside employment activity in
the capacity as a law enforcement officer will be considered as regular law
enforcement work and the conduct and performance of duty will be carried out in
compliance with the rules and regulations, general and special orders of the
Department. The job requirements of the Wayne Police Department shall always
take precedence over those of secondary employment.
1.5.2.33: Gifts; Solicitation/Acceptance: Soliciting or accepting any gift/
gratuity from a host or donor if the employee knows or has reason to believe
that the host or donor is seeking to influence the employee's performance or
nonperformance of an official duty, has an interest which may be substantially
affected by the performance of official duty, has a substantial interest in an
enterprise which is licensed or regulated by the Municipality or has a pending
matter before the Municipality or the judiciary.
1.5.2.34: On- Or Off-Duty Conduct; Morale, Efficiency, Image, Public
Confidence: Engaging in conduct on or off duty which adversely affects the
morale or efficiency of the Department, or in the alternative, engaging in
conduct on or off duty which has a tendency to destroy public respect for the
employee and/or the Department and/or destroy confidence in the operation of
the Municipal service.
1.5.2.35: Neglect Of Duty: Neglect of duty. To this end, there shall be no
failure to give suitable attention to the performance of duty. Examples
include, but are not necessarily limited to: failure to take appropriate action
on the occasion of a criminal offense, disorder or other act or condition
deserving police attention; absence without leave; failure to report to duty at
the time and place designated; unnecessary absence from one's assignment during
a tour of duty; failure to perform duties or comply with any rule or
regulation, general or special order; or failure to conform to Department
operating policies and/or procedures.
1.5.2.36: Prompt Performance Of Duty: Failure to promptly perform as directed
all lawful duties required by constituted authority, notwithstanding the
general assignment of duties and responsibilities.
1.5.2.37: Insubordination: Insubordination which shall include, but not be
necessarily limited to, any failure or deliberate refusal to obey a lawful
order given by a superior, or any disrespectful, mutinous, insolent, or abusive
language or action toward a superior, whether in or out of the presence of the
superior.
1.5.2.38: Valuable Items - Buying/Receiving/Selling: Buying, receiving or
selling anything of value from or to any complainant, suspect, witness,
defendant, prisoner or other person involved in any case which has come to the
attention of or which arose out of Department employment, except as may be
specifically authorized by the Chief of Police.
1.5.2.39: Solicitation Of Favorable Acts: Soliciting anyone to intercede with
the Chief of Police, legislative body or government, or any elected/appointed
official in relation to promotions, departmental assignment, disposition of
pending charges or findings in a disciplinary proceeding. Nothing in this
Section shall be construed to be applicable to licensed attorneys-at-law of the
State of Illinois, when representing an employee/member of the Department.
Nothing in this Section shall preclude any employee or member of the Department
from requesting any person to appear as a witness on behalf of said employee/
member in any proceeding, or from requesting any person to be a character
reference.
1.5.2.40: Misconduct Known To Departmental Personnel: Failure to report a
fellow Department member or employee's violation of a law, rule or regulation,
policy or procedure, general or special order. To this end, all such violations
shall be reported in writing to a superior in the Department. Any violation on
the part of the Chief of Police shall be reported to the Village President of
Wayne.
1.5.2.41: Physical/Mental Condition: Lack of maintenance of good physical or
mental condition which interferes with the proper handling of departmental
business.
1.5.2.42: Termination Of Duty/Assignment: Termination of duty/assignment unless
properly relieved or dismissed by constituted authority.
1.5.2.43: Possession Of Keys: Possession of keys, pertaining to Department
business or obtained under departmental authority, not one's own, without the
approval of the Chief of Police.
1.5.2.44: Cooperation With Internal Investigations: Failure to answer
questions, respond to lawful orders, to render material and relevant
statements, in an internal Department investigation when such orders, questions
and statements are directly related to job responsibilities. Nothing in this
Section shall be construed as to be violative of one's Federal or State
constitutional or statutory rights, except that refusal to answer any question
relating to any individual's duty-related conduct on self-incrimination grounds
shall be deemed a violation of this Section and shall be punishable by
discharge or other appropriate sanction.
1.5.2.45: Participation In Civil Matters: Giving a deposition, affidavit or
appearing as a witness in a civil matter stemming from one's official duties as
a Department member without the knowledge of the Chief of Police or designated
alternate.
1.5.2.46: Rendering Aid/Furnishing Identification: Failure to render and or
furnish information as is consistent with one's duty. To this end, a Department
member/employee shall furnish one's name and badge number in a respectful
manner when so requested.
1.5.2.47: Loss Of Village Property/Equipment - Reporting: Failure to promptly
report to the Chief of Police or designated agent the loss of any Village
property/equipment that has been furnished the individual.
1.5.2.48: Recovered Property/Evidentiary Material: Failure to turn over to the
designated agent of the Department all lost, stolen, recovered, abandoned or
evidentiary material which comes into the possession of a Department member as
a result of the performance of departmental duties. To this end, all such
material shall be turned over prior to the completion of the tour of duty
during which the material came into the possession of the member of the
Department.
1.5.2.49: Fees/Rewards: Acceptance or receipt of any fee or reward from any
source for any services rendered in the line of duty without the knowledge and
written consent of the Chief of Police.
1.5.2.50: Fighting/Quarreling: Fighting or quarreling with another member of
the Department.
1.5.2.51: Department Property; Loss Or Damage, Negligence Or Inattention: Loss
or damage to Department property due to negligence or inattention to duty.
1.5.2.52: Escapes: Allowing a suspect or prisoner to escape from custody due to
negligence or inattention to duty.
1.5.2.53: General Responsibilities At Crime Scene; Arrests: Failure to
thoroughly search for, collect, preserve and identify evidence of persons,
property and locations in any arrest or investigation.
1.5.2.54: Serving As Character Witness: Giving testimony as a character witness
for any defendant in a criminal trial without the knowledge of the Chief of
Police.
1.5.2.55: Knowledge Of Laws, Rules And Regulations, Policies And Procedures,
General And Special Orders: Failure to establish and maintain a working
knowledge of laws, policies and procedures, rules and regulations, general and
special orders.
1.5.2.56: Registration Of Personal Police Equipment: Failure to register with
the Chief of Police the description and/or serial numbers of all personal
police equipment owned or carried.
1.5.2.57: Settlement Of Duty-Incurred Expenses, Damages: Acceptance from any
person of money or other compensation for damages sustained or expenses
incurred in the line of duty without first notifying the Chief of Police in
writing.
1.5.2.58: Duplication Of Police Identification: Duplication, trading or
exchange of police identification without the knowledge and consent of the
Chief of Police.
1.5.2.59: Private Benefit From Departmental Association: Use of the prestige or
influence of one's official position, or the use of the time, facilities,
equipment or supplies of the Department for the private gain or advantage to
oneself or another.
1.5.2.60: Vexatious/Unnecessary Complaints: Making a vexatious or unnecessary
complaint against a fellow member of the Department.
1.5.2.61: Use Of Private Vehicles/Equipment: Use of private vehicles/equipment
for official purposes unless directed/authorized to do so by the Chief of
Police or a superior.
1.5.2.62: Reports: Failure to promptly submit such reports as are required by
the performance of one's duties or by constituted authority.
1.6: DEPARTMENTAL DISCIPLINE:
1.6.1: Who Is Subject To Disciplinary Action:
Any member or employee who violates or attempts to violate a law of the United
States of America, the State of Illinois, local ordinances, or who violates or
attempts to violate any rule or regulation, policy or procedure, general or
special order, written or verbal order, or who is incompetent to perform one's
duty is subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
1.6.2: Departmental Authority To Discipline:
Final departmental disciplinary authority and responsibility rests with the
Chief of Police. Other supervisory personnel may take the following
disciplinary measures:
- Oral reprimand
- Written reprimand (subject to approval by the Chief of Police)
- Emergency suspension
- Written recommendations for other penalties
1.6.3: Emergency Suspension:
The following personnel have the authority to impose emergency suspension until
the next business day against a member or employee when it appears that such
action is in the best interest of the Department:
   - Chief of Police
   - Deputy Chief of Police
   - Any Commander, Lieutenant, Sergeant, or Shift Commander
   - The Village President in cases involving the Chief of Police
1.6.4: Follow-Up Action On Emergency Suspension:
A member or employee receiving an emergency suspension shall be required to
report to the suspending authority on the next business day at 0900 hours
unless otherwise directed. The supervisor imposing or recommending the
suspension shall also report at the same time.
1.6.5: Reports Of Disciplinary Action Taken Or Recommended:
1.6.5.1: Information Required:
Whenever disciplinary action is taken or recommended (except for oral
reprimand) a written report must be submitted immediately containing the
following information:
- The name, rank, star number, and present assignment of the person being
disciplined, including specific assignment and hours of assignment;
- The date(s) and time(s) of the misconduct and location(s), indicating on or
off duty;
- The section number(s) of this manual violated or common name of this
infraction;
- A complete statement of the facts of the misconduct;
- The punishment imposed or recommended;
- The written signature and position of the preparer and the preparer's
position in relation to the member being examined.
1.6.5.2: Distribution Of Reports Of Disciplinary Action:
The report shall be distributed as follows by the one imposing or recommending
disciplinary action:
- Original and one copy to the Chief of Police
- One copy to the subject of the report
- One copy retained by the supervisor imposing or recommending the action
1.6.6: Informing The Person Being Disciplined:
The member or employee being disciplined shall be informed of the charges at
the time such action is taken.
1.6.7: Citizen Complaints Against Department Personnel:
Complaints by citizens against members or employees of the Department shall be
recorded and investigated by the supervisor in charge as soon as possible in
accordance with the following directions. When the investigation cannot be
completed on the date it is received, a preliminary report will be prepared by
the supervisor in charge outlining the complaint and his actions and delivered
to the Chief of Police via chain of command. Cases involving the supervisor in
charge shall be investigated by the next senior supervisor. All investigations
of the Chief of Police shall be conducted by the Village President or the
Village trustees, or by a person or persons authorized by the Village Board.
1.6.8: Serious Complaints Or Allegations:
If, in the opinion of the supervisor in charge, the incident is of sufficient
gravity, the supervisor shall notify the Chief of Police, regardless of the
hour. In addition, immediate action necessary to preserve the integrity of the
Department until arrival of the Chief of Police shall be taken. Should the
matter pertain to or involve the Chief of Police, the Village President shall
be notified and take appropriate measures.
1.6.9: Investigation Of Alleged Misconduct:
The individual assigned the investigation of an alleged act of misconduct on
the part of a member or employee of the Department shall conduct a thorough and
accurate investigation.
Such investigation shall include formal statements from all parties concerned,
when necessary and pertinent, the gathering and preservation of physical
evidence pertaining to the case, and all other information bearing on the
matter.
1.6.10: Reports Of Investigations Of Alleged Acts Of Misconduct:
Alleged acts of misconduct must be investigated and results of the
investigation must be reduced to a written report.
The investigator shall summarize the pertinent facts, including:
- An abstract (summary) of the complaint or alleged act of misconduct;
- Pertinent portions of the statements of all parties to the incident;
- A description of the incident, physical evidence and other evidence important
to the case;
- The observations and conclusions of the investigating officer.
1.6.11: Conclusion Of investigation Involving Department Members/Employees:
All investigations of Department members or employees accused of misconduct
will conclude with one of the following findings:
- Unfounded: The investigation indicates that the act or acts complained of did
not occur or failed to involve police personnel;
- Exonerated: Acts did occur, but were justified, lawful and proper;
- Not Sustained: Investigation fails to discover sufficient evidence to clearly
prove or disprove the allegations made in the complaint;
- Sustained: The investigation disclosed sufficient evidence to clearly prove
the allegations made in the complaint.
Appropriate disciplinary action, if required, will be recommended by the
investigator in accordance with the following guide. The report will be
forwarded via the chain of command to the Chief of Police with each member in
the chain indicating his approval or disapproval and attaching any remarks or
observations bearing on the case.
1.6.12: Penalties:
The following penalties may be assessed against any member or employee of the
Department as disciplinary action:
- Oral reprimand;
- Written reprimand;
- Voluntary surrender of time off in lieu of other action;
- Voluntary surrender of accumulated overtime in lieu of other action;
- Suspension without pay; (requires Village Board approval);
- Dismissal from the Department (requires Village Board approval).
1.6.13: Appeal Rights:
Any member or employee of the Department may appeal to the Village Board for
any departmental disciplinary action and shall, prior to any discharge for
cause, have a right to a hearing before the Village Board or any impartial
hearing officer duly appointed by it.
Nothing herein shall be construed to provide for any appeal rights in the event
of discharge without cause, which shall not be considered "discipline" within
the meaning of these rules and regulations. Nothing in these rules and
regulations shall be construed to change the status of all personnel, employees
or members of the Department as "at will" employees of the Village.
1.7: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
1.7.1: General And Special Orders - Promulgation And Review:
As outlined in Section 1.4.5.2, the Chief shall have the responsibility to
prescribe policies and procedures, general and special orders for the day-to-
day operations of the Department. Such orders will be consistent with this
document "Rules and Regulations" and will be reviewed regularly by the Village
Board or a Trustee empowered by the Board to conduct such review.
By passage of Village Ordinance 93-20, "Rules and Regulations, Village of Wayne
Police Department", those policies serially numbered 101A through 106A
following are deemed operative and binding an all members of the Department.
1.7.2: Employees At Will:
All full- or part-time employees of the Village of Wayne Police Department not
otherwise covered by a written employment agreement are employees "at will",
and shall be appointed by the President of the Board of Trustees of the Village
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees of the Village. The Chief
of Police shall be deemed a Village officer and shall be appointed by the
President of the Board of Trustees of the Village for a one-year term
commencing May 1 and ending April 30 of the following year, subject to the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Chief of Police and any other
member or employee of the Department, whether full or part time, may be
discharged without cause by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees. Nothing
in these rules and regulations, or in any general or special orders, policies
or procedures promulgated pursuant to these rules shall be construed to provide
any procedural rights of appeal for officers, employees or other personnel
discharged without cause, or to confer any property right in or expectation of
continued employment by the Village of Wayne.
101A - PERSONAL PHONES: It will be prohibited to carry, use or possess your
personal phone while working in a Wayne squad car.
102A - RIDE ALONGS: It will be prohibited to have a ride along or have an
unauthorized subject in the Wayne squad car without the permission of the Chief
or Lieutenant. If permission is granted, a new waiver must be signed and dated.
104A - ACTIVITY SHEETS: Sheets will be filled out and turned in at the end of
each shift. It should cover all the activities you encounter during your shift.
Also location and time of breaks and lunches. All reports should be completed
and turned in at the end of the shift. Log sheet should be completed at the end
of the shift.
105A - COURT APPEARANCES: If you are scheduled for a court appearance, the only
way you can be excused from going to court is with the permission of the Chief
or Lieutenant.
106A - REPORTING FOR DUTY: The on-coming officer should report to work ten (10)
minutes before your shift so that information may be exchanged. This is
considered a courtesy to each other. This is for the safety of each officer and
to update each other on the information pertaining to the activity of each
shift. The on-coming officer will report promptly at his starting time.
(Ord. 93-20, 9-21-1993; amd. Ord. 21-03, 2-16-2021; Ord. 23-09, 7-5-2023)
CHAPTER 9
BUILDING AND ZONING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Department Established
1-9-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
1-9-3: Operation And Location Of Department
1-9-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the Village Building and Zoning Department. (Ord.
88-03, 5-3-1988)
1-9-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The function of the Village Building and Zoning Department is to enforce the
Village Building Code and Zoning Ordinance 1 . The management of said
Department will rest with two (2) persons; namely, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer will manage those areas pertaining to zoning and the Director of
Building and Zoning will manage those areas pertaining to the construction of
buildings pursuant to the Village Building Code and regulations. The Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the Director of Building and Zoning will in turn report
to the Village President. In the event of a vacancy in the position of Director
of Building and Zoning, the person to fill that position will be appointed by
the Village President. (Ord. 88-03, 5-3-1988; amd. 1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Titles 8 and 10 of this Code.
1-9-3: OPERATION AND LOCATION OF DEPARTMENT:
The Village Building and Zoning Department shall maintain an office in a
convenient location within the Village. Said office location shall be
determined by the Director of Building and Zoning and the Zoning Enforcement
Officer with the advice and consent of the Village Board. Said Building and
Zoning Department office shall be open for a reasonable schedule of hours
during the week. A schedule of said hours shall be posted for the public. (Ord.
88-03, 5-3-1988; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 10
VILLAGE PERSONNEL POLICIES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Employee Compensation And Administrative Program
1-10-2: Employee Deferred Compensation Plan
1-10-3: References For Former Employees
1-10-4: Deferred Compensation Agreement
1-10-1: EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROGRAM:
   A.   Plan Adopted: The Village's Employee Compensation and Administrative
Program, hereinafter set out in full is hereby adopted as the official Employee
Compensation and Administrative Program for the Village addressing work
classifications, compensation review and fringe benefits, including but not
limited to deferred compensation. The policies hereby adopted shall be
effective as of April 1, 1995.
   B.   Supersede Prior Plans: The Employee Compensation and Administrative
Program adopted herein addressing work classifications, compensation review and
fringe benefits, including but not limited to deferred compensation, shall
supersede and replace all prior written or unwritten policies or procedures of
the Village covered by this personnel policy, except that nothing herein shall
be construed to affect or impair the rights, duties or obligations of the
Village or employees of the Village under any existing written contract of
employment or other written agreement. (Ord. 95-05, 4-4-1995)
1-10-2: EMPLOYEE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN:
   A.   Plan Adopted: The Village's Deferred Compensation Program and the
deferred compensation agreement in the form set out in Appendix I following
this Chapter, be and the same are hereby approved.
   B.   Agreements Authorized: The Village President of the Board of Trustees
and the Village Clerk are hereby authorized and directed to enter into deferred
compensation agreements with any and all full-time employees of the Village,
subject to the other provisions of this Section.
   C.   Existing Agreement: Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit
or abridge any rights or privileges of any Village employee under any existing
deferred compensation agreement except to the extent that such employee
voluntarily elects to enter into a new deferred compensation agreement with the
Village as provided for herein. (Ord. 95-04A, 3-21-1995)
1-10-3: REFERENCES FOR FORMER EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Official Policy: The official policy of the Village with respect to the
furnishing of references for former employees of the Village shall be as
follows:
      1.   No officer, employee or agent of the Village shall be authorized to
or shall provide any information regarding former employees without the
approval of the Administration Committee of the Village Board;
      2.   All inquiries regarding former Village employees or requests for
information regarding former Village employees must be in writing, and shall
upon receipt by any officer, employee or agent of the Village be forwarded to
the Administration Committee;
      3.   Upon receipt of a written request for a reference or information
regarding a former Village employee, the Committee shall promptly verify the
dates of employment of any such employee, the position or positions held, and
the most recent annual salary or hourly wage as applicable. The chairman of the
Committee shall thereafter provide such information in writing to the party so
requesting. A copy of any such letter shall be placed in the personnel file of
the employee in question.
   B.   Additional Information Furnished:
      1.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to prevent the furnishing
of any additional information in response to any legitimate inquiry from a law
enforcement agency; provided, however, that such request shall nevertheless be
processed in accordance with the provisions of subsection A hereof. In the
event that the Committee deems it necessary for reasons related to the nature
of the inquiry by such law enforcement agency, such response need not be in
writing, but a memorandum of the substance of the inquiry shall be placed in
the custody of the Wayne Police Department.
      2.   The Administration Committee shall furnish additional written
information regarding a former employee if, after a request to and review by
the corporate authorities, the corporate authorities determine that such
additional information should be provided. In such event, additional
information shall be provided in accordance with subsection A hereof. (Ord. 90-
13, 6-5-1990; amd. 1998 Code)
1-10-4: DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT:
   APPENDIX I
   Form of
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into this       day of            by and
between the Village of Wayne, counties of DuPage and Kane, State of Illinois,
municipal corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of
Illinois, hereinafter called the Village, and           , an employee of said
Village residing in Kane County, Illinois, hereinafter called Employee.
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, Employee is willing to continue in the employ of the Village if the
Village will guarantee Employee certain benefits, in accordance with the
provisions and conditions hereinafter set forth:
NOW, THEREFORE,
Section I. The Village hereby agrees that if Employee shall have been
continuously employed as a full time employee by the village as defined in the
Village of Wayne Restated Employee Compensation and Administrative Program,
from the date of Employee's employment in that capacity, March 3, 1995, to the
date of Employee's retirement at age 55 or thereafter, to pay Employee and
Employee hereby agrees to accept from the Village, an amount equal to the
accumulation in a fund (hereafter called Fund) at retirement of Employee
determined as follows:
(a.) The total contributions by the Village to the Fund. Such contributions
shall be made July 1 each year, as hereafter provided, and shall be such
amounts as shall be determined by the Village in its sole discretion, but not
less than eight (8) percent of the annual base salary then in effect for full-
time salaried employees.
(b.) Any investment income or gains and losses from security transactions
realized by the Fund when invested as provided in subparagraph (d.) below.
(c.) The initial contribution to the Fund shall be made on the first July 1
that occurs after the date of employment of Employee with Village as a full-
time employee. Succeeding contributions shall be made annually so long as
Employee remains a full-time employee. Each annual contribution shall be made
for the year following the date of the contribution, that is for the period
from July 1 of the year of contribution until June 30 of the following year.
(d.) The Fund, shall be invested by Village in investments which Village is
permitted by Illinois Statutes. Interest earned and gains and losses realized
from investments of the Fund will be added to, or subtracted from, the Fund
when realized.
(e.) The amounts set forth in Section I (a.) and I (b.) above shall be paid in
a lump sum within THIRTY (30) days after the occurrence of an event entitling
employees to such payment.
Section II. The Village and Employee further agree as follows:
(a.) VESTING RIGHTS AND DEFINITIONS: Subject only to the reservation contained
in Section IV hereof, Employee's rights in the funds provided for in Section I
(a.) and I (b.) shall be vested as follows:
1. After five years of eligible service, TWENTY-FIVE PERCENT (25%) of Fund.
2. After five years of eligible service the percentage of Fund vested shall
increase by 5% for every additional full year of eligible service with the
Village, up to fifteen years of such additional service.
(b.) RETIREMENT: Employee may retire at age 55 or thereafter at which time the
amounts will be paid to employee as provided in Section I. Any amount not
vested pursuant to Section II (a.) shall become vested upon retirement.
(c.) DEATH: In the event of Employee's death prior to retirement, the Village
agrees to pay to designated beneficiary or beneficiaries of the Employee the
amounts remaining in the Fund at the date of death in the manner provided in
Section I.
(d.) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OR CHANGE IN WORK STATUS: In the event the
employment of Employee is terminated for any reason other than by death or
disability prior to Employee's 55th birthday, or in the event Employee's full-
time work status is reduced to less than full-time status, the portion of the
Fund vested at the date of termination pursuant to Section II (a.) shall
continue to be invested in accordance with this agreement and will be paid to
Employee within 30 days after the later of the Employee's separation from
service with the Village and the Employee's 55th birthday.
(e.) TERMINATION DUE TO DISABILITY: In the event that Employee's employment
with the Village is terminated due to total disability and so long as Employee
has received written confirmation of qualification to receive Social Security
disability benefits, the Village agrees to pay Employee the amount of the Fund
in the manner provided in Section I.
(f.) MAXIMUM DEFERRAL AMOUNT: The amount contributed pursuant to Section I(a.)
shall not exceed the amount determined under paragraph (1) or (2) below as may
be applicable.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amount contributed shall not
exceed the lessor of
(i) $7,500; or
(ii) 331/3% of the Employee's Includible Compensation.
(2) For 1 or more of the Employee's last 3 taxable years ending before the
Employee attains Normal Retirement Age, the amount contributed shall not exceed
the lessor of -
(i) $15,000; or
(ii) The sum of the contribution limitation established under paragraph (1) for
the taxable year and so much of the limitation established under paragraph (1)
for preceding taxable years which has not been previously contributed pursuant
either to paragraph (1) or this paragraph (2).
For the purposes of this subsection (f.), Normal Retirement Age shall mean the
later of age fifty-five (55) or the earliest age at which a participant in the
State's basic pension plan may retire without consent of the State and be
entitled to receive immediate retirement benefits without actuarial or similar
reduction because of retirement before some later specified age in the State's
basic pension plan. The term "Includible Compensation" for the purposes of this
subsection (f.) shall mean compensation for service performed for the Village
which is currently includible in gross income after excluding any amount
excluded by reason of this Agreement.
(g.) MANDATORY DISTRIBUTION AT AGE 701/2: Notwithstanding anything in this
Agreement to the contrary, the amount to which the Employee is entitled under
this Agreement as set forth in Section I (a.) and (b.) shall be paid to the
Employee no later than April 1 of the year following the year in which the
Employee attains age 701/2, whether or not the Employee has retired.
Section III. The Fund shall remain the property of the Village until such time
as distribution is required under the terms of this Agreement.
Section IV. In the event the Village, either voluntarily or as required by law,
enters into the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund or other pension plan
provided for municipal employees, and Employee qualifies for participation in
such plan, this agreement will be terminated. In that event, Employee will
forfeit any rights to the Fund, vested or otherwise.
Section V. It is agreed that neither Employee nor any beneficiary or designee
of Employee shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer or
otherwise convey the right to receive any payments hereunder, which payments,
and the right thereto, are expressly declared to be non-assignable and non-
transferable. All amounts contributed to the Fund, all property and rights
purchased with such amounts and all income attributable to such amounts,
property or rights shall remain (until made available to the Employee or the
Employee's designated beneficiary) solely the property and rights of the
Village (without restriction to the payment of rights pursuant to this
Agreement) and shall be subject only to the claims of the Village's creditors.
Section VI. The benefits payable under this Agreement shall be independent of
and in addition to any other employment agreement that may exist from time to
time between the parties hereto, or any other compensation payable by the
Village to Employee whether as salary, bonus or otherwise. This Agreement shall
not be deemed to constitute a contract of employment between the parties
hereto, nor shall any provisions hereof restrict the right of the Village to
discharge Employee or restrict the right of Employee to terminate his/her
employment.
Section VII. This Agreement may be revoked or amended in whole or in part if
such is in writing and signed by both of the parties hereto.
This Agreement is executed on the date above written.
         By:                                 
          President, Board of Trustees
ATTEST:
By:                        
   Village Clerk
         By:                                 
          Employee, Village of Wayne
NOTARY:
By:                        
On this the        day of               , 19     .
(Ord. 95-04A, 3-21-1995)
CHAPTER 11
BIDDING AND CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Bidding And Contract Procedures
1-11-1: BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Competitive Bidding Required: Any work or other public improvement that
is not to be paid for in whole or in part of special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials, and
services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based, whenever
reasonably possible, on competitive bids.
   B.   Formal Contract Procedure: All work or other public improvement that is
not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders, or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment, or contractual services except as otherwise provided herein, when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00),
shall be purchased from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of the trustees then holding office.
   C.   Advertisement For Bids: A notice inviting bids ("bid notice") shall be
placed on the village website. The village shall also advertise all pending
work or purchases by posting a notice on the public bulletin board at the
village hall. If the nature of the work includes the construction of public
improvements, the bid notice shall be published in one or more construction
publications, such as, but not limited to, dodge reports and the Illinois
department of transportation bulletin. At the discretion of the board of
trustees, the bid notice may be published at least once in a newspaper having
general circulation within the village.
   D.   Scope Of Notice: The bid notice required herein shall include a general
description of the work to be performed or the articles to be purchased, shall
state where specifications may be secured, and shall specify the time and place
for opening bids.
   E.   Bid Deposits: When deemed necessary by the board of trustees, bid
deposits shall be prescribed in the bid notice. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract by
the board of trustees. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit
required by the board of trustees upon failure of such bidder to enter into a
contract within ten (10) days after the award.
Such bid deposit may be in the form of a certified check, bond or letter of
credit in an amount as specified in the bid notice to ensure finalization of
the contract and to indemnify the village against all loss, damages and claims
that may accrue against the village as a consequence of the granting of the
contract.
   F.   Bid Opening Procedures:
      1.   Sealed: Bids shall be submitted sealed to the village and shall be
identified as bids on the envelope. The name of the project shall be identified
on the bid envelope as set forth in the bid notice.
      2.   Opening: Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the bid notice.
      3.   Tabulation: A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the
village clerk, village engineer or other designated village official.
   G.   Rejection Of Bids: The village, through its corporate authorities,
shall have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids when the
public interest will be served thereby.
   H.   Bidders In Default To Village: The village shall not accept the bid of
a contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other money
due the village.
   I.   Award Of Contract:
      1.   Authority In Village: The board of trustees shall have the authority
to award contracts within the purview of this section, unless delegated to a
village official.
      2.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the
village to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the board of
trustees shall consider:
         a.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         b.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         c.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         d.   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or services,
whether with respect to the village or other government entities;
         e.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service, whether with respect to the
village or other government entities;
         f.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         g.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         h.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract, as applicable; and
         i.   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      3.   Performance Bonds: The board of trustees shall have the authority to
require a performance bond before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the village
and to conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds.
   J.   Open Market Procedure: All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of not more than the estimated value of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) shall be made in the open market, without advertisement and
without observing the procedure prescribed by this section for the award of
formal contracts in such a manner so as to ensure the best interests of the
public after solicitation of bids on proposals by mail, telephone, e-mail,
facsimile transmission or otherwise.
   K.   Professional Services Exempt From Bidding Requirements: All contracts
for professional services, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers,
real estate appraisers, architects, and any other profession whose ethical code
involved prohibits or discourages involvement in normal bidding procedures, may
be entered into by the village without observing the bidding procedures
prescribed by this section for the award of formal contracts.
Regular employment contracts in the municipal service shall likewise be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
   L.   Emergency Purchases: In case of an apparent emergency that requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials, or services, the board of
trustees shall be empowered to secure by open market procedure as herein set
forth, at the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials, or
services regardless of the amount of the expenditure. A finding of such an
emergency shall be made in an affirmative vote of at least two- thirds (2/3) of
the board of trustees at the time of such emergency contract or no later than
the first regular village board meeting thereafter.
   M.   Cooperative Purchasing: The village shall have the authority to join
with other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the village would be served thereby.
   N.   Purchasing Authority Of Village President And Committee Chairs:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, the village
president and the chairs of committees of the board of trustees shall have the
authority to purchase supplies, materials and services if the amount thereof is
not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), provided that such purchase is
reported to the board of trustees not later than the first regular board
meeting thereafter. (Ord. 14-21, 11-18-2014; amd. Ord. 20-06, 6-16-2020)
CHAPTER 12
911 EMERGENCY SYSTEM
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Surcharge Imposed
1-12-3: Exemptions From Surcharge
1-12-4: Returns And Payment Of Surcharge
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTIONS: The number of voice grade communications channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carriers switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's inter-premises
traffic.
TELECOMMUNICATION CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: Has the meaning ascribed to the term in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-1989)
1-12-2: SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
A surcharge at the rate of fifty cents ($0.50) per month per in-service network
connection is hereby imposed upon all telecommunication carriers engaged in the
business of transmitting messages by means of electricity originating within
the corporate limits of the Village and terminating within the State of
Illinois for funding of an enhanced 911 emergency telephone system. A network
connection shall not be deemed to be in-service where a subscriber's account is
deemed uncollectible by the telecommunications carrier. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-1989)
1-12-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM SURCHARGE:
The Kane or DuPage County Clerks shall provide any telecommunication carrier
subject to the surcharge with a certified list of those network connections
assigned to the County of Kane or the County of DuPage to be exempt from
imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may be revised by the Counties
on sixty (60) days prior written notice provided to the telecommunication
carriers. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-1989)
1-12-4: RETURNS AND PAYMENT OF SURCHARGE:
   A.   Timing: The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month
following the expiration of ninety (90) days from the date the Kane and DuPage
County Clerks certify to any of the telecommunication carriers who are subject
to the surcharge that the referendum regarding this surcharge has passed.
   B.   Remittance Of Surcharge: Every telecommunication carrier shall remit to
the Kane and DuPage County Treasurers the amount of surcharge due and owing for
each calendar month within thirty (30) days following expiration of each month
to which the surcharge applies, net of any network or other 911 or
sophisticated 911 system charge then due the particular telecommunication
carrier as shown on the itemized bill.
   C.   Return: Simultaneously with the remittance subscribed in subsection B
above, each telecommunication carrier shall make a return to the Kane and
DuPage County Treasurers for the period to which the remittance applies,
stating as follows:
      1.   The name of the telecommunication carrier.
      2.   The telecommunication carrier's principal place of business.
      3.   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
      4.   The amount of surcharge due.
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   D.   Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any surcharge due, or to become due, under this Chapter from
the telecommunication carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided, that
no amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a
claim therefor shall be so credited.
   E.   Limitations: No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after
the due date of such amount. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-1989)
CHAPTER 13
POLICE PENSION FUND
SECTION:
1-13-1: Creation
1-13-2: Board Of Trustees
1-13-3: Disposition Of Monies
1-13-1: CREATION:
There is hereby created and established a police pension fund (the "Fund") in
and for the Village in accordance with article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code 1
, to be known as the "Village of Wayne Police Pension Fund". (Ord. 98-06, 6-16-
1998)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-13-2: BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Definitions: That for the purpose of this Chapter, the term "police"
and "Board" or "Board of Trustees" are defined, respectively, as full-time
police officers or full-time police officers entitled to participate in the
benefits of said Pension Fund as provided by said article 3 of said Illinois
Pension Code and the Board of Trustees of said Pension Fund.
   B.   Appointment; Election Of Members: The Board shall be appointed and
elected as provided by article 3 of the Illinois Pension Code and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties that shall be required of them by
law. That the rights, powers, duties and functions of said Board and the
members thereof, as such, and the rights and benefits of the various
beneficiaries of the Pension Fund shall be and are hereby declared to be in
accordance with the law and particularly of article 3 of the Illinois Pension
Code and all amendments thereof. (Ord. 98-06, 6-16-1998)
1-13-3: DISPOSITION OF MONIES:
All monies and securities belonging to the Fund shall be held by the Village
Treasurer subject to the order of the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund. An
annual list of beneficiaries and report of funds shall be made as required by
law. Members of the Board of Trustees of the Pension Fund shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 98-06, 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 14
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-14-1: Adoption Of Act
1-14-2: Prohibited Acts
1-14-3: Penalty For Violations
1-14-4: General Effectiveness
1-14-1: ADOPTION OF ACT:
The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq., (referred
to in this chapter as the "act") are hereby adopted by reference and made
applicable to the officers and employees of the village to the extent required
by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 04-08, 5-18-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10–10-40.
1-14-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or employee of the village, is hereby
prohibited.
   B.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to any
officer or employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   C.   The participation in political activities prohibited for any officer or
employee of the village under the act is hereby prohibited.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 04-
08, 5-18-2004)
1-14-3: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
The penalties for violations of section
1-14-2 of this chapter shall be the same as those penalties set forth in 5
Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar violations of the act. (Ord.
04-08, 5-18-2004)
1-14-4: GENERAL EFFECTIVENESS:
   A.   This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees; provided that to the extent that any such existing ordinances or
policies are less restrictive than the act, the provisions of the act shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   B.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this chapter shall, without formal action by the village board, be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to the
solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities; provided, however, that any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this chapter by reference without formal action by the village board.
   C.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be deemed repealed, without further action by
the village board, as of the date that the Illinois supreme court's decision
becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or rehearings. If the
Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional but upholds
the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not address the
remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by this chapter
shall remain in full force and effect, and only that part of this chapter
relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed
without further action by the village board. (Ord. 04-08, 5-18-2004)
CHAPTER 15
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
SECTION:
1-15-1: Journal Of Proceedings Imposed
1-15-2: Records Of Closed Meetings
1-15-3: Destruction Of Verbatim Record
1-15-1: JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS IMPOSED:
The village clerk shall keep a journal of the proceedings of the board of
trustees at its regular meetings and at any special or special emergency
meetings, including closed meetings. A copy of the proceedings of the last
regular, special meeting or special emergency meeting that was open to the
public shall be supplied to the village president and each member of the board
of trustees by including such copy as part of the member's next regular meeting
agenda packet. (Ord. 08-16, 7-15-2008)
1-15-2: RECORDS OF CLOSED MEETINGS:
The village clerk shall also keep a verbatim record of each closed meeting of
the board of trustees in the form of an audio recording, whether such closed
meeting occurs at a regular, special or special emergency meeting. The village
clerk shall secure such verbatim records in a safe place where they shall be
kept in confidentiality until the board of trustees authorizes their release or
destruction in accordance with the open meetings act 1  and section
1-15-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-16, 7-15-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-15-3: DESTRUCTION OF VERBATIM RECORD:
The board of trustees may consider the destruction of the verbatim record of
any particular closed meeting at any regular meeting. The board of trustees
shall consider whether to authorize destruction of the verbatim record of a
particular closed meeting as part of its consent agenda, which shall include
the following item for consideration, as an omnibus vote:
AUTHORIZATION FOR DESTRUCTION OF THE VERBATIM RECORD OF THE CLOSED MEETING HELD
ON            , AS NO LESS THAN EIGHTEEN (18) MONTHS HAVE PASSED AND MINUTES
HAVE BEEN APPROVED FOR SUCH MEETING.
A favorable vote shall be deemed to authorize the village clerk to destroy the
verbatim record of such closed meeting in a suitable manner. No vote to destroy
the verbatim record of any particular closed meeting shall be taken unless the
following have occurred:
   A.   The board of trustees has approved the minutes of the closed meeting as
in conformance with the requirements of the open meetings act, regardless of
whether the minutes have been released for public review; and
   B.   No less than eighteen (18) months have passed since the completion of
the closed meeting record. (Ord. 08-16, 7-15-2008)
CHAPTER 16
IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY
SECTION:
1-16-1: Purpose
1-16-2: Prohibited Acts
1-16-3: Exclusions From Prohibitions
1-16-4: Freedom Of Information Act Requests
1-16-5: Applicability
1-16-6: Identity Protection Procedures
1-16-7: Distribution Of Policy
1-16-1: PURPOSE:
This policy, effective July 1, 2010, is adopted pursuant to the identity
protection act 1  to protect social security numbers from unauthorized
disclosure. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.
1-16-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No village of Wayne employee may do any of the following:
   A.   Publicly post or publicly display or otherwise intentionally
communicate or otherwise intentionally make available to the general public in
any manner an individual's social security number.
   B.   Print an individual's social security number on any card required for
the individual to access products or services provided by the village of Wayne.
   C.   Require an individual to transmit his or her social security number
over the internet, unless the connection is secure or the social security
number is encrypted.
   D.   Print an individual's social security number on any materials that are
mailed to the individual, through the U.S. postal service, any private mail
service, electronic mail or any similar method of delivery, unless state or
federal law requires the social security number to be on the document to be
mailed. Notwithstanding any provision in this section to the contrary, social
security numbers may be included in applications and forms sent by mail,
including, but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the
administration of the unemployment insurance act, any material mailed in
connection with any tax administered by the Illinois department of revenue, and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend or terminate an account, contract or policy or to confirm the accuracy of
the social security number. A social security number that may permissibly be
mailed under this section may not be printed, in whole or in part, on a
postcard or other mailer that does not require an envelope or be visible on an
envelope without the envelope having been opened.
   E.   Collect, use or disclose a social security number from an individual,
unless:
      1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules or regulations,
or the collection, use or disclosure of the social security number is otherwise
necessary for the performance of the village's duties and responsibilities;
      2.   The need and purpose for the social security number is documented
before collection of the social security number; and
      3.   The social security number collected is relevant to the documented
need and purpose.
   F.   Require an individual to use his or her social security number to
access an internet website.
   G.   Use the social security number for any purpose other than the purpose
for which it was collected.
   H.   Encode or embed a social security number in or on a card or document,
including, but not limited to, using a bar code, chip, magnetic strip, RFID
technology or other technology, in place of removing the social security number
as required by this policy. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
1-16-3: EXCLUSIONS FROM PROHIBITIONS:
The above listed prohibitions do not apply in the following circumstances:
   A.   The disclosure of social security numbers to agents, employees,
contractors or subcontractors of a governmental entity or disclosure by a
governmental entity to another governmental entity or its agents, employees,
contractors or subcontractors if disclosure is necessary in order for the
entity to perform its duties and responsibilities; and, if disclosing to a
contractor or subcontractor, prior to such disclosure, the governmental entity
must first receive from the contractor or subcontractor a copy of the
contractor's or subcontractor's policy that sets forth how the requirements
imposed under the identity protection act on a governmental entity to protect
an individual's social security number will be achieved.
   B.   The disclosure of social security numbers pursuant to a court order,
warrant or subpoena.
   C.   The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers in order
to ensure the safety of: state and local government employees; persons
committed to correctional facilities, local jails and other law enforcement
facilities or retention centers; wards of the state; and all persons working in
or visiting a state or local government agency facility.
   D.   The collection, use or disclosure of social security numbers for
internal verification or administrative purposes.
   E.   The disclosure of social security numbers by a state agency to any
entity for the collection of delinquent child support or of any state debt or
to a governmental agency to assist with an investigation or the prevention of
fraud.
   F.   The collection or use of social security numbers to investigate or
prevent fraud, to conduct background checks, to collect a debt, to obtain a
credit report from a consumer reporting agency under the federal fair credit
report act, to undertake any permissible purpose that is enumerated under the
federal Gramm Leach Bliley act, or to locate a missing person, a lost relative
or a person who is due a benefit, such as a pension benefit or an unclaimed
property benefit. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
1-16-4: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT REQUESTS:
Consistent with Illinois freedom of information act, village employees must
redact social security numbers from information or documents being supplied to
the public pursuant to a freedom of information act request before allowing the
public inspection or copying of the information or documents. (Res. 10R-11, 6-
23-2010)
1-16-5: APPLICABILITY:
This policy does not apply to the collection, use or disclosure of a social
security number as required by state or federal law, rule or regulation.
This policy does not apply to documents that are recorded with a county
recorder or required to be open to the public under any state or federal law,
rule or regulation, applicable case law, supreme court rule or the constitution
of the state of Illinois.
If a federal law takes effect requiring any federal agency to establish a
national unique patient health identifier program, any village employee that
complies with the federal law shall be deemed to be in compliance with this
policy. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
1-16-6: IDENTITY PROTECTION PROCEDURES:
All village employees having access to social security numbers in the course of
performing their duties shall be trained to protect the confidentiality of
social security numbers. The training shall include instructions on the proper
handling of information that contains social security numbers from the time of
collection through the destruction of the information.
Only those village employees who are required to use or handle information or
documents that contain social security numbers shall have access to such
information or documents.
Social security numbers required from an individual shall be provided in a
manner that makes the social security number easily redacted if required to be
released as part of a public records request.
When collecting a social security number, or upon request by the individual, a
statement of the purpose or purposes for which the village of Wayne is
collecting and using the social security number shall be provided to the
individual. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
1-16-7: DISTRIBUTION OF POLICY:
A written copy of this policy has been provided to the president and board of
trustees.
Each current village employee shall be provided and shall acknowledge receipt
of a copy of this policy. Each employee hereinafter hired by the village shall
be provided and shall acknowledge receipt of a copy of this policy upon
commencing his or her employment. A copy of this policy shall be made available
to any member of the public, upon request. If the village of Wayne amends this
policy, a written copy of the amended policy shall be filed with the president
and board of trustees, shall also advise all village employees of the existence
of the amended policy and make a copy of the amended policy available to each
of its employees. The acknowledged copy of this policy shall be filed and
maintained in each village employee's personnel file. (Res. 10R-11, 6-23-2010)
CHAPTER 17
TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENTS
SECTION:
1-17-1: Purpose
1-17-2: Definitions
1-17-3: Allowed Reimbursement Costs
1-17-4: Reimbursements That Exceed Maximum
1-17-5: Approval Of Corporate Authorities
1-17-6: Entertainment
1-17-7: Emergency
1-17-8: Reimbursement Form
1-17-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide broad guidelines to officers
(elected and appointed board and commission members) and employees (including
part time employees) of the village for incurring and reimbursing expenses
connected with village business in accordance with applicable regulations and
sound business practices. This chapter governs expenses incurred during village
travel, as well as expenses incurred locally in connection with village
business. Wilful violation or abuse of this chapter, including falsifying
expense reports to reflect costs not actually incurred, will result in adverse
action being taken pursuant to village policies, rules, ordinances, and
applicable state and federal laws. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the
village of Wayne from pursuing all available remedies. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements, theaters,
circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event which is being attended on behalf of the village and in furtherance of
village business.
TRAVEL EXPENSE: Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by
employees and officers of the village or by representatives of the village
involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies
providing transportation or related services. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-3: ALLOWED REIMBURSEMENT COSTS:
The village shall only reimburse the actual costs of travel, meals, lodging,
and other expenses directly related to accomplishing business travel objectives
and subject to the provisions listed:
   A.   Costs of public transportation for ground travel and taxi fares (only
when there is no less expensive alternative). The maximum reimbursement shall
be one hundred percent (100%) of the actual cost of the fare not to exceed
twenty dollars ($20.00);
   B.   Mileage costs and required tolls for use of personal cars, only when
less expensive transportation is not available. The maximum reimbursement shall
be at the rate established by the most recent department of the treasurer,
internal revenue service's bulletin. When two (2) or more officers or employees
travel in the same private vehicle, reimbursements shall be made only to the
owner of the vehicle;
   C.   Cost of conference hotel accommodations or standard accommodations in
low to mid priced hotels, motels, or similar lodgings. The maximum
reimbursement shall be at the current rates set forth by the U.S. general
services administration. Specific dates of lodging must be listed and
substantiated by an itemized receipt from a commercial lodging establishment.
Only charges for room and tax will be reimbursed, up to the maximum
reimbursable rate as is set forth herein. Tips for room service, other hotel
services, and additional personal expenses will not be reimbursable. Employees
or officials sharing a room with a nonvillage individual (including family
members) are responsible for reporting and requiring reimbursement of lodging
expenses at single occupancy rates;
   D.   Charges for telephone calls, fax, and similar services required for
business purposes. The maximum reimbursement shall be one hundred percent
(100%) of the cost of the business expense incurred;
   E.   If an overnight stay is required, a per diem reimbursement may be
available. The maximum reimbursement shall be at the maximum per diem rates as
published by the U.S. general services administration; and
   F.   Meal expenses for officers or employees may also be claimed if they are
incurred for the purpose of advancing a village business relationship, are
within the bounds of good taste and moderation. Reimbursement for meals shall
be based on the actual cost of the meal plus a gratuity. A receipt listing the
business purpose and those in attendance will be required for reimbursement of
meal costs. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-4: REIMBURSEMENTS THAT EXCEED MAXIMUM:
Before travel expense reimbursement can be approved that exceeds the maximum
amount allowed for an officer or employee the following documentation must be
submitted:
   A.   An estimate of the cost(s) of travel, meals, or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of travel, meals or lodging if
the expenses have already been incurred;
   B.   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the travel,
meal, or lodging expense;
   C.   The job title or office of the individual who received or is requesting
the travel, meal, or lodging expense; and
   D.   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which the
travel, meal, or lodging expense was or will be expended. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-
2016)
1-17-5: APPROVAL OF CORPORATE AUTHORITIES:
Travel expense reimbursement that exceeds the travel expense reimbursement
regulations shall not be approved except by an approving roll call vote of an
open meeting of the corporate authorities. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-6: ENTERTAINMENT:
The village shall not provide reimbursement for any item of entertainment. The
village shall not reimburse expenses for alcoholic beverages regardless of the
business purpose. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-7: EMERGENCY:
In the event of an emergency or extraordinary circumstance, reimbursement may
be approved by a majority of the corporate authorities at a regularly scheduled
open meeting subject to a roll call vote. (Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
1-17-8: REIMBURSEMENT FORM:
The following form will be used in conjunction with requesting travel and
expense approval and reimbursement. Reports should be accompanied by receipts
for all individual expenses.
      VILLAGE OF WAYNE TRAVEL AUTHORIZATION
      AND EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT FORM
I.   GENERAL INFORMATION
Name:                                     Title:          
Signature:                                     (Note: your signature serves as
verification of the information set forth herein)
Purpose of Travel or Expense Incurred:
Destination/Venue in Which Expense Was Incurred:
II.   EXPENSES:
   A. For Travel
   Number of Days:        Departure Date:        Return Date:    
   Public Transportation (Ground Travel)/Taxi:      
   Mileage:       
   Hotel/Lodging:       
   Conference Fees:       
   Meals:      
   B. Miscellaneous Reimbursements:
   Sustenance:       
Incidentals (e.g. telephone calls, fax, copying for Village business):       
III.   Total Reimbursement Sought:    
Approval:                                     Date:          
(Ord. 16-17, 12-20-2016)
CHAPTER 18
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-18-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-18-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-18-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-18-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-18-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-18-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-18-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of the Village of Wayne to prohibit harassment of
any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
1-18-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   B.   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
1-18-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/
himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s)
as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a Department Head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this chapter is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
1-18-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
   A.   No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal
agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal
employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
chapter,
      2.   Provision of information related to or testimony before any public
body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of this
chapter, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this chapter.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
   B.   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection
from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-18-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this chapter or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
1-18-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 17-17, 12-5-2017)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established
2-1-2: Powers And Duties
2-1-3: Term; Compensation
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements for the Village,
which shall consist of the Village President and two (2) members of the Board
of Trustees, and two (2) additional members. The President and Board of
Trustees shall designate, by ordinance, and appoint all of the members of the
Board of Local Improvements other than the president thereof. The Village
President of the Board of Trustees shall be President of the Board of Local
Improvements.
The Board of Local Improvements may appoint a secretary who shall keep all
records of the Board of Local Improvements, and shall perform such other duties
as may be required of him by the Board of Local Improvements, or by statute or
ordinance. (Ord. 65-05, 6-19-1965)
2-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Board of Local Improvements shall have all the powers and duties granted to
it by Article 9 of the Illinois Municipal Code, and all amendments thereto 1 .
It shall keep adequate records of all of its proceedings and all work
undertaken by it. (Ord. 65-05, 6-19-1965)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-7.
2-1-3: TERM; COMPENSATION:
The members of the Board of Local Improvements shall serve without compensation
and shall serve for terms expiring on the day of the general Municipal election
in April of each odd-numbered year, and until their successors shall have been
appointed and qualified. (Ord. 65-05, 6-19-1965; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Created
2-2-2: Appointment Of Members
2-2-3: Meetings
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Jurisdiction Regarding Zoning Ordinance
2-2-6: Appendix I, Rules Of Procedure
2-2-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established a Plan Commission for the Village, consisting of
seven (7) members to serve respectively for the following terms: initially, one
member for one year; two (2) for two (2) years; two (2) for three (3) years;
and two (2) for four (4) years. Thereafter, the successor to each member so
appointed to serve for a term of four (4) years, or the remainder of the term
of the member being replaced, whichever is less. All persons appointed shall
serve until a successor is appointed and qualified. As hereafter provided, one
member will serve as chairman. For the purpose of establishing the dates of
appointment or reappointment, the effective date of initial appointments will
be June 1, 1989. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
All appointments to the Plan Commission and to the position of chairman shall
be made by the Village President, subject to the approval of the Village Board
of Trustees. The member appointed to the position of chairman shall be so
appointed to that position for a term of one year. The Village President,
subject to approval by the Village Board of Trustees, shall have the power to
remove, after a public hearing, any member of the Plan Commission, for cause.
Failure to attend three (3) successive regular meetings of the Commission or
less than one-half (1/2) of the regular meetings of the Commission in a
calendar year shall constitute sufficient cause for removal. Vacancies shall be
filled as soon as possible for the unexpired term of any member whose place has
become vacant. In the event that the office of chairman is vacated for any
reason, the Village President shall immediately appoint, at his option, either
one of the remaining members on the Commission, or any member who is appointed
to fill such vacancy on the Commission as the new chairman. Such appointment
shall be subject to the approval of the Village Board of Trustees at its next
regular meeting. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
2-2-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   Time: All meetings of the Plan Commission shall be held at the call
of the chairman and at such other times as the Commission may determine 1 .
      2.   Meetings Open To Public: All meetings of the Commission shall be
open to the public, at which time every person has the right to be heard or to
be represented by a duly authorized agent or attorney. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
      3.   Records: The Commission shall designate a person to serve as
secretary, and shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that
fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions. In every case the Commission shall include in its official report the
reasons a request for an amendment or special use is granted or denied. Every
requirement, finding, decision or determination of the Commission shall
immediately be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be of public
record. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
      4.   Testimony Of Witnesses: All testimony by witnesses at any hearing
provided for in the Zoning Ordinance 2  or by statute shall be given under
oath. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   B.   Voting: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Plan Commission
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of the Plan Commission or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is authorized by the Zoning Ordinance to render a decision. The
Plan Commission shall make no recommendations except in a specific case and
after public hearing.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The Plan Commission shall adopt and publish in
pamphlet form rules of procedure for the conduct of its business. Such rules of
procedure shall be subject to approval of the Village Board and shall not be
inconsistent with any of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance. These rules of
procedure following this Chapter. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection
1 1-5-2D of this Code and Section
  2-2-6, Article V of this Chapter.
2 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Plan Commission shall have the following powers:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees a
comprehensive plan of public improvements looking to the present and future
development of the Village 1 . After its adoption by the President and Board of
Trustees, this plan shall be known as the official plan of the Village.
Thereafter from time to time the Plan Commission may recommend changes in the
official plan. This plan may include reasonable requirements with reference to
streets, alleys, and public grounds in unsubdivided land situated within the
Village limits or in contiguous territory not more than one and one-half (11/2)
miles beyond the Village limits and not included in any municipality. These
requirements shall be effective whenever this unsubdivided land is subdivided
after the adoption of the official plan.
   B.   To prepare and recommend to the President and Board of Trustees from
time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
plan.
   C.   To give aid to the Village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
   D.   To consult with any residents of the Village, residents of the area
adjacent to the Village, officials of neighboring municipalities, township and
county officials, independent consultants, or other persons who, in the opinion
of the Commission may be of assistance to it, except that the Commission shall
have no power to render the Village financially liable to any such person.
(Ord. 59-04, 5-1-1959)
   E.   To exercise all other powers provided in this Code and by State law.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  10-1-3 of this Code.
2-2-5: JURISDICTION REGARDING ZONING ORDINANCE:
The Village Plan Commission, which has been duly established with functions as
prescribed by the appropriate statutes of the State Illinois, is the Plan
Commission referred to in the Zoning Ordinance. The Plan Commission is hereby
designated as the proper commission or committee to post public notices as
required by statute and the Zoning Ordinance pertaining to applications for
special uses and amendments to the regulations imposed and the districts
created by said Zoning Ordinance, and shall have the following duties under
said Ordinance 1 :
   A.   To receive from the Village Clerk copies of all applications for
amendments or special uses which have been introduced to the Village Board;
   B.   To hold public hearings in matters pertaining to applications for
special uses and amendments, and submit reports to the Village Board setting
forth its findings and recommendations in the manner prescribed in the Zoning
Ordinance for special uses and amendments;
   C.   To initiate, direct and review from time to time studies of the
provisions of the Zoning Ordinance and to make reports of its recommendations
to the Village Board not less frequently than once each year; and
   D.   To hear and decide all matters upon which it is required to pass under
the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
 
Notes
1 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
2-2-6: APPENDIX I, RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   APPENDIX I
   VILLAGE OF WAYNE PLAN COMMISSION
   RULES OF PROCEDURE
ARTICLE I. NAME:
This commission shall be known as the village of Wayne plan commission,
hereinafter referred to as the commission. The commission's powers are granted
by village ordinances and chapters 65 and 765 of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes.
ARTICLE II. DUTIES:
The commission is responsible for the principles and enforcement of land use
controls for the village of Wayne. In carrying out this task, the commission
must be knowledgeable of and balance between community and individual rights to
the benefit of all the people. The day-to-day operations of the commission
include:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a comprehensive
plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of the village.
   B.   To recommend, from time to time, changes in the official comprehensive
plan.
   C.   To review land use applications and recommend to the corporate
authorities whether such applications should be approved or denied.
   D.   To review and comment on such actions and developments that have the
potential of affecting the present or future orderly development of the village
of Wayne.
ARTICLE III. SEPARABILITY:
Should any section or provision of these procedures be declared by any court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the procedure as a whole or any part thereof other than the part so
declared invalid.
Should any section or provision of these procedures be incorrectly followed,
such action shall not affect the validity of the commission's action or the
procedures as a whole or any part thereof.
ARTICLE IV. MEMBERSHIP AND OFFICERS:
The plan commission of the village shall consist of the president who shall be
an ex officio member, and seven (7) additional members who shall be appointed
by the president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
The following officers of the commission are appointed by the president with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees:
   A.   A chairperson, who shall supervise the affairs of the commission. He
shall preside at all meetings of the commission and shall appoint such
committees as shall be necessary to carry out the purposes of the commission.
The chairperson shall be an ex officio member of all committees so appointed.
   B.   A vice chairperson, who shall perform such duties as may be delegated
to him by the chairperson. In the absence or disability of the chairperson, he
shall perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of the chairperson.
   C.   A secretary, who shall oversee the records of the commission, including
minutes of all commission meetings, public hearing records and exhibits, and
any other records of the commission. He shall perform such other duties as
shall be delegated to him by the chairperson.
All records of the commission shall be maintained and kept at the village hall
and shall be available to the public in accordance with the freedom of
information act.
In the absence of the chairperson and vice chairperson, an acting chairperson
shall be appointed by the majority of those present.
ARTICLE V. MEETINGS:
   Regular Meeting Times
The commission shall meet once a month, on the first Monday of the month, in
accordance with applicable provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes and
village ordinances. All meetings will start at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.
at the Wayne Village Hall, or other location as determined by the chairperson
in advance of the meeting.
   Special Meetings
Special meetings may be called by the president, chairperson or by any two (2)
members of the commission in accordance with applicable provisions of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes and village ordinances.
   Quorum
A simple majority of the plan commission shall constitute a quorum. Final
action shall be taken upon measures before the plan commission with the
concurrence of a simple majority of the members present provided a quorum is
present.
   Attendance
Plan commission members are expected to attend all meetings to assure that they
are well informed before voting on recommendations to the village board. If a
member will not be able to attend a meeting, the member should notify the
chairperson as soon as possible. If the chairperson determines that a quorum (4
members) may not be present, he may cancel the meeting.
If a member fails to notify the chairperson of nonattendance at three (3)
consecutive meetings, the chairperson should contact the member to determine
the cause and to assess the member's willingness to continue as a commission
member. If for some reason the member is unwilling or unable to complete his
term in office, a written letter of resignation to the president is in order.
The village attorney or his designee shall serve as legal advisor to the
commission and as parliamentarian at all meetings of the commission.
ARTICLE VI. RULES GOVERNING THE RIGHT TO SPEAK AT MEETINGS:
   A.   General:
      1.   Statutory Authorization For Rules: The open meetings act 1  provides
that, effective January 1, 2011, any person shall be permitted an opportunity
to address the plan commission (the "commission") under rules established by
the commission. The portions of these rules relating to public participation
are promulgated pursuant thereto; the remainder of these rules are promulgated
pursuant to the Illinois municipal code 2  and subsection
2-2-3C of this chapter.
      2.   Right To Speak: All persons wishing to address the commission may do
so subject to compliance with these rules, unless compliance is waived by the
commission.
      3.   Public Participation; Applicability Of Rules:
         a.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Applies: The right of the
public to address the commission and these rules shall apply at the following
meetings:
            (1)   Regular meetings of the commission that are open to the
public; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission that are open to the
public if the agenda provides for public comment.
         b.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Does Not Apply: The public
shall have no right to address the commission at the following meetings:
            (1)   Those meetings or portions of meetings of the commission
(whether regular or special meetings) that are closed to the public in
accordance with the open meetings act; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission that are open to the
public if the agenda does not provide for public comment.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Compliance: It shall be a violation of these rules for any person to
address or attempt to address any meeting of the commission except in
compliance with limitations and restrictions imposed in these rules. Public
participation shall be permitted at commission meetings or hearings as follows:
         a.   Under public comment if such an item appears on the agenda.
         b.   At the time of the commission's discussion of any item that
appears on the agenda at a time designated for such comment by the chairperson.
         c.   At a public hearing during the time permitted for questions,
testimony or comments from the public.
         d.   At the time designated or requested by the chairperson for
invited speakers.
      2.   Limitations: The chairperson of the commission may impose reasonable
limitations on public participation at commission meetings to allow for
consideration of the entire agenda, and to assure that all who wish to speak
have an opportunity to do so and are treated with respect. Unless extended for
a time certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission, the
following limitations shall apply, and the chairperson reserves the right to
halt or suspend the public participation or hearing to a later date if the
rules are not being followed:
         a.   In general, all speakers shall be limited to no more than three
(3) minutes.
         b.   The chairperson may bar repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or
inappropriate comments or testimony.
         c.   Persons wishing to speak during any portion of the commission
meeting shall sign in before the start of the meeting stating their name and
the topic to be discussed. These rules shall be posted at the speaker sign-in
table.
         d.   Speakers shall be called by name before addressing the commission
and will identify themselves before beginning their comments. Speakers will
state their position on the issue, and may provide supporting documentation
and/or evidence.
         e.   Speakers shall refrain from engaging in debates or directing
threats or personal attacks at the commission, staff, other speakers or members
of the audience.
         f.   Groups should, whenever possible, consolidate their comments and
avoid repetition through the use of representative speakers.
         g.   Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding, cheering,
booing or the like during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member or commission member.
   C.   Agenda Participation (Excluding Public Hearings): Public participation
related to agenda items will be in the following order:
      1.   The petitioner for an agenda item is the person or entity with a
financial or ownership interest in the matter or property that is the subject
of an item on the commission's agenda. The petitioner may present its petition
for no more than ten (10) minutes. Following public participation, the
petitioner will have no more than five (5) minutes to reply to the comments
made or questions asked.
      2.   Speakers may comment on the agenda item or may present questions to
the commission provided they comply with the limitations established in
subsections B2a through B2g of this article.
      3.   The public participation portion of the agenda item shall be subject
to a total limitation of thirty (30) minutes, unless extended for a time
certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission. Public
participation after the petitioner's reply shall be prohibited unless the
commission otherwise expressly permits further public comment by a majority
vote.
      4.   If an item on the commission's agenda is tabled after public
participation has occurred, and the same item contains no significant changes
when discussed at the subsequent meeting date, there will be no public
participation portion for such agenda item at such subsequent meeting.
      5.   Commission members may, but need not, ask questions of the
petitioner and speakers at the conclusion of their comments.
      6.   Following the presentation by the petitioner, public participation,
and any questions from the commission, the commission may deliberate as to any
action to be taken. No additional comment may be made by the public or the
petitioner except upon the express request or permission of a majority of the
members of the commission.
   D.   Invited Speakers: Any person may address the commission by invitation
of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the commission who are
present. Speakers invited to participate shall be subject to such limitations
as the chairperson or a majority of the commission shall prescribe. In the
absence of other restrictions, such speakers shall be governed by the same
rules which govern public participation generally.
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g).
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 et seq.
ARTICLE VII. ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The order of business at regular meetings shall be:
   A.   Call to order
   B.   Public hearing(s)
Hearing procedures
   C.   Meeting
      1.   Opening
      2.   Roll call
      3.   Approval of minutes
      4.   Public comment
      5.   Old business
      6.   New business
      7.   Reports/memoranda
      8.   Additional business
      9.   Meeting announcements
      10.   Adjournment
ARTICLE VIII. PETITION PROCESS:
   Applications
General Zoning Amendment: Text change; request for change in the zoning
ordinance.
Map Amendment: A request for change in the zoning district classification of a
specific land parcel.
Special Use Application: A request for a special use within a zoning district
as set forth in the zoning ordinance.
Planned Unit Development Application: A particular type of special use which
allows for flexibility and creativity. The land is developed as a unified
parcel under the zoning and subdivision regulations.
Subdivision Application: A process for dividing a parcel of land into two (2)
or more lots.
   Submittal Times
To be submitted thirty five (35) days prior to the commission public hearing:
   General zoning amendments
   Map amendments
   Special use applications
   Special use applications/planned unit development
   Planned unit development (with existing special use)
      Concept (at the option of the applicant)
      Preliminary
      Final
To be submitted twenty one (21) days prior to the commission meeting:
   Subdivision plan
      Preliminary
      Engineering
      Final
The commission may in its discretion waive the time limits of this article
provided legal notice requirements are met.
State statutes requirements:
   A.   The commission shall approve or disapprove the application for
preliminary approval within ninety (90) days from the date of the application
or the filing by the applicant of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
   B.   Application for final approval of a plat shall be made not later than
one year after preliminary approval has been granted.
   C.   Upon the submission of all requirements, the village shall approve the
final plat within sixty (60) days from the date of the application or the
filing by the applicant of the last required document, whichever date is later,
unless such time is extended by mutual consent.
On December 1 of each year, the village will prepare a listing of commission
meetings and application submittal deadlines.
If an application is not complete on the submittal date, the application will
be returned and not considered until the following submittal date.
ARTICLE IX. CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS:
   Public Hearing Times
Public hearings will start at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.
The chairperson with the approval of the commission, may change or continue the
regular public hearing date and time. The chairperson shall direct the
secretary, the village attorney or the village clerk to cause all required
legal notices to be published.
   Testimony
All interested parties may appear for themselves or be represented by a person
of their choosing. Written statements will be accepted prior to or at the
hearing to be entered into the public hearing record.
All witnesses to material facts shall testify under oath, to be administered by
the chair. Persons desiring to ask questions only shall not be required to be
sworn.
The chairperson may limit testimony to a specific amount of time in order to
hear all persons desiring to testify.
The commission is not bound by the strict rules of evidence, but the
chairperson may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly
repetitious testimony or evidence.
Formal cross examination of any witness giving testimony before the commission,
including the petitioner, shall be allowed but shall be subject to the rulings
of the chairperson as to relevance, materiality and proper form of questioning.
Informal questioning of any witness giving testimony shall be allowed so long
as good order and respect for the witness can be maintained.
The limitations applicable to public participation at commission meetings other
than public hearings, as established in subsections B2a through B2g of article
VI, shall generally apply to public hearings.
   Transcript
All proceedings at any public hearing shall be on the record before a court
reporter, public stenographer or certified shorthand reporter, if requested in
writing by the applicant, by the village, by the chairperson or any member of
the plan commission or by any other interested party not less than five (5)
business days prior to the public hearing or any continuation thereof.
A complete transcript for each public hearing will not be required unless
requested by not less than three (3) commission members or three (3) village
board members. For distribution for the next regular commission meeting, the
request must be made prior to or at the close of the public hearing.
The cost of such transcript or any attendance fee of the court reporter, public
stenographer or certified shorthand reporter shall be paid by and be the
responsibility of the applicant, except that if the court reporter, public
stenographer or certified shorthand reporter is present at the written request
of an interested party other than the applicant, the village or the plan
commission, such interested party shall be responsible for the payment of any
attendance fees and shall submit a cash deposit in the amount of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) at the time of written request for such reporter, public
stenographer or certified shorthand reporter, together with an agreement to pay
all attendance fees.
   Order Of Business For Public Hearings
The order of business for public hearings shall be as follows:
   A.   Call to order and roll call.
   B.   The chairperson will open the public hearing for a particular matter,
giving a brief summary of the petition.
   C.   The chairperson will present a brief explanation of the order of
business for the public hearing and the rules governing public participation in
the hearing.
   D.   The chairperson will swear in those wishing to give testimony.
   E.   The applicant will present its petition, including its application and
any exhibits on which its presentation will rely. All exhibits will be marked
and identified or titled by the secretary and numbered as appropriate.
   F.   The public may ask questions of the petitioner.
   G.   The public may offer testimony in favor of the petition or portions
thereof.
   H.   The public may offer testimony objecting to the petition or portions
thereof.
   I.   The petitioner may offer a short rebuttal to the public comments.
   J.   The commission may ask questions of the petitioner or members of the
public, and may make comments concerning the petition.
   K.   The hearing will be closed or continued by approval of a motion of the
commission. Continuances should generally only occur if there was a procedural
error or if new or additional testimony is forthcoming.
   L.   The board may take a vote concerning a decision as to the petition.
ARTICLE X. FINAL DISPOSITION:
The final disposition of any application will be a recommendation setting forth
the findings and determinations of the commission, together with any
modifications, conditions or limitations made as allowed by ordinance or
statute.
The recommendations will be in the form of a motion clearly stating the
findings and determinations.
ARTICLE XI. COMMITTEES:
(Reserved For Future Use)
ARTICLE XII. CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No member of the commission shall participate in any case in which he has a
personal or pecuniary interest in the property or action concerned, or will be
directly affected by the decision, or has or believes he has any other conflict
of interest as defined by Illinois Compiled Statutes.
ARTICLE XIII. AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to these rules of procedure may be made by the commission at any
regular or special meeting upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the
members of the commission, prior to which the proposed rules or amendments have
been distributed to all members of the commission five (5) days in advance of
said meeting. The suspension of any rule may be ordered at any meeting by a
unanimous vote of the quorum.
The foregoing rules and regulations are hereby adopted by the village of Wayne
plan commission on this 10th day of April, 1989.
(Ord. 89-07, 5-8-1989; amd. Ord. 93-28, 10-19-1993; Ord. 14-05, 4-1-2014; Ord.
14-22, 11-18-2014; Ord. 15-01, 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created
2-3-2: Appointment Of Members
2-3-3: Meetings
2-3-4: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-3-5: Appeal Procedure For Zoning And Building Director Decisions
2-3-6: Appendix I, Rules For Public Participation
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby established a zoning board of appeals for the village. Said
board shall consist of seven (7) members to serve respectively for the
following terms: Initially, one member for one year; two (2) for two (2) years;
two (2) for three (3) years; two (2) for four (4) years. Thereafter, the
successor to each member so appointed to serve for a term of four (4) years, or
the remainder of the term of the member being replaced, whichever is less. All
persons appointed shall serve until a successor is appointed and qualified. As
hereafter provided, one member will serve as chairman. For the purpose of
establishing the dates of appointment or reappointments the effective date of
initial appointments will be June 1, 1989. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
2-3-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
All appointments to the zoning board of appeals and to the position of chairman
shall be made by the village president, subject to the approval of the village
board of trustees. The member appointed to the position of chairman shall be so
appointed to that position for a term of one year. The village president,
subject to approval by the village board of trustees, shall have the power to
remove, after a public hearing, any member of the zoning board of appeals for
cause. Failure to attend two (2) successive regular meetings of the board shall
constitute sufficient cause for removal. Vacancies shall be filled as soon as
possible for the unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant. In
the event that the office of chairman is vacated for any reason, the village
president shall immediately appoint, at his option, either one of the remaining
members on the board, or any member who is appointed to fill such vacancy on
the board as the approval of the village board of trustees at its next regular
meeting. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
2-3-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   Meeting Schedule: The dates of the regular meetings of the zoning
board of appeals shall be as set forth in the annual meeting schedule or at the
call of the chair and as such other times as the board may determine 1 . (Ord.
02-14, 8-20-2002)
      2.   Open Public Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be open to the
public, at which time every person has the right to be heard or to be
represented by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
      3.   Records: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other
official actions. In every case the board shall include in its official report
the reasons a request for a variation is granted or denied. Every rule,
regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement,
decision or determination of the board shall immediately be filed in the office
of the village clerk and shall be of public record.
      4.   Testimony Of Witnesses: All testimony by witnesses at any hearing
provided for in the zoning ordinance 2  shall be given under oath. The
chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
   B.   Voting: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the zoning board of
appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the zoning enforcement officer, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is authorized by the zoning ordinance to
render a decision. The zoning board of appeals shall make no recommendations
except in a specific case and after public hearing.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The zoning board of appeals shall adopt and publish
in pamphlet form rules of procedure for the conduct of its business. Such rules
of procedure shall be subject to approval of the village board and shall not be
inconsistent with any of the provisions of the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 89-13,
5-16-1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-2E of this code.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
2-3-4: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The zoning board of appeals is hereby invested with the following jurisdiction
and authority:
   A.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the zoning enforcement officer under the zoning
ordinance;
   B.   To hear and submit findings and recommendations to the village board on
applications for variations from the terms provided in the zoning ordinance in
the manner and subject to the standards set forth in said zoning ordinance;
   C.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under said zoning ordinance; and (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   D.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the director of building and zoning under any of the
building codes or under the property maintenance code. (Ord. 00-19, 9-5-2000)
2-3-5: APPEAL PROCEDURE FOR ZONING AND BUILDING DIRECTOR DECISIONS:
   A.   Except for an citation issued pursuant to Section
1-4-5 of the Village Code, any applicant or person aggrieved by a Decision of
the Village Zoning and Building Director shall have the right to appeal the
decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals, Such appeal shall be requested by
filing a notice of appeal directly with the Zoning and Building Director and
the Zoning Board of Appeals. The notice of appeal shall be filed within forty-
five (45) days of the Village Zoning and Building Director's decision. The
notice of appeal, which may be on the Village's Land Use Application form, must
specify the applicant's grounds for appeal.
   B.   The Zoning and Building Director shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning
Board of Appeals all the papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
   C.   The filing of an appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Village Zoning and Building Director certifies
to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property. In this event the proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order which may be granted by the Zoning Board
of Appeals or by a circuit court upon application and notice to the officer
from whom the appeal is taken, and on due cause shown.
   D.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the appeal at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, but in no event shall the appeal be heard later
than forty-five (45) days from the date of the filing of the notice of appeal.
   E.   The applicant may appear in person or by agent or by attorney at the
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing.
   F.   Upon considering the record provided by the Village Zoning and Building
Director and the appeal provided by the applicant, the Zoning Board of Appeals
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the Village Zoning and Building Director as in
its opinion ought to be made in the premises and to that end has all the powers
of the Village Zoning and Building Director. However, the concurring vote of 4
members of the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to reverse an order,
requirement, decision, or determination of such the Village Zoning and Building
Director in favor of the applicant. Except where any provision of the Village
Code, or state statute, specifies that the action of the Zoning Board of
Appeals is a recommendation to the Village Board, or is subject to further
proceedings pursuant to Section
1-4-5 of the Village Code, all administrative decisions of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be deemed final and subject to judicial review pursuant to the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq., and all
amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 20-05, 4-21-2020)
2-3-6: APPENDIX I, RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
   APPENDIX I
   A.   General:
      1.   Statutory Authorization For Rules: The open meetings act 1  provides
that, effective January 1, 2011, any person shall be permitted an opportunity
to address the zoning board of appeals (the "board") under rules established by
the board. The portions of these rules relating to public participation are
promulgated pursuant thereto.
      2.   Right To Speak: All persons wishing to address the board may do so
subject to compliance with these rules, unless compliance is waived by the
board.
      3.   Public Participation; Applicability Of Rules:
         a.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Applies: The right of the
public to address the board and these rules shall apply at the following
meetings:
            (1)   Regular meetings of the board that are open to the public;
and
            (2)   Special meetings of the board that are open to the public if
the agenda provides for public comment.
         b.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Does Not Apply: The public
shall have no right to address the board at the following meetings:
            (1)   Those meetings or portions of meetings of the board (whether
regular or special meetings) that are closed to the public in accordance with
the open meetings act; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the board that are open to the public if
the agenda does not provide for public comment.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Compliance: It shall be a violation of these rules for any person to
address or attempt to address any meeting of the board except in compliance
with limitations and restrictions imposed in these rules. Public participation
shall be permitted at the board meetings as follows:
         a.   Under public comment if such an item appears on the agenda.
         b.   At the time of the board's discussion of any item that appears on
the agenda at a time designated for such comment by the chairperson.
         c.   At the time designated or requested by the chairperson for
invited speakers.
      2.   Limitations: The chairperson of the board may impose reasonable
limitations on public participation at the board meetings to allow for
consideration of the entire agenda, and to assure that all who wish to speak
have an opportunity to do so and are treated with respect. Unless extended for
a time certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the board, the
following limitations shall apply, and the chairperson reserves the right to
halt or suspend the public participation to a later date if the rules are not
being followed:
         a.   In general, all speakers shall be limited to no more than three
(3) minutes.
         b.   The chairperson may bar repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or
inappropriate comments or testimony.
         c.   Persons wishing to speak during any portion of the board meeting
shall sign in before the start of the meeting, stating their name and the topic
to be discussed. These rules shall be posted at the speaker sign-in table.
         d.   Speakers shall be called by name before addressing the board and
will identify themselves before beginning their comments. Speakers will state
their position on the issue, and may provide supporting documentation and/or
evidence.
         e.   Speakers shall refrain from engaging in debates and from
directing threats or personal attacks at the board, staff, other speakers or
members of the audience.
         f.   Groups should, whenever possible, consolidate their comments and
avoid repetition through the use of representative speakers.
         g.   Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding, cheering,
booing or the like during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member or board member.
   C.   Agenda Participation: Public participation related to agenda items will
be in the following order:
      1.   The petitioner for an agenda item, if any, is the person or entity
with a financial or ownership interest in the matter or property that is the
subject of an item on the board's agenda. The petitioner may present its
petition for no more than ten (10) minutes, unless extended for a time certain
by the chairperson or a majority vote of the board. Following public
participation, the petitioner will have no more than five (5) additional
minutes to reply to the comments made or questions asked.
      2.   Speakers may comment on any agenda item or may present questions to
the board provided they comply with the limitations established in subsections
B2a through B2g of this section.
      3.   The public participation portion of the agenda item shall be subject
to a total limitation of thirty (30) minutes, unless extended for a time
certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the board.
      4.   If an item on the board's agenda is tabled after public
participation has occurred, and the same item contains no significant changes
when discussed at the subsequent meeting date, there will be no public
participation portion for such agenda item at such subsequent meeting.
      5.   Board members may, but need not, ask questions of speakers at the
conclusion of their comments.
      6.   Following the presentation by a petitioner, if any, public
participation and any questions from the board, the board may deliberate
concerning any action to be taken. No additional comment may be made by the
public or the petitioner except upon the express request or permission of a
majority of the members of the board.
   D.   Invited Speakers: Any person may address the board by invitation of the
chairperson or a majority of the members of the board who are present. Speakers
invited to participate shall be subject to such limitations as the chairperson
or a majority of the board shall prescribe. In the absence of other
restrictions, such speakers shall be governed by the same rules which govern
public participation generally.
   E.   Public Hearings:
      1.   Testimony:
         a.   All interested parties may appear for themselves or be
represented by a person of their choosing. Written statements will be accepted
prior to or at the hearing and will be entered in the public hearing record.
         b.   All witnesses to material facts shall testify under oath to be
administered by the chairperson. Persons desiring to ask questions only shall
not be required to be sworn.
         c.   The chairperson may limit testimony to a specific amount of time
in order to hear all persons desiring to testify.
         d.   The board is not bound by the strict rules of evidence, but the
chairperson may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly
repetitious testimony or evidence.
         e.   Formal cross examination of any witness giving testimony before
the board, including the petitioner, shall be allowed but shall be subject to
the rulings of the chairperson as to relevance, materiality and proper form of
questioning. Informal questioning of any witness giving testimony shall be
allowed so long as good order and respect for the witness can be maintained.
         f.   The limitations applicable to public participation at board
meetings other than public hearings, as established in subsections B2a through
B2g of this section, shall generally apply to public hearings.
      2.   Order Of Business: The order of business for public hearings shall
be as follows:
         a.   Call to order and roll call.
         b.   The chairperson will open the public hearing for a particular
matter, giving a brief summary of the petition.
         c.   The chairperson will present a brief explanation of the order of
business for the public hearing and the rules governing public participation in
the hearing.
         d.   The chairperson will swear in those wishing to give testimony.
         e.   The applicant will present its petition, including its
application and any exhibits on which its presentation will rely. All exhibits
will be marked and identified or titled by the secretary and numbered as
appropriate.
         f.   The public may ask questions of the petitioner.
         g.   The public may offer testimony in favor of the petition or
portions thereof.
         h.   The public may offer testimony objecting to the petition or
portions thereof.
         i.   The petitioner may offer a short rebuttal to the public comments.
         j.   The board may ask questions of the petitioner or members of the
public, and may make comments concerning the petition.
         k.   The hearing will be closed or continued by approval of a motion
of the board. Continuances should generally only occur if there was a
procedural error or if new or additional testimony is forthcoming.
         l.   The board may take a vote concerning a decision as to the
petition. (Ord. 15-01, 1-20-2015; amd. Ord. 20-05, 4-21-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g).
CHAPTER 4
ESDA ORGANIZATION 1
SECTION:
2-4-1: Organization, Establishment, Composition
2-4-2: Purpose
2-4-3: Duties
2-4-4: Compensation Of Members
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 3 of this code for civil emergency provisions.
2-4-1: ORGANIZATION, ESTABLISHMENT, COMPOSITION:
Pursuant to the authority granted by the Illinois emergency management act 1 ,
there is hereby created an ESDA organization for the village. The ESDA
organization shall consist of a liaison officer to DuPage and Kane Counties and
such additional members as may be appointed by the village president with the
advice and consent of the village board. (Ord. 02-13, 8-6-2002)
 
Notes
1 2. 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
2-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the ESDA organization is to prevent, minimize, repair and
alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack,
sabotage, other hostile action or natural causes or manmade disasters. (Ord.
02-13, 8-6-2002)
2-4-3: DUTIES:
   A.   General: The ESDA organization shall perform such ESDA functions within
the village as shall be prescribed in and by the state ESDA plan and program
prepared by the governor and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the governor. In addition, the ESDA organization shall perform
such duties outside the corporate limits of the village as may be required
pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision,
municipality or quasi- municipality entered into as provided by the act.
   B.   Emergency: If the governor declares that a disaster emergency exists in
the event of actual enemy attack upon the United States, or in the event of a
major disaster within the state resulting from enemy sabotage, other hostile
action or from natural causes, it shall be the duty of the liaison officer and
the ESDA organization to cooperate fully with municipal officials, with
officials from DuPage and Kane County emergency management agencies, the state
ESDA and the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 02-13, 8-6-2002)
2-4-4: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS:
The members of the ESDA organization who are paid employees or officers of the
village, if called for training by the state director of ESDA, shall receive
for time spent in such training the same rate of pay as is attached to the
position held in the village. Members of the ESDA organization who are not such
municipal employees or officers shall receive for such training time such
compensation as may be established by the village board. (Ord. 97-36, 12-16-
1997; amd. Ord. 02-13, 8-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
PARK COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Created
2-5-2: Meetings
2-5-3: Powers And Duties
2-5-4: Compensation
2-5-5: Appendix I, Rules For Public Participation
2-5-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Village Park Commission
consisting of not less than five (5) members, but in no event, shall the number
of members be greater than seven (7) members. Within such limits, the number of
members may be increased or decreased from time to time by resolution of the
Corporate Authorities. Members shall be appointed by the President with the
consent of the Corporate Authorities. Each person so appointed shall be
appointed for a term not to exceed four (4) years except that the members of
the commission first appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term
of not more than two (2) members shall expire annually thereafter. The term of
office of each member of the commission shall commence on May 1 and shall
expire on April 30 of the year designated for the expiration of such member's
term. The President may also designate one (1) or more Village officers or
Trustees as ex officio members of the commission. All present members of
commission shall continue in office until their successors have been appointed
or qualified. (Ord. 17-09, 7-11-2017)
2-5-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   The commission shall meet at such times as it may determine in
accordance with the provisions of the Open Meetings Act, but in no event less
than once each month 1 .
      2.   The President shall designate one (1) member of the commission as
Chairman, subject to the consent of the Corporate Authorities. The commission
shall elect one (1) of its members as Secretary.
   B.   Records: The commission shall keep a correct record of its proceedings
and shall adopt appropriate rules to govern such proceedings. (Ord. 89-06, 4-4-
1989)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-2E of this Code.
2-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties; Reports: The commission shall report in writing to the
President and Board of Trustees on its activities from time to time, and shall
carry out such other duties as the Corporate Authorities may direct. (Ord. 89-
06, 4-4-1989)
   B.   Administer Parks: The Park Commission shall have the power to maintain
and administer all parks or park facilities of the Village heretofore or
hereafter purchased or acquired by the Village for park purposes, and shall
also direct the ornamenting, adorning, laying out and improving of the grounds
of said parks, and for that purpose may, with the prior approval of and in the
name of the Corporate Authorities, employ such workmen and purchase or contract
for material or service as they may deem necessary. No contracts may be entered
into or funds expended except with the prior approval of the Corporate
Authorities pursuant to an appropriation or authorization made therefor. (Ord.
89-06, 4-4-1989; amd. Ord. 92-05, 4-7-1992)
   C.   Employ Park Custodians: The Park Commission, with the prior approval of
and in the name of the Corporate Authorities, may employ some competent persons
as park custodians, and define their duties. The salary of such custodians
shall be set by the Corporate Authorities.
   D.   Jurisdiction: The Park Commission shall within one hundred twenty (120)
days of its initial meeting report and make recommendations to the Corporate
Authorities regarding matters under its jurisdiction including, but not limited
to:
      1.   The various options available to the Village regarding operation,
maintenance, development, creation, organization, control, improvement,
enlargement, discontinuance and management of Village parks and recreation
facilities;
      2.   The possible formation of a separate Wayne park district pursuant to
70 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1205/2-1 et seq.;
      3.   The possible amalgamation of part or all of the village park and
recreation system with an existing park district. (Ord. 89-6, 4-4-1989)
2-5-4: COMPENSATION:
The commission shall serve without compensation. However, members of the
commission may be reimbursed by the village for out of pocket expenses relating
to the performance of their duties in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 89-6,
4-4-1989)
2-5-5: APPENDIX I, RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
   APPENDIX I
   A.   General:
      1.   Statutory Authorization For Rules: The open meetings act 1  provides
that, effective January 1, 2011, any person shall be permitted an opportunity
to address the park commission (the "commission") under rules established by
the commission. The portions of these rules relating to public participation
are promulgated pursuant thereto.
      2.   Right To Speak: All persons wishing to address the commission may do
so subject to compliance with these rules, unless compliance is waived by the
commission.
      3.   Public Participation; Applicability Of Rules:
         a.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Applies: The right of the
public to address the commission and these rules shall apply at the following
meetings:
            (1)   Regular meetings of the commission that are open to the
public; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission that are open to the
public if the agenda provides for public comment.
         b.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Does Not Apply: The public
shall have no right to address the commission at the following meetings:
            (1)   Those meetings or portions of meetings of the commission
(whether regular or special meetings) which are closed to the public in
accordance with the open meetings act; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission which are open to the
public if the agenda does not provide for public comment.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Compliance: It shall be a violation of these rules for any person to
address or attempt to address any meeting of the commission except in
compliance with limitations and restrictions imposed in these rules. Public
participation shall be permitted at the commission meetings as follows:
         a.   Under public comment if such an item appears on the agenda.
         b.   At the time of the commission's discussion of any item that
appears on the agenda at a time designated for such comment by the chairperson.
         c.   At the time designated or requested by the chairperson for
invited speakers.
      2.   Limitations: The chairperson of the commission may impose reasonable
limitations on public participation at the commission meetings to allow for
consideration of the entire agenda, and to assure that all who wish to speak
have an opportunity to do so and are treated with respect. Unless extended for
a time certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission, the
following limitations shall apply, and the chairperson reserves the right to
halt or suspend the public participation to a later date if the rules are not
being followed:
         a.   In general, all speakers shall be limited to no more than three
(3) minutes.
         b.   The chairperson may bar repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or
inappropriate comments or testimony.
         c.   Persons wishing to speak during any portion of the commission
meeting shall sign in before the start of the meeting stating their name and
the topic to be discussed. These rules shall be posted at the speaker sign-in
table.
         d.   Speakers shall be called by name before addressing the commission
and will identify themselves before beginning their comments. Speakers will
state their position on the issue, and may provide supporting documentation
and/or evidence.
         e.   Speakers shall refrain from engaging in debates and from
directing threats or personal attacks at the commission, staff, other speakers
or members of the audience.
         f.   Groups should, whenever possible, consolidate their comments and
avoid repetition through the use of representative speakers.
         g.   Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding, cheering,
booing or the like during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member or commission member.
   C.   Agenda Participation: Public participation related to agenda items will
be in the following order:
      1.   The petitioner for an agenda item, if any, is the person or entity
with a financial or ownership interest in the matter or property that is the
subject of an item on the commission's agenda. The petitioner may present its
petition for no more than ten (10) minutes, unless extended for a time certain
by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission. Following public
participation, the petitioner will have no more than five (5) additional
minutes to reply to the comments made or questions asked.
      2.   Speakers may comment on any agenda item or may present questions to
the commission provided they comply with the limitations established in
subsections B2a through B2g of this section.
      3.   The public participation portion of the agenda item shall be subject
to a total limitation of thirty (30) minutes, unless extended for a time
certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission.
      4.   If an item on the commission's agenda is tabled after public
participation has occurred, and the same item contains no significant changes
when discussed at the subsequent meeting date, there will be no public
participation portion for such agenda item at such subsequent meeting.
      5.   Commission members may, but need not, ask questions of speakers at
the conclusion of their comments.
      6.   Following the presentation by a petitioner, if any, public
participation and any questions from the commission, the commission may
deliberate concerning any action to be taken. No additional comment may be made
by the public or the petitioner except upon the express request or permission
of a majority of the members of the commission.
   D.   Invited Speakers: Any person may address the commission by invitation
of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the commission who are
present. Speakers invited to participate shall be subject to such limitations
as the chairperson or a majority of the commission shall prescribe. In the
absence of other restrictions, such speakers shall be governed by the same
rules which govern public participation generally. (Ord. 15-01, 1-20-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g).
CHAPTER 6
PRIVATE ROADS AND DRAINAGE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Created
2-6-2: Meetings
2-6-3: Powers And Duties
2-6-4: Compensation
2-6-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created the Wayne Private Roads and Drainage Commission
consisting of five (5) members appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. Each person so appointed shall be appointed
for a term of five (5) years except that the members of the Commission first
appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one member shall
expire annually thereafter. Except for the initial members of the Commission,
the term of office of each member shall commence on May 1 and shall expire on
April 30 of the year designated for the expiration of such member's term. The
President may also designate one or more Village officers or Trustees as ex
officio members of the Commission. (Ord. 91-15, 7-9-1991)
2-6-2: MEETINGS 1 :
   A.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   The Commission shall meet at such times at it may determine in
accordance with the provisions of the Open Meetings Act, but in no event less
than once each month. (Ord. 91-15, 7-9-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
      2.   The President shall designate one member of the Commission as
chairman, subject to the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Commission shall
elect one of its members as secretary.
   B.   Records: The Commission shall keep a correct record of its proceedings
and shall adopt appropriate rules to govern such proceedings. (Ord. 91-15, 7-9-
1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-2D of this Code.
2-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Duties; Reports: The Commission shall report in writing to the
President and Board of Trustees on its activities from time to time, and shall
carry out such other duties as the corporate authorities may direct.
   B.   Initial Goals: The Private Roads and Drainage Commission shall have as
its initial goals to:
      1.   Identify stormwater management problems and consider the
establishment by the Village of a special service area or areas to finance the
correction of such problems;
      2.   Offer homeowners' associations or subdivisions within the corporate
limits of the Village the opportunity to provide, through establishing a
special service area or areas, the means for paying for routine maintenance of
or for capital improvements to stormwater management facilities;
      3.   Where possible, work to strengthen homeowners associations'
involvement with respect to private roads and stormwater management.
   C.   Contracts And Expenditures: No contracts may be entered into or funds
expended by the Commission except with the prior approval of the corporate
authorities pursuant to an appropriation or authorization made therefor. (Ord.
91-15, 7-9-1991)
2-6-4: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation. However,
members of the Commission may be reimbursed by the Village for actual out-of-
pocket expenses relating to the performance of their duties in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 91-15, 7-9-1991)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Persons Subject To License
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: License Forms, Conditions
3-1-4: Investigations
3-1-5: Buildings And Premises
3-1-6: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-7: Revocation Of License
3-1-8: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person shall be subject to the requirement, if
by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds himself forth as
being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor,
actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business or occupation in the Village. (1998 Code)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the Village Clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official. (1998 Code)
3-1-3: LICENSE FORMS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Forms Available: Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications
therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the Village Clerk.
   B.   Signatures: Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of
the Village President and the Village Clerk in the absence of any provision to
the contrary.
   C.   License Term: All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of
the calendar year where no provision to the contrary is made.
   D.   Posting Of License: It shall be the duty of any person conducting a
licensed business in the Village to keep his license posted in a prominent
place on the premises used for such business at all times. (1998 Code)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
Village necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. An inspection in
regard to such licenses in the connection of the care and handling of food and
the preventing of nuisances and the spread of disease shall be made by the
proper Village official. For the protection of health, the Building Official
shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative to the
construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except
where otherwise provided, shall be made by the police authority or by some
other officer designated by the Village President. (1998 Code)
3-1-5: BUILDINGS AND PREMISES:
   A.   Comply With Building Regulations: No license shall be issued for the
conduct of any business, and no permit shall be issued for any thing, or act,
if the premises and building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply
with the requirements of the Village. No such license or permit shall be issued
for the conduct of any business or performance of any act which would involve a
violation of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village.
   B.   Change Of Location: In the absence of any provision to the contrary,
the location of any licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act,
may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the Village
Clerk; provided, the building and zoning requirements of this Code are complied
with. (1998 Code)
3-1-6: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1998 Code)
3-1-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Unless otherwise provided, any license or permit, for a limited time, may be
revoked by the Village President and Board of Trustees during the life of such
license or permit for the violation by the licensee or permittee of any
provision relating to the license or permit, the subject of the license or
permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any
fine imposed. The Village President and Board of Trustees shall be authorized
to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the premises and
the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not to exceed
fifteen (15) days.
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the Village officials have so
acted, the Village President shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether or not the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to
the date for the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross-examine
witnesses. The Village President shall preside and shall render the decision
and recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the Village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the
Village President and Board of Trustees after notice and hearing as provided in
subsections B and C of this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the Village.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized Village officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this Code. (1998 Code)
3-1-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the Village to issue a license or
permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall have the right to
appeal the Village's decision to the Village Board. Such appeal shall be
requested by submitting a written request to the Village President within five
(5) days of the action of the Village which is appealed.
The Village Board shall consider the appeal at its next regularly scheduled
meeting, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to present his appeal
orally or in writing. The Board shall act on the appeal within seven (7) days
of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the Village or shall
direct the issuance of a license or permit which the Village had denied or the
reissuance of a license or permit which the Village has revoked. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Application For Licenses
3-2-5: Restrictions On Licenses
3-2-6: License Classes, Fees, Number
3-2-7: Payment Of License Fees
3-2-8: Insurance Required
3-2-9: Location And Premises Conditions, Restrictions
3-2-10: Conditions Of License
3-2-11: Provisions Relating To Minors
3-2-12: Complaint Of Violation
3-2-13: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-14: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
All words and phrases defined in the liquor control act 1  of the state are
hereby incorporated and made a part of this chapter as if set forth at length
herein. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.01 et seq.
3-2-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Village President To Serve: The president of the board of trustees of
the village shall be the local liquor control commissioner and shall be charged
with the administration within the village of the appropriate provisions of
this chapter 1 .
   B.   Powers And Duties: The local liquor control commissioner shall have the
following powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses:
      1.   To grant, suspend for not more than thirty (30) days, or revoke for
cause, all local licenses issued to persons for premises within his
jurisdiction;
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted by him or by the
state commission have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine
said premises of said licensee in connection therewith;
      3.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of this chapter, or any rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaints in the manner hereinafter provided 2 ;
      4.   The president of the board of trustees, as local liquor control
commissioner, shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
      5.   To appoint a person or persons to serve as deputy local liquor
control commissioners to assist the local liquor control commissioner in the
exercise of the powers and in the performance of the duties of the commissioner
as specified in this subsection B, and to designate and grant authority to such
other persons, from time to time, as the commissioner may deem necessary, to
carry out any of such duties. (Ord. 13-21, 12-3-2013)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
2 1. See section
  3-2-12 of this chapter.
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Only such persons as shall be granted a liquor license in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquors in the village. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
3-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the local liquor control
commissioner in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit, and shall contain the following statements and information:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, the date of
incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, a summary of its
activities during the past year, and the names and addresses of the officers,
directors, all persons owning directly or beneficially more than five percent
(5%) of the stock of such corporation and the person operating as manager of
the premises; and in the case of a club, the date of its incorporation, the
objects for which it was organized, a summary of its activities during the past
year, the names and addresses of the officers, directors and the person
operating as manager. A club must file with the local liquor control
commissioner, at the time of its application for license under this chapter,
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
file, within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member, his name
and address.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, the place of his birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   C.   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made application for a similar or
other license on premises other than described in the application, and the
disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that applicant is not disqualified to receive a license by
reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter, laws of this state, or
the ordinances of the village, and a statement that applicant has never been
convicted of a felony, or a crime involving moral turpitude.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked, and the reasons thereof.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state of Illinois, or of the United States, or any ordinances of the village in
the conduct of his place of business.
   K.   A statement that applicant will not allow gambling devices on the
premises. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
3-2-5: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation;
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law if the local liquor control commissioner determines, after investigation,
that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public
trust;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to public decency and morality;
   F.   A person whose license under this chapter has been revoked for cause;
   G.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   H.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning directly or beneficially in the aggregate
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would not be
eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than citizenship
and residence within the political subdivision;
   J.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Illinois or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act 1  to
transact business in Illinois;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor, or who
shall have forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation;
   M.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereof for the full period for which the
license is issued;
   N.   Any elected public official, or any employee of the village or an
appointee to any board or commission of the village which employee or appointee
is charged with the responsibility of administering or enforcing this chapter;
provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent
such an official, employee or appointee from making application for the
issuance or renewal of a license hereunder as an officer, director or board
member of a class C licensee from which applicant or licensee the official,
employee or appointee derives no direct or indirect pecuniary benefit;
   O.   Any applicant who shall fail to be eligible for and receive a license
to sell alcoholic liquor from the state, except where such applicant fails to
be eligible due to the location requirements of the state;
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 5/28-1, or as prescribed
by section 5/28-3, of the criminal code 2 , or as prescribed by statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   R.   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period;
   S.   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partnerships have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or a federal wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for
the current tax period;
   T.   A corporation, or any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock if
such corporation has been issued a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period;
   U.   Any premises for which a federal gambling device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. Ord. 03-11, 7-15-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1, 5/28-3.
3-2-6: LICENSE CLASSES, FEES, NUMBER:
Each classification of liquor license shall be subject to an annual license
fee, and limitations of hours of operation and type of establishment as
indicated below: (Ord. 82-03, 6-14-1982; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 03-07, 5-20-2003)
   A.   Class A:
      1.   Purpose: Except as otherwise authorized in this subsection A, a
class A license shall permit only the retail sale, on the premises specified,
of alcoholic liquor, only in the original package and only for consumption off
the premises, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Retail sales of alcoholic liquor on the premises specified shall
not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the gross revenues of the premises.
         b.   Retail sales of alcoholic liquor shall be made only in accordance
with the business plan submitted with the application for a class A liquor
license. (Ord. 13-21, 12-3-2013)
      2.   Hours Of Operation: The holder of a class A license shall not sell
or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day except Sunday, or between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on Saturday and twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon on Sunday.
While no alcoholic liquor shall be sold during the aforementioned prohibited
times, licensees shall be allowed twenty (20) minutes after the commencement of
such prohibited times to clean and close the licensed premises. (Ord. 13-14, 9-
3-2013)
      3.   Tastings: Notwithstanding the purposes and restrictions on sale of
alcoholic liquor provided for in subsection A1 of this section, tastings shall
be permitted that involve consumption of alcoholic liquor only on the licensed
premises, and only for such tasting, subject to the following:
         a.   The licensee shall notify the liquor commissioner and the chief
of police of the dates for any tasting not less than five (5) business days
prior to such tasting;
         b.   Tastings shall be permitted no more than three (3) times in any
one month;
         c.   No more than two (2) ounces of alcoholic liquor per taste shall
be offered to any customer;
         d.   The licensee shall provide evidence, satisfactory to the liquor
commissioner, that such licensee is covered by a policy of dramshop insurance,
issued by a responsible insurance company authorized and licensed to do
business in the state of Illinois, insuring such applicant against any
liability for consumption of alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises that
such applicant may incur under the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/6-21;
         e.   Prior to scheduling any tastings, the licensee must provide the
liquor commissioner with certificates of completion of a beverage alcohol
sellers and servers education and training program licensed by the state of
Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois administrative
code, chapter XVI, section 3500a, for the owners and any employees that will
serve alcoholic liquor at tastings on the licensed premises. Thereafter, all
new employees shall receive such training within ninety (90) days of their
employment by any licensee.
      4.   Special Events: Notwithstanding the purposes and restrictions on
sale of alcoholic liquor provided for in subsection A1 of this section, private
special events shall be permitted that involve consumption of alcoholic liquor
only on the licensed premises and only for such event, subject to the
requirements set forth in subsection E of this section. (Ord. 13-21, 12-3-2013)
      5.   Fee: The annual fee for a class A license to sell alcoholic liquor,
only in the original package and only for consumption off the premises, shall
be three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      6.   Number: There may be in force at any time no more than one license
for this classification. (Ord. 13-14, 9-3-2013; amd. Ord. 13-21, 12-3-2013)
   B.   Class B:
      1.   Purpose: Shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for
consumption only on the premises where sold, to be issued to a regularly
organized club, as defined in the state liquor control act 1 , and said license
shall authorize the licensee to sell liquor in the club quarters only.
      2.   Hours Of Operation: The holder of a class B license may sell or
offer for sale alcoholic liquor on all days of the week. The holder of a class
B license shall not sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday. The holder of a class B
license shall not sell or offer for sale any alcoholic liquor between the hours
of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
      3.   Fee: The annual fee for a class B license to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail for consumption on the premises of a regularly organized club shall
be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      4.   Number: There may be in force at any time no more than two (2)
licenses for this classification.
      5.   Persons who will be responsible for dispensing liquor on behalf of a
class B license holder shall hold a certificate of completion of a beverage
alcohol sellers and servers education and training program licensed by the
state of Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois
administrative code, chapter XVI, section 3500a. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd.
1998 Code; Ord. 21-17, 11-2-2021)
   C.   Class C:
      1.   Purpose: A temporary license is hereby authorized for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold or
adjacent to said premises. Such temporary licenses are to be granted to a
regularly organized club, as defined in the state liquor control act, or to
local organizations or groups authorizing the sale of alcoholic liquor at a
picnic, carnival, special sporting event or similar functions.
      2.   Term Of License: Such license shall be authorized on a day to day
basis but for not more than seven (7) consecutive days.
      3.   Number: The number of class C licenses issued each calendar year
shall be limited to five (5) per organized club, local organization or group.
      4.   Fee: The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00)
on a per diem basis.
      5.   Persons who will be responsible for dispensing liquor on behalf of a
class C license holder shall hold a certificate of completion of a beverage
alcohol sellers and servers education and training program licensed by the
state of Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois
administrative code, chapter XVI, section 3500a. (Ord. 81-05, 7-27-1981; amd.
1998 Code; Ord. 03-07, 5-20-2003; Ord. 21-17, 11-2-2021)
   D.   Class D:
      1.   Purpose: Except as otherwise authorized in this subsection D, shall
permit the retail sale for consumption only on the premises where sold, to be
issued for such sales only on the premises of a commercial equestrian
development and stables for which a special use permit has been issued pursuant
to section
10-12-1 of this code. (Ord. 14-18, 8-5-2014)
      2.   Hours Of Operation: The holder of a class D license may sell or
offer for sale alcoholic liquor between the hours of eleven thirty o'clock (11:
30) A.M. and eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. on those days equestrian shows,
events, exhibitions or contests are conducted on the premises. No person shall
be permitted to consume alcoholic beverages on the premises where sold between
the hours of eleven forty five o'clock (11:45) P.M. and eleven thirty o'clock
(11:30) A.M. the next day following.
      3.   Term Of License: A class D license shall be valid from March 1
through November 15 of each year.
      4.   Number: There may be in force at any time no more than one license
for this classification.
      5.   Fee: The annual fee for class D license shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 03-07, 5-20-2003)
      6.   Public Gatherings For The Community: Notwithstanding the purposes
and restrictions on sale of alcoholic liquor provided for in subsections D1 and
D2 of this section, a temporary license for a public gathering for the
community on the premises of a commercial equestrian development and stables
holding a class D license may be issued to permit consumption of alcoholic
liquor on the licensed premises and/or the retail sale of alcoholic liquor in
the original package for consumption off the licensed premises, subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   Terms: Such temporary license shall be only for a single day, and
the number of such licenses shall not exceed three (3) in any one year for the
same licensed premises.
         b.   Limitations: Such temporary license may be issued to a licensee
for events notwithstanding the fact that sale of alcoholic liquor at such
events would exceed the limitations on liquor sales under its existing class D
license.
         c.   Fee: The fee for each such temporary license shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
         d.   Issuance Of License: Such temporary license may be granted by the
liquor commissioner, without the approval of the village board, upon written
request by an existing class D licensee not less than five (5) business days
prior to the public gathering for the community. The commissioner may impose
such reasonable terms and conditions as the commissioner may determine to be
necessary to protect the public health and safety and assure compliance with
village ordinances. In order to enable the commissioner to make such
determination, the applicant shall provide the following information in
conjunction with its request:
            (1)   Estimated number of persons attending and evidence that there
is sufficient parking available for such persons;
            (2)   Location and layout of liquor sales at the event and at the
premises;
            (3)   Persons who will be responsible for dispensing liquor and
evidence that each such person holds a certificate of completion of a beverage
alcohol sellers and servers education and training program licensed by the
state of Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois
administrative code, chapter XVI, section 3500a;
            (4)   Manner in which and what type of liquor will be dispensed and
consumed;
            (5)   Evidence satisfactory to the liquor commissioner that the
licensee is covered by a policy of dramshop insurance, issued by a responsible
insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the state of
Illinois, insuring such applicant against any liability for consumption of
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises that such applicant may incur under
the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21; and
            (6)   Such other measures requested by the commissioner, if any, to
be taken to protect against violations of the village's ordinances. (Ord. 14-
18, 8-5-2014)
   E.   Class E:
      1.   Purpose: A temporary license is hereby authorized for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on premises where sold, provided
that such premises have previously been issued a liquor license of another
classification for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor. A class E license shall
be issued only for a private function at which the sale of alcoholic liquor
shall be made only in conjunction with the catering of foods, and the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be incidental to the food service.
      2.   Term Of License: Such license shall be only for a single day, and
the number of such licenses shall not exceed twenty four (24) in any one year
for the same licensed premises.
      3.   Limitations: Such license may be issued to a licensee for events
that would exceed the limitations on liquor sales under its existing license
classification.
      4.   Fee: The fee for such license shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for each special event.
      5.   Issuance Of License: Such license may be granted by the liquor
commissioner, without the approval of the village board, upon written request
by an existing licensee not less than five (5) business days prior to the
special event. The commissioner may impose such reasonable terms and conditions
as the commissioner may determine to be necessary to protect the public health
and safety and assure compliance with village ordinances. In order to enable
the commissioner to make such determination, the applicant shall provide the
following information in conjunction with its request:
         a.   Estimated number of persons attending and evidence that there is
sufficient parking available for such persons;
         b.   Location and layout of liquor sales at the event and at the
premises;
         c.   Persons who will be responsible for dispensing liquor and
evidence that each such person holds a certificate of completion of a beverage
alcohol sellers and servers education and training program licensed by the
state of Illinois liquor control commission, as required by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3-12 (11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois
administrative code, chapter XVI, section 3500a;
         d.   Manner in which and what type of liquor will be dispensed and
consumed;
         e.   Evidence satisfactory to the liquor commissioner that the
licensee is covered by a policy of dramshop insurance, issued by a responsible
insurance company authorized and licensed to do business in the state of
Illinois, insuring such applicant against any liability for consumption of
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises that such applicant may incur under
the provisions of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21; and
         f.   Steps to be taken to protect against violations of the village's
ordinances. (Ord. 13-21, 12-3-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24.
3-2-7: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES:
All such fees shall be delivered to the local liquor control commissioner at
the time an application for a liquor license is made. All license fees shall be
paid by certified check or bank draft payable to the village. Such liquor
license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall not be transferable.
Such license shall be good for not exceeding the calendar year in which it is
issued, unless sooner revoked for cause as provided by law.
There shall be no apportioning of said fee for fractions of a year, nor shall
there be any refund in case of a revocation of said license.
All license fees are due and payable January 2 of each calendar year, and it
shall be unlawful for any place of business wherein alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale, or kept for sale, to be open to the public until such fee is
paid and license issued.
Upon the local liquor control commissioner's approving the issuance of any
license, the fee for such license shall be delivered to the village treasurer
to be deposited in the general corporate fund. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
3-2-8: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with the
application, a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the state, certifying that the applicant has in force and effect the dramshop
insurance required by statute 1 . (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/6-21.
3-2-9: LOCATION AND PREMISES CONDITIONS, RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Locations Restricted: No license shall be issued for the sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school,
hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons, or for veterans, their spouses
or children, or any military or naval station. In determining the distance
provided for in this subsection, any point on the boundaries of the lot, parcel
or land upon which a church, school, hospital or home, as herein defined, shall
be construed as being the point from which measurement shall be taken. (Ord.
81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Sanitary Conditions:
      1.   Cleaning Premises: All premises used for the sale of alcoholic
liquors shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. No refuse of any sort
shall be permitted to accumulate thereon, and all such premises shall be
thoroughly cleaned at least once in every twenty four (24) hours (provided that
no cleaning shall be required on days when the establishment is closed and no
business is conducted on the premises).
      2.   Inspections: All premises in the village where alcoholic liquors are
sold shall be inspected at least every six (6) months by the police department
to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Change Of Location: A liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only on the premises described in the application and license. Such
location may be changed only upon a written permission to make such change
issued by the village president. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
3-2-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Transfer Of License: A license shall be purely a personal privilege,
good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this
chapter provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall cease upon the death of the licensee and shall
not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, provided that the
executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor under the order of the appropriate court, may exercise
the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the
death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration
of such license but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy
or insolvency of such licensee. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Employees:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the sale of
alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of any
contagious, infectious or venereal disease;
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a
carrier of any such disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in
any way in the handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor;
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to engage, employ or permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to tend bar, to draw, pour or
mix any alcoholic liquor, in any licensed premises; provided, that the
provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent the employment
of persons who are at least nineteen (19) years of age as waiters or waitresses
by holders of a class B or D license for the purposes of serving food and
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or agent or employee of any
licensee holding a retail liquor license to permit any employee under the age
of twenty one (21) years or any customer of any age to register, by mechanical,
electronic or other means, the sale of any alcoholic liquor, including beer and
wine. (Ord. 03-11, 7-15-2003)
   C.   Change In Personnel:
      1.   Any changes in partnership, officers, directors, persons holding
directly or beneficially more than five percent (5%) of the stock or ownership
interest, or managers of establishments licensed under this chapter, shall be
reported in writing to the local liquor control commissioner within ten (10)
days of the change. All new personnel shall meet all the standards of this
chapter and must otherwise qualify to hold a liquor license. All such changes
in personnel shall be subject to review by the local liquor control
commissioner.
      2.   When a license has been issued to a partnership and a change of
ownership occurs resulting in a partnership interest by one who is not eligible
to hold a liquor license, said license shall terminate.
      3.   When a license has been issued to a corporation and a change takes
place in officers, directors, shareholders of more than five percent (5%) of
the stock, or managers resulting in the holding of office of such shares of
stock by one who is not eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
      4.   When a license has been issued to an individual who is no longer
eligible for a license, said license shall terminate.
   D.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village.
   E.   Sales On Credit: No person shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor to
any person on credit or on a passbook, or order on a store, or in exchange for
any goods, wares or merchandise, or in payment for any services rendered; and
if any person shall extend credit for such purpose, the debt thereby attempted
to be created shall not be recoverable at law; provided, that nothing herein
contained shall be construed to prevent any club from permitting checks or
statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by members or bona fide guests or
members and charged to the account of such members of guests in accordance with
the bylaws of said club.
   F.   Acts Of Agents Or Employees: Every act or omission of whatsoever
nature, constituting a violation of any provisions of this chapter by any
officer, director, manager or other agent or employee of any licensee, if said
act is committed or omission is made with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee, and said employer or licensee shall be punishable in the
same manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him
personally.
   G.   Civil Rights In Licensed Premises: No licensee licensed under the
provisions of this chapter shall deny or permit his agents and employees to
deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages,
facilities and privileges of any premises in which alcoholic liquors are
authorized to be sold subject only to the conditions and limitations
established by law and applicable alike to all citizens, and to membership
requirements in clubs. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
   H.   Cessation Of Business: Any licensee, other than a licensee holding a
class D license, who has ceased to do business or closes its place of business
for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days without written
permission from the local liquor commissioner shall be subject to having its
license declared forfeited and lapsed by order of the local liquor
commissioner. (Ord. 15-04, 4-7-2015)
3-2-11: PROVISIONS RELATING TO MINORS:
   A.   Sales To Minors, Certain Persons Restricted:
      1.   No licensee, or officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee, shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, nor to any intoxicated person,
nor to any person known by him to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person,
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under twenty one (21) years of
age except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to misrepresent his age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
      3.   In every place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold, there
shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed card which shall
be supplied by the village clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
(Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
   WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to $750.00 under the ordinances of the Village of
Wayne if you purchase alcoholic liquor, or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor.
(Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a liquor license, or his
agent or employee, to suffer or permit any minor to be or remain in any room or
compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the room or place where
such licensed premises is located; provided, that this subsection shall not
apply to any minor who is accompanied by his parent or guardian or to any
licensed premises which derives its principal business from the sale of service
or commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
In addition to other fines and penalties, the local liquor control commissioner
may revoke the liquor dealer's license for any violation of this provision.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian to permit any minor
child, of which he shall be the parent or guardian, to violate any provisions
of this subsection.
   B.   Age Restrictions; Identification Cards: Any person to whom the sale,
gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age shall not
purchase or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have alcoholic liquor in his
possession.
If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to believe that
a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of
the prospective recipient, he shall, before making such sale or delivery,
demand presentation of some form of positive identification, containing proof
of age, issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
No person shall transfer, alter or deface such an identification card, use the
identification card of another, carry or use a false or forged identification
card or obtain an identification card by means of false information. (Ord. 81-
01, 1-12-1980)
No person shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic
liquor in violation of this subsection. Whoever violates any provisions of this
subsection shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than the maximum provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
3-2-12: COMPLAINT OF VIOLATION:
Any five (5) residents of the village shall have the right to file a complaint
with the local liquor control commissioner stating that any licensee, subject
to the jurisdiction of the local liquor control commissioner, has been or is
violating the provisions of this chapter or the rules or regulations issued
pursuant hereto. Such complaint shall be in writing in the form prescribed by
the local commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the parties
complaining. The complaint shall state the particular provisions, rule or
regulation believed to have been violated and the facts in detail upon which
belief is based. If the local liquor control commissioner is satisfied that the
complaint substantially charges a violation, he shall set the matter for
hearing and shall serve notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such
hearing and of the particular charges in the complaint. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981;
amd. 1998 Code)
3-2-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Notice; Hearing: The local liquor control commissioner may revoke or
suspend any license issued by him if he determines the licensee has violated
any of the provisions of this chapter, or any applicable rules or regulations
established by the local liquor control commissioner or the state commission
which is not inconsistent with law. However, no such license shall be so
revoked or suspended except after a public hearing by the local liquor control
commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. If the local liquor control
commissioner has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular
licensed premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he
may, upon the issuance of a written order stating the reason for such
conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed
for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be
heard during that period, except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in
the conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises, such
order shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses.
   B.   Reuse Of Premises: When any license shall have been revoked for any
cause, no license shall be granted to any person for the period of one year
thereafter for the conduct of business of selling alcoholic liquor in the
premises described in such revoked license. (Ord. 81-01, 1-12-1981)
3-2-14: PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
81-01, 1-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Certificate Of Registration
3-3-4: Application For Certificates Of Registration
3-3-5: Display Of Certificates Of Registration
3-3-6: Village Policy On Soliciting
3-3-7: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-3-8: Duty Of Solicitors
3-3-9: Hours Of Soliciting
3-3-10: Severance Clause
3-3-11: Solicitation Of Contributions
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter governing solicitors to prevent crime and
protect the health, welfare, and privacy of citizens of the village; to ensure
that the police department is aware of the number and identity of persons who
will be soliciting for commercial and noncommercial purposes and the
geographical area and time periods in and during which such activities will
occur within the village; and to prevent the imitation of noncommercial
purposes and organizations who would defraud the public and cause noncommercial
purposes and organizations to be endangered by the suspicions engendered by
such practices; and to protect the welfare, safety, peace, privacy, comfort and
convenience of the public in their homes, businesses, offices and commercial
establishments, and when traveling upon the streets, highways and sidewalks
within the village. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
EXEMPT SOLICITOR: Shall mean and include any person who is not required to
obtain a certificate of registration as set forth in this chapter.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Shall mean and include any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which
certificate is in the possession of the solicitor or his or her person while
engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Shall mean and include any one or more of the following activities:
Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description whatever, for any
kind of consideration whatever; or
Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspapers
and every other type or kind of publication; or
Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other
valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
Going upon any premises and ringing the doorbell, knocking upon or near any
door, or creating any sound in any other manner that is calculated to attract
the attention of an occupant or observer for the purpose of engaging in any of
the activities described in this definition of soliciting.
Proselytizing, canvassing or promoting certain beliefs, positions or values
which does not involve soliciting funds or seeking or attempting to sell goods
or services.
SOLICITOR: Shall mean and include any person who engages in "soliciting" as
herein defined, including exempt solicitors. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Every organization or person desiring to engage in "soliciting" as herein
defined from persons in residences within this municipality, is hereby required
to make written application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter
provided. A person age sixteen (16) and under, who is participating in
fundraising programs for, or sponsored by, a public or private elementary or
high school or bona fide children's organization including, without limitation,
Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts or youth sports, is not required to obtain a
certificate of registration hereunder. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-4: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
The applicant shall provide identification for each solicitor upon filing the
application with the village clerk and such identification shall be sufficient
to confirm the association with the organization conducting the solicitation;
and, in addition to the information required under subsection A of this
section, the applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application for the organization and each solicitor as follows:
   A.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of residence
at such address; also business address if other than residence address; also
social security number;
   B.   Applicant's date of birth and sex;
   C.   Physical description of the applicant;
   D.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of the
soliciting in which the applicant will engage;
   E.   Period of time for which the certificate is sought;
   F.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any;
   G.   Official photo identification issued by a government agency.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
The village clerk shall cause to be kept in her office an accurate record of
every application received and acted upon together with all other information
and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of registration issued under
the provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications. Applications
for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every
certificate issued, and any renewal thereof, shall be identified with the
duplicate number of the application upon which it was issued.
No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois
or any other state or federal law of the United States within five (5) years of
the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
Each certificate of registration shall be valid only for the period of time set
forth thereon, but in no event shall any such certificate be valid for a period
in excess of forty five (45) calendar days from date of issuance. (Ord. 03-12,
7-1-2003)
3-3-5: DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATES OF REGISTRATION:
Upon issuance of a certificate of registration under the provisions of this
chapter, the person engaging in soliciting within the village of Wayne shall
carry said certificate at all times while soliciting and display it to any
person who is approached for the purpose of soliciting under the terms of this
chapter. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-6: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the board of trustees that the
occupant or occupants of the residences in this municipality shall make the
determination of whether solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their
respective residences. Such determination shall be made by the occupant via
verbal instructions or by the exhibiting of a card as provided in section
3-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-7: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this chapter shall comply
with the following directions:
Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to solicitors,
or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in
the manner following:
   A.   A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x
4") in size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the
residence, indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the
applicable words, as follows:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   B.   The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the
purpose of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the village clerk to
persons requesting such at the cost thereof.
   C.   Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-8: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in
the municipality upon which a "residence" as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in section
3-3-7 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If a notice as provided in section
3-3-7 of this chapter is exhibited, the solicitor shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises. If no notice is provided but an occupant
of the premises gives verbal instructions to leave the premises, the solicitor
shall immediately and peacefully depart same. Any solicitor who has gained
entrance to any residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by the occupant.
   B.   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any
door, knocking upon or near any door, or create any sound in any other manner
calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
"soliciting" as herein defined, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the
residence in accordance with the provisions of section
3-3-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-9: HOURS OF SOLICITING:
Any person soliciting in the village of Wayne may do so only between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and pursuant to the
terms of this chapter. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-10: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be held
invalid, the invalidity thereof shall not affect any of the other provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
3-3-11: SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS:
   A.   There is hereby expressly permitted solicitation of contributions from
the occupant of any vehicle or pedestrian on the public rights of way within
the village of Wayne upon the following terms and conditions:
      1.   The soliciting agency shall be registered with the attorney general
as a charitable organization as provided by "an act to regulate solicitation
and collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations
thereof, and making an appropriation therefor".
      2.   The soliciting agency shall be engaged in a fundraising activity for
which a permit has been obtained from the village of Wayne. Said permit shall
be issued by the village clerk's office and limited to fifteen (15) fundraising
activities each calendar year, of one or two (2) consecutive days each, limited
from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. during that time
designated as Central Standard Time or six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to eight o'clock
(8:00) P.M. during that time designated as daylight saving time. A permit for a
two (2) day fundraising activity shall be issued only if the second day of that
fundraising activity is a Saturday. Said permit shall be issued by the village
clerk on a first come first served basis. Each agency shall be limited to one
permit annually.
      3.   The soliciting agency shall furnish to the village of Wayne a
certificate of insurance indemnifying the village from any injury to any person
or property during the solicitation which is causally related to an act of
ordinary negligence of the soliciting agency. Any person engaged in the act of
solicitation shall be sixteen (16) years of age or more and shall be wearing a
high visibility vest.
      4.   Solicitation shall be permitted only at intersections where all
traffic is required to come to a full stop.
      5.   Permits shall be granted to local eleemosynary or religious
organizations or to local chapters of national eleemosynary or religious
organizations which have been in existence for not less than one year.
      6.   Any violation of this section shall be grounds to deny a permit in
the following year, in addition to the penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 03-12, 7-1-2003)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL TAXES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Municipal Utilities Tax
3-4-2: Electric Utility Tax
3-4-3: Locally Imposed And Administered Tax Rights And Responsibilities
3-4-4: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-4-5: Amusement Tax
3-4-6: Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-4-1: MUNICIPAL UTILITIES TAX 1 :
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section and the imposing of the
municipal utilities tax, the following definitions or meanings shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, electricity or water for use or consumption and not
for resale, and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used,
labor or service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
"Gross receipts" shall not include receipts received from the village or the
sale to the village of any utility products or services.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver, trustee,
guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his agents, employees or
permittees, engages in the act or privilege of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling gas or electricity and who incurs a tax liability under
this section. (Ord. 10-05, 4-20-2010)
   B.   Tax Imposed: In accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-2, a tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges in the village: (Ord. 87-07A, 8-26-1987)
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom;
      2.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption, within the corporate
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom 2 ;
      3.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling water for use or consumption within the corporation
limits of the village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom. (Ord. 87-07A, 8-26-1987; amd. Ord. 02-15, 9-3-
2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
   C.   Exemptions:
      1.   No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in
interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not,
under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to
taxation by the state of Illinois or any political subdivision thereof; nor
shall any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing
or selling gas, water or electricity be subject to taxation under the
provisions of this section for such transactions as are or may become subject
to taxation under the provisions of the "municipal retailers' occupation tax
act", being 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax
authorized by this section be imposed on any person engaged in a business
unless such tax is imposed in a like manner and at the same rate upon all
persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the municipality, whether
privately or municipally owned or operated.
      2.   The tax imposed under this section shall not apply with respect to
gross receipts pertaining to bills for the distribution, supply, furnishing or
sale of electricity where the use or consumption of the electricity is subject
to the tax imposed under section
3-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 10-05, 4-20-2010)
   D.   Tax Additional To Other Charges: The tax imposed by this section shall
be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or services
furnished to the village by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its
streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayer's business. (Ord. 87-07A, 8-26-1987)
   E.   Return By Taxpayer: On or before the sixtieth day following the close
of each quarter of a calendar year, each taxpayer shall prepare and transmit to
the village clerk a quarterly report covering such three (3) month period,
stating the following:
      1.   Name of taxpayer;
      2.   Principal place of business of taxpayer;
      3.   Gross receipts of taxpayer during the three (3) month period covered
by the report or return upon which the tax imposed hereunder is based;
      4.   Amount of tax;
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the village clerk
may require.
The taxpayer making the return shall, at the time of transmitting such return
to the village clerk, pay to the village clerk the amount of tax imposed
hereunder; provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, at
the taxpayer's election, report and pay an amount based upon the total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such bills and the taxable gross
receipts. (Ord. 87-07A, 8-26-1987; amd. 1998 Code)
   F.   Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid
which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result
of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then any credit or refund of such tax
shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of subsection
3-4-3G of this chapter.
   G.   Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return as herein required, or
who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of
this section, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each such offense, and in addition thereto, may be
liable in a civil action for the amount of the tax due, plus interest and
penalties as provided in subsection
3-4-3K of this chapter.
   H.   Action To Recover Tax: The statute of limitations for filing any action
to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this section shall be
in accordance with subsection
3-4-3N of this chapter. (Ord. 01-01, 1-2-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
2 1. See section
  3-4-2 of this chapter.
3-4-2: ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, unless the context
otherwise requires, the following definitions shall apply:
    PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, any state university created by statute, or a
receiver, trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of
any court.
   PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this state permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code, directly in the generation, production,
transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
   PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
   TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
   VILLAGE: The village of Wayne, Illinois.
   B.   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2 and any and all
other applicable authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed
within the corporate limits of the village at the following rates, calculated
on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours      Tax (Cents
Consumed In A Month Per Kilowatt Hour)
Kilowatt Hours             Tax (Cents
Consumed In A Month        Per Kilowatt Hour)
   For the first 2,000  0.610
   For the next 48,000  0.400
   For the next 50,000  0.360
   For the next 400,000 0.350
   For the next 500,000 0.340
   For the next 2,000,000.320
   For the next 2,000,000.315
   For the next 5,000,000.310
   For the next 10,000,00.305
   In excess of 20,000,00.300
 
      2.   The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the village, the state or any other political subdivision of the
state.
      3.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the constitution or statutes of the United States or the
constitution of the state.
      4.   The tax shall be imposed beginning with the first bill issued on or
after June 1, 2010.
   C.   Collection Of Tax:
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection E of this section regarding
the delivery of electricity to resellers, the tax imposed under this section
shall be collected from purchasers by the person maintaining a place of
business in this state who delivers electricity to such purchasers. This tax
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and is recoverable at the same time and in the
same manner as the original charge for delivering the electricity.
      2.   Any tax required to be collected by this section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax.
      3.   Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. To the extent permitted by law, persons delivering electricity
shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an amount equal to three
percent (3%) of the tax they collect to reimburse them for their expenses
incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns,
remitting the tax and supplying data to the village upon request. For purposes
of this section, any partial payment of a billed amount not specifically
identified by the purchaser shall be deemed to be for the delivery of
electricity.
   D.   Tax Remittance And Return:
      1.   On or about July 31, 2010, and at the end of each month thereafter,
every tax collector shall file a return in a form prescribed by the village.
The return and accompanying remittance shall be due on or before the last day
of the month following the month during which the tax is collected or is
required to be collected under this section.
      2.   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from
the purchaser or is excused from collecting the tax under subsection E of this
section, then the purchaser shall file a return in a form prescribed by the
village and pay the tax directly to the village on or before the last day of
the month following the month during which the electricity is used or consumed.
   E.   Resales:
      1.   Electricity that is delivered to a person in this village shall be
considered to be for use and consumption by that person unless the person
receiving the electricity has an active resale number issued by the village and
furnishes that number to the person who delivers the electricity, and certifies
to that person that the sale is either entirely or partially nontaxable as a
sale for resale.
      2.   If a person who receives electricity in the village claims to be an
authorized reseller of electricity, that person shall apply to the village for
a resale number. The applicant shall state facts showing why it is not liable
for the tax imposed by this section on any purchases of electricity and shall
furnish such additional information as the village may reasonably require.
      3.   Upon approval of the application, the village shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify the number to the applicant.
      4.   The village may cancel the resale number of any person if the person
fails to pay any tax payable under this section for electricity used or
consumed by the person, or if the number:
         a.   Was obtained through misrepresentation, or
         b.   Is no longer necessary because the person has discontinued making
resales.
         c.   (1) If a reseller has acquired electricity partly for use or
consumption and partly for resale, the reseller shall pay the tax imposed by
this section directly to the village pursuant to subsection D of this section,
on the amount of electricity that the reseller uses or consumes, and shall
collect the tax pursuant to subsection C of this section and remit the tax
pursuant to subsection D of this section on the amount of electricity delivered
by the reseller to a purchaser.
            (2)   Any person who delivers electricity to a reseller having an
active resale number and complying with all other conditions of this section
shall be excused from collecting and remitting the tax on any portion of the
electricity delivered to the reseller, provided that the person reports to the
village the total amount of electricity delivered to the reseller, and such
other information that the village may reasonably require.
   F.   Books And Records: Every tax collector and every taxpayer required to
pay the tax imposed by this section shall keep accurate books and records of
its business or activity, including contemporaneous books and records denoting
the transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise, to any tax liability
under this section. The books and records shall be subject to and available for
inspection by representatives of the village at all times during business hours
of the day.
   G.   Credits And Refunds: Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, in order to permit sound fiscal planning and budgeting by the village,
no person shall be entitled to a refund of, or credit for, a tax imposed under
this section unless the person files a claim for refund or credit within one
year after the date on which the tax was paid or remitted to the village.
   H.   Violations: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of
the tax due. (Ord. 10-05, 4-20-2010)
3-4-3: LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Short Title: This section shall be known as, and may be cited as, the
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE.
   B.   Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to the village's
procedures in connection with all of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes, as defined herein.
   C.   Definitions: Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them, respectively, as follows:
    ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village treasurer, who is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including village employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
section to give full effect to this section. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this section or the
act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village and not by an agency or
department of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real
property under the property tax code or fees collected by the village.
   NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   D.   Notices: Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be
given, the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar
days prior to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other
scheduled act of the local tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the
local tax administrator as follows:
      1.   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
      2.   Personal service or delivery.
   E.   Late Payment: Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required
to be made to the village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered
late unless it is: 1) physically received by the village on or before the due
date, or 2) received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
   F.   Payment: Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be
applied in the following order: 1) first to the tax due for the applicable
period; 2) second to the interest due for the applicable period; and 3) third
to the penalty for the applicable period.
   G.   Certain Credits And Refunds:
      1.   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
      2.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
not more than two (2) years after the end of the calendar year in which payment
in error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
      3.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
         a.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in
writing a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
            (1)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject
to the claim;
            (2)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
            (3)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
            (4)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
            (5)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with
the claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
         b.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
            (1)   Grant the claim; or
            (2)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a
statement as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
         c.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit.
   H.   Audit Procedure: Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local
administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this section.
      1.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
         a.   The tax;
         b.   The time period of the audit; and
         c.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
      2.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      3.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
      4.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
      5.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or
tax collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the
time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
      6.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the city's determination of the amount of overpayment.
      7.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
   I.   Appeal:
      1.   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
         a.   The reason for the assessment;
         b.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
         c.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
         d.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund
and collection process.
      2.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
      3.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
      4.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within
the forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment
shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
      5.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period.
   J.   Hearing:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under subsection
3-4-3I of this section, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
   K.   Interest And Penalties: In the event a determination has been made that
a tax is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax
must be paid within the time frame otherwise indicated:
      1.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to
be assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be
five percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365)
days and the number of days elapsed.
      2.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed
within the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late
filing penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown
as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent
(5%) of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   L.   Abatement: The local tax administrator shall have the authority to
waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file
penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists
for delay or failure to make a filing.
   M.   Installment Contracts: The village may enter into an installment
contract with the taxpayer for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax
ordinance. The local tax administrator may not cancel any installment contract
so entered unless the taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon
written notice by the local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30)
days delinquent, the taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any
delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen
(14) day period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the
installment contract with the local administrator, the installment contract
shall be canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
   N.   Review: The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review
all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any
amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after
receiving notice of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or
provide any tax still due and owing.
      1.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
(4) years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
      2.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
      3.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer.
   O.   Voluntary Disclosure: For any locally imposed and administered tax for
which a taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation,
or assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file
an application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of
the tax due. A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month,
for all periods prior to the filing of the application but not more than four
(4) years before the date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid
voluntary disclosure application may not be liable for any additional tax,
interest, or penalty for any period before the date the application was filed.
However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax
due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable
interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud
on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed
invalid and void. The payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than
ninety (90) days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or
the date agreed to by the local tax administrator. However, any additional
amounts owed as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid
under this section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final
determination and the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed
or the date agreed to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
   P.   Publication Of Tax Ordinances: Any locally administered tax ordinance
shall be published via normal or standard publishing requirements. The posting
of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication requirements.
Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request
at the village clerk's office.
   Q.   Internal Review Of Liens: The local tax administrator shall establish
an internal review procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers
for unpaid taxes. Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the
lien is valid, the lien shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is
determined to be improper, the local tax administrator shall:
      1.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
      2.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
      3.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
   R.   Application: This section shall be liberally construed and administered
to supplement all of the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax
ordinance is in conflict with or inconsistent with this section, this section
shall be controlling. (Ord. 01-01, 1-2-2001)
3-4-4: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
or meanings shall apply:
    AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   BAD DEBT: Any portion of a debt that is related to a sale at retail, for
which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or excludable and that has
become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under applicable federal
income tax standards.
   DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charge" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not include:
      1.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this section, b) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, c) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, d) 911 surcharges, or e) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
      2.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village;
      3.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a timesaving agreement;
      4.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
      5.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
      6.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith, between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries,
or between wholly owned subsidiaries, represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
      7.   Bad debt, provided that if the portion of the debt deemed to be bad
is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that portion
during the reporting period in which the payment is made;
      8.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
      9.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
and terminate within this state.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any village, town, county, or other
political subdivision of this state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales at
retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction
of the department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by the
department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
   SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments and state universities created by statute, and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries, or between wholly owned
subsidiaries, for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "a service address" shall mean the customer's place of primary use, as
defined in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to
ground systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a
taxpayer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by
telephone number, authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are
sent.
   TAXPAYER: A person who, individually or through his or her agents, employees
or permittees, engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village, and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this section.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, without limitation, messages or information transmitted through
use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service, private line services,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer exchange
services, cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio,
stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any other form of mobile and
portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite, or similar
facilities. As used in this section, "private line" means a dedicated
nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles the customer
to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of channels,
from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include value added services
in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
"Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by such provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the taxable end to end communications. Carrier access charges, right
of access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities, and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision of, used as a component
of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications service shall be
nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid telephone calling arrangements shall
not be considered "telecommunications" subject to the tax imposed under this
act. For purposes of this section, "prepaid telephone calling arrangements"
means that term as defined in section 2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax
act.
   B.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following
acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of six percent
(6%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that the
taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be allowed a
credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section, to
the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such other state
which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other state or local
tax in this state.
      3.   The tax imposed by this section is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
   C.   Collection Of Tax By Retailers:
      1.   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section, and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the department, shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
department in the manner provided by the department.
      2.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
   D.   Returns To Department: Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed
under this section on telecommunication retailers shall be returned with
appropriate forms and information as required by the department pursuant to the
Illinois simplified municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526,
section 5-50) and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the
department to implement such act.
   E.   Resellers:
      1.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purchases, and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
      2.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication
tax free when such actions are not, in fact, for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person's having discontinued the making of resales.
      3.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege
of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made
tax free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an
active resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the
retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such
person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 02-15, 9-3-2002,
eff. 1-1-2003)
3-4-5: AMUSEMENT TAX:
   A.   Definitions:
    AMUSEMENT: Shall include, but shall not be limited to, horse shows,
including the racing of horses, provided, however, that the riding of horses
not part of a horse show shall not be deemed an amusement for purposes of this
section.
   FACILITY OWNER: Any "person" (as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code) who owns or otherwise controls the property, including
building improvements located thereon, at or on which any "amusement" as
hereinabove defined is conducted, held or operated.
   HORSE SHOW: An exhibition of horses that includes competition in the riding,
driving and/or jumping of horses.
   ORGANIZER: Any "person" (as defined in section
1-3-2 of this code) who organizes, conducts or operates an "amusement", as
defined herein. (Ord. 08-02, 2-19-2008)
   B.   Tax; Amount: A horse show registrant tax at the rate of twelve dollars
fifty cents ($12.50) for each horse shown, ridden, used or exhibited in any
horse show is imposed on each person who registers such horse for inclusion in
any horse show. (Ord. 08-02, 2-19-2008; amd. Ord. 09-04, 4-7-2009, eff. 6-1-
2009; Ord. 11-02, 3-1-2011, eff. 6-1-2011)
   C.   Time Of Payment: The tax imposed herein shall be due and payable on or
before the conclusion of any horse show and shall be paid to the organizer of
the show. All taxes collected by the organizer shall be transmitted to the
village treasurer within fourteen (14) days of receipt.
   D.   Books And Records; Sale Or Transfer Of Amusement; Notice; Maintenance
Of Records; Final Audit: Organizers of shows subject to this section shall
maintain an accurate record of the number of horses participating in each show.
Such books and records shall be maintained for not less than twelve (12) months
following the conclusion of the show and shall be subject to inspection by the
village or its authorized agents at all reasonable times.
Any person liable for the collection and transmittal of the tax provided for
hereunder shall give the village thirty (30) days' prior written notice of the
pending sale or transfer of ownership of any such amusement business. Such
person shall maintain complete books and records covering the operation of the
amusement so taxed, for a period of twelve (12) months after such sale or
transfer. These books and records shall be subject to a final audit by the
village or its authorized agents at all reasonable times and shall be made
available to the village or its authorized agents at locations reasonably
convenient to same.
   E.   Reports:
      1.   On or before the fourteenth day after the conclusion of each show,
each person liable for the collection and transmittal of a tax hereunder shall
file with the village treasurer a written report in such form as the treasurer
may from time to time provide, stating the number of horses registered at horse
shows, during the preceding month. If the show is sanctioned by the United
States Equestrian Federation or other governing body which requires a standard
or technical delegate's report, such report shall be included with each
transmittal of the tax provided for herein.
      2.   Every "facility owner", as herein defined, shall provide to the
village clerk a list of the name, address and telephone number of the organizer
who conducts each horse show on or at the property of the facility owner, by
March 31 of each calendar year (if known at that time) but in no event less
than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which such show is to be held. Every
facility owner shall also provide each organizer with a copy of this section at
the time the facilities are leased/rented for said horse shows or within thirty
(30) days from the date of receipt of this section for show dates that have
been contracted for prior to the enactment of this section.
   F.   Interest And Penalties: Late payment, underpayment or nonpayment of any
tax due or collected hereunder shall be subject to interest and penalties as
set forth in the locally imposed and administered tax rights and responsibility
provisions of this code. Any person violating any other provision of this
section, upon being found guilty thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than the maximum amount permitted by subsection
1-4-1A of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. In
addition, if any violation is not corrected within ten (10) days after written
notice from the village clerk of any violation, the person responsible for the
operation of the amusement with respect to which the violation occurs shall be
prohibited from operating any amusement in the village until such violation is
corrected.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have relating to the enforcement of this
section, or the collection of the amount of any tax due hereunder. (Ord. 08-02,
2-19-2008)
3-4-6: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   B.   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in subsection A., above. The imposition of this tax is
in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   C.   Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   D.   Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this section with
the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before October 1, 2025).
   E.   Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this chapter shall take effect on
the later of:
      1.   January 1, 2026;
      2.   The first day of July next following the adoption and filing of
Ordinance 24-10 with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the
preceding April 1; or
      3.   The first day of January next following the adoption and filing Ord.
24-10 with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding
October 1.
(Ord. 24-10, 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 5
GARAGE AND SIMILAR SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Permit Required
3-5-3: Conditions Of Sales
3-5-4: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings, and are hereby
defined, as follows:
GARAGE SALE: Includes all general sales open to the public, conducted from a
residential premises for the purpose of disposing of personal property
including but not limited to all sales entitled "garage", "lawn", "yard",
"estate", "attic", "porch", "room", "backyard", "patios", "flea market" or
"rummage" sale. This definition shall not include a situation where no more
than five (5) specific items are held out for sale and all advertisements of
such sale specifically name those items to be sold.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Property which is owned, utilized and maintained by an
individual or members of his residence and acquired in the normal course of
living in or maintaining a residence. This term does not include merchandise
which was purchased for resale or obtained on consignment. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-
1989)
3-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No garage sale shall be conducted without a permit having first been issued by
the Village Clerk upon application therefor for each day of a sale. One permit
may be issued covering the maximum three (3) day sale period. If members of
more than one residence join in a garage sale, one permit shall be secured for
each location from which the sale is conducted. No more than three (3) permits
for garage sales shall be issued by the Village Clerk for any one sale day. The
Village Clerk shall keep a record of all permits issued, the location and date
(s) of each sale and the name of the applicant. The Corporate Authorities may,
by ordinance, prescribe a fee for the issuance of any permit required under
this section. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989)
3-5-3: CONDITIONS OF SALES:
   A.   Property Permitted To Be Sold: It shall be unlawful for any individual
to sell or offer for sale, under authority granted by this chapter, property
other than personal property. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989)
   B.   Multiple Residence Sale: Members of more than one residence may join in
a garage sale to be conducted at the residence of one of them, subject to the
limitations in the following subsection. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Limitation On Number Of Sales: No more than two (2) sales may be
conducted by members of one residence and/or family household during any
calendar year. If members of more than one residence join in conducting a sale,
then this sale shall be considered as one for each and all participating
residences.
   D.   Hours Of Operation: Such garage sales shall be limited in time to no
more than the daylight hours of three (3) consecutive days.
   E.   Display Of Sale Property: Personal property offered for sale may be
displayed within the residence, in a garage, carport and/or a rear yard, but
only in such areas. No personal property offered for sale at a garage sale
shall be displayed in the front or side yard areas of any such premises or in
any public right- of-way. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989)
   F.   Signs: With the consent of the property owner, a sign may be displayed
during the time that a garage sale is in progress on the property. Said sign
may be displayed only on the property of the residence where the garage sale is
being conducted during the time the sale is in progress, and may not exceed
eight (8) square feet in surface area. No such signs shall be posted outside of
such residential property nor to any utility poles or other public property.
The Zoning Officer of the Village reserves the right to disapprove the display
of a sign during the time in which a garage sale is in progress, and said
disapproval shall not be unreasonably exercised by the Zoning Officer of the
Village. (Ord. 19-14, 8-20-2019)
   G.   Maintenance Of Order: The individual conducting the sale and the owner
or tenant of the premises on which such sale or activity is conducted shall be
responsible for the maintenance of good order on the premises during such sale.
In the event good order is not maintained or the sale shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter, the person violating the provisions hereof shall be
subject to the penalties provided in accordance with section
3-5-4 of this chapter.
   H.   Parking: The Police Department may enforce temporary traffic and
parking controls to alleviate any hazards or congestion created by any garage
sale. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989)
3-5-4: PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. An action for enforcement and levying of fines
may also, in the discretion of the Corporate Authorities, include a prayer for
injunctive relief to prevent recurring violations. (Ord. 89-09, 5-2-1989)
CHAPTER 6
CABLE FRANCHISE AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Cable Franchise Regulations
3-6-3: Cable Operators And Video Service Providers; Franchise Or State
Authorization Required
3-6-4: Cable Operator And Video Service Provider Regulations
3-6-5: Fees Imposed; Payment, Accounting And Audits
3-6-6: Cable And Video Customer Protection Law
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement hereof,
and notwithstanding any inconsistent definitions contained elsewhere in this
code, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings set forth herein,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in item (5) of 47 USC 522.
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in item (6) of 47 USC 522.
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in item (7) of 47 USC 522.
COMPETITIVE CABLE OR VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER: A person or entity that is
providing or seeks to provide cable or video service in an area where there is
at least one incumbent cable operator.
COMPETITIVE VIDEO SERVICE SYSTEM: Facilities that are used to provide cable or
video service that are operated by a competitive cable or video service
provider.
CONSTRUCT: A. The installation of cables, lines, fibers or facilities that are
in or cross any rights of way within the village for use as part of a cable
system or competitive video service system; or
   B.   The connection of other facilities, directly or indirectly, to
previously existing cables, lines, fibers or facilities that are in or cross
rights of way within the village for use as part of a cable system or
competitive video service system.
FRANCHISE: That term as defined in item (9) of 47 USC 522.
FRANCHISE FEE: The fee imposed by the village on any franchisee, as authorized
pursuant to 47 USC 542 and this chapter for any service areas within the
territorial jurisdiction of the village.
FRANCHISEE: A person or entity that has a franchise with the village pursuant
to this chapter.
GROSS REVENUES: A. For franchisees: "gross revenues" shall be defined as in the
franchise.
   B.   For holders:
1. "Gross revenues" shall include all consideration of any kind or nature,
including, without limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind
contributions (services or goods) received by a holder for the operation of a
cable or video system, including any competitive video service system, to
provide cable or video services within the designated service area of the
holder within the village, including the following:
a. Recurring charges for cable or video service;
b. Event based charges for cable or video service, including, but not limited
to, pay per view and video on demand charges;
c. Rental of set top boxes and other cable or video service equipment;
d. Service charges related to the provision of cable or video service,
including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair charges;
e. Administrative charges related to the provision of cable or video service,
including, but not limited to, service order and service termination charges;
f. Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and other
charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments;
g. A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its affiliates
pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation of such
holder's network to provide cable or video service within the village. The
allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the village divided
by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional or
national compensation arrangement;
h. Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the operation of
such holder's network to provide cable or video service with respect to
commissions that are received by such holder as compensation for promotion or
exhibition of any products or services on such holder's network, such as a
"home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection B1i of this
definition;
i. In the case of a cable or video service that is bundled or integrated
functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the portion of
the holder's revenue attributable to the other services, capabilities, or
applications shall be included in the gross revenues unless such holder can
reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from its books and
records that are kept in the regular course of business; and
j. The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-
801(b).
2. "Gross revenues" shall not include any of the following:
a. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject to
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi);
b. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
gross revenues received by the holder to the extent the refund, rebate, credit,
or discount is attributable to cable or video service;
c. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or functionally
integrated with cable or video service, any revenues received from services not
classified as cable or video service, including, without limitation, revenue
received from telecommunication services, information services, or the
provision of directory or internet advertising, including yellow pages, white
pages, banner advertisements, and electronic publishing or any other revenues
attributed by the holder to noncable or nonvideo service as evidenced by such
holder's books and records and records kept in the regular course of business
and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders;
d. The sale of cable or video services for resale in which the purchaser is
required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's subscribers,
to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will resell the
service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service;
e. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the
transaction by a village, state, federal, or any other governmental entity and
collected by the holder, which tax or fee is required to be remitted to the
taxing entity, including sales and use taxes;
f. Security deposits collected from subscribers; and
g. Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
or video service.
3. Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the calculation of
gross revenues, to the extent that the treatment of the revenue as revenue of
the affiliate rather than such holder has the effect of evading the payment of
the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) which would
otherwise be paid by such holder.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401.
ICC: The Illinois commerce commission.
INCUMBENT CABLE OPERATOR: A person that provided cable services in a particular
area, with or without a franchise with the village as of the effective date
hereof.
INITIAL FRANCHISE SERVICE AREA: That portion of the franchise area served by
the franchisee's cable system as of the effective date of a franchise entered
by the village and a franchisee under this chapter.
PEG: Public, education, and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by a holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
PEG CAPITAL SUPPORT FEE: A fee to be paid to the village or to the entity
designated by the village to manage PEG access, if such a fee is required to be
paid by a franchisee in its franchise with the village.
PERSON: Individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited liability
corporations, limited liability partnerships and any other form of legal
entity.
RIGHTS OF WAY: That term as defined in section
7-8-2 of this code.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount to be paid to the village by a holder under
this chapter and 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 for any service areas
within the village's territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to, programming provided by a television broadcast station.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of video programming, and that is provided
through wireline facilities located, at least in part, in the rights of way
without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol technology.
This definition does not include any video programming provided by a commercial
mobile service provider, as defined in subsection (d) of 47 USC 332, or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet.
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER: Any person or group of persons who offers video service
in a manner other than as part of a cable system. (Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
3-6-2: CABLE FRANCHISE REGULATIONS:
Unless a cable operator has obtained a state issued authorization pursuant to
section 21-401 of the public utilities act 1 , a cable franchise shall be
required of any cable operator, which may, under the cable act (47 USC section
521 et seq.) and 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-11, be required to
obtain a cable franchise. The provisions of this chapter are applicable to
telecommunications franchises and open video systems, except as may be
otherwise provided by preemptive state or federal law; in which case, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to the maximum extent legally possible.
(Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
3-6-3: CABLE OPERATORS AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS; FRANCHISE OR STATE
AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Franchise Or State Authorization Required: Any cable operator or video
service provider, including any competitive cable or video service provider,
shall be required to either obtain a state issued authorization pursuant to
section 21-401 of the public utilities act 1  or obtain a franchise from the
village, pursuant to the authority granted to municipalities by state and
federal law, to license, franchise and tax the business of operating a cable
system or providing cable or video service. To the extent either state or
federal law is found to provide broader authority, the powers exercised herein
shall be deemed to be based on the broadest grant of authority to the village.
      1.   No person may construct, operate, maintain or obtain a permit to
construct a cable system or competitive video service system in the village to
provide cable or video service in the village without first obtaining a
franchise from the village or a state authorization from the ICC for the
construction of such a system.
      2.   No person operating a cable system or competitive video service
system may provide video programming to any person in the village unless a
franchise from the village or state authorization is in full force and effect
at all times while such service is being provided. A franchise may provide for
terms and conditions different from this chapter if negotiated between a cable
operator and the village and approved by the village board.
      3.   No person shall offer a cable or video service to subscribers within
the village except pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Franchises:
      1.   Nonexclusivity: All franchises granted pursuant to this chapter
shall be nonexclusive. The village board reserves the right to issue as many or
as few franchises as it deems advisable in the public interest.
      2.   Application: Each applicant for a franchise from the village shall
provide the following information:
         a.   Information Regarding Construction: Upon the application for a
franchise, the cable operator or video service provider shall provide the
village with information, including data relative to proposed and existing
construction of the cable system, and changes in operating conditions that may
affect or be likely to affect the rights of way.
         b.   Rate Information: An up to date copy of all the cable operator's
or video service provider's rates, rules, regulations and policies required
pursuant to the cable and video customer protection law 2 , which is adopted by
reference in section
3-6-6 of this chapter, shall be provided to the village clerk upon request, and
shall be provided to all subscribers.
      3.   Village Action On Applications: The village shall act expeditiously
on any request for a franchise, so as to allow the prompt provision of cable
service, while ensuring that the public interest is met and that residents are
not discriminated against based on race, ethnic status, income, or other
inappropriate basis.
      4.   Franchise Requirements: Each franchisee shall meet all of the
following requirements:
         a.   Applicants for a cable franchise shall specify in their
application for a franchise the geographic area within the corporate limits of
the village in which the applicant has provided or will provide cable service,
and the time frame in which any additional cable service will be provided.
         b.   To observe all applicable right of way, zoning, taxation, and
construction ordinances, codes, rules and regulations, in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
         c.   To designate a sufficient amount of capacity on its cable system
to allow the provision of public, educational and governmental access
consistent with the provisions of the cable act, if requested by the village.
         d.   To establish customer service standards and customer privacy
protections as set forth in the cable and video customer protection law 3 ,
which is adopted by reference in section
3-6-6 of this chapter.
   C.   Requirements For Holders: Each holder shall meet all the requirements
set forth in subsections B4b through B4d of this section.
   D.   Grant Of Authority: In accordance with this code, and upon providing
evidence of state authorization from the ICC or obtaining a franchise from the
village, a cable operator or video service provider is authorized to occupy or
use the rights of way within the geographical boundaries of the village to
construct, operate, maintain, repair, and upgrade existing facilities and
install new facilities for the purpose of providing cable or video service
within the geographical boundaries of the village.
   E.   Revocation: Any franchise executed pursuant to this chapter, or any
permit granted pursuant to this chapter or title 7, chapter 8 of this code, may
be revoked for violation of material provisions of this chapter, or violation
of the franchise, by a simple majority vote of the village board upon the
recommendation of the village president, after giving the franchisee or
permittee sixty (60) days' notice in writing of intention to revoke such
franchise or permit and after a hearing.
   F.   Enforcement And Penalties: Any person constructing, maintaining,
operating or offering to subscribers any cable or video service within the
village in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a penalty under this
provision. The village president, or a designee, shall provide reasonable
notice of the violations and conduct a hearing before imposition of a penalty.
The cable operator or video service provider shall be entitled to appeal the
decision of the village president or designee to the village board. The appeal
shall be filed with the village clerk no later than fourteen (14) days after
the decision of the village president or a designee and imposition of the
penalty, or other enforcement. (Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 2. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
3-6-4: CABLE OPERATOR AND VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Holders/Franchisees Subject To All Regulations: All holders and
franchisees shall be subject to the rules, regulations, and requirements of the
provisions of this chapter as are applicable to them.
   B.   Annual Registration Required: Every holder and franchisee occupying
rights of way within the village shall register on January 1 of each year with
the village clerk. Such annual registration shall include the company name,
address and regular business telephone and facsimile numbers, and the name of
one or more emergency contact person(s) with authority to act on behalf of the
company, including a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each.
   C.   Insurance: Each holder and franchisee shall annually provide the
village with evidence of insurance as required in section
7-8-8 of this code.
   D.   Fees Imposed: All holders and franchisees shall be required to pay fees
pursuant to section
3-6-5 of this chapter.
   E.   Construction Standards: All holders and franchisees shall be required
to comply with the construction standards in rights of way as set forth in
title 7, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
3-6-5: FEES IMPOSED; PAYMENT, ACCOUNTING AND AUDITS:
   A.   Fees To Be Paid By Franchisees:
      1.   Franchise Fee; Amount Of Fee: A fee in the amount of five percent
(5%) of the franchisee's gross revenues from the operation of the cable system
to provide cable service is imposed on any franchisee providing cable or video
service in the village, and each franchisee shall be liable to the village for
the payment of such fee.
      2.   PEG Capital Support Fee: In addition to the franchise fee imposed in
subsection A1 of this section, if a PEG capital support fee is required by a
franchise, the franchisee shall be liable to the village for and shall pay to
the village such PEG capital support fee.
   B.   Fees To Be Paid By Holders:
      1.   Service Provider Fee Imposed; Amount Of Fee: A fee in the amount of
five percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues is imposed on any holder
providing cable or video service in the village, and each holder shall be
liable to the village for the payment of such fee.
      2.   PEG Access Support Fee: In addition to the service provider fee
imposed in subsection B1 of this section, each holder providing cable or video
services in the village shall be liable to the village for and shall pay to the
village a PEG access support fee in the amount of one percent (1%) of the
holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The Village: Each holder or franchisee shall notify the
village at least ten (10) days prior to the date on which such holder or
franchisee first begins to offer cable or video service in the village.
   D.   Holder's/Franchisee's Liability: The holder or franchisee's liability
for the fees established in subsections A and B of this section shall commence
on the first day of the first calendar month that is thirty (30) days after
receipt of the ordinance adopting this chapter. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address of each
franchisee or holder, as set forth on its annual registration. Any incumbent
cable operator shall continue to pay the franchise fee agreed upon in its
existing franchise until such time as a new franchise is entered, and shall be
liable for payment thereof in accordance with the terms of such existing or new
franchise with the village as provided herein.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the franchise fee, PEG capital support
fee, service provider fee or PEG access support fee, as such fees may be
applicable to each holder or franchisee, shall be due to the village on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Accounting Principles Applicable: All determinations and calculations
under this chapter shall be made pursuant to generally accepted accounting
principles.
   G.   No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder Or Franchisee: Nothing
contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder or franchisee
from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax
that is or may later be required to be paid by or through such holder or
franchisee with respect to cable or video service, including, but not limited
to, any payment of the village's simplified municipal telecommunications tax or
any other tax as it applies to any telephone service provided by such holder or
franchisee and any payment of the village's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges.
   H.   Audits Of Holder Or Franchisee:
      1.   Audits Of Holders: The village will notify any holder of the
requirements it imposes on other holders to submit to an audit of their books
and records. Each holder shall comply with the same requirements the village
imposes on other holders within its jurisdiction to audit the books and records
and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of
the village. No acceptance of amounts remitted shall be construed as an accord
that the amounts are correct. Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum.
      2.   Audits Of Franchisees: Not more than once every two (2) years, the
village may request information from a franchisee for an audit of its franchise
fees in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
42-11.05. (Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
3-6-6: CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   The cable and video customer protection law 1 , as it may be amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference, and made applicable to the
cable operators and video service providers offering cable or video services
within the corporate boundaries of the village.
   B.   Any amendments to the cable and video customer protection law that
become effective after the effective date hereof adopting the requirements
established in this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by
reference and shall be applicable to cable operators or video service providers
offering cable or video services within the village; provided that any
amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities
shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action
by the village's corporate authorities.
   C.   The village does hereby declare its intent to enforce all of the
consumer protection and customer service and privacy protection standards of
the cable and video protection law pursuant to law, with respect to any
complaints received from village residents. (Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 5/22-501 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
(Ord. 11-17, 10-18-2011)
CHAPTER 8
LOTTERIES AND RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required
3-8-3: Conditions Of License
3-8-4: Persons Ineligible For License
3-8-5: Restrictions On Conduct Of Lottery
3-8-6: Lottery Manager; Bond
3-8-7: Keeping Of Records
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
LOTTERY: Shall include the word or term "raffles".
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit incurring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society, or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Lotteries shall be conducted only by organizations licensed pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
3-8-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses are subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The application for license must specify the area or areas within
the village in which lottery chances will be sold or issued, the time period
during which lottery chances will be sold or issued, the time of determination
of winning chances and the location or locations at which winning chances will
be determined.
      2.   The license application must contain a sworn statement attesting to
the not for profit character of the prospective license organization, signed by
the presiding officer and the secretary of their organization.
      3.   Each such license shall be valid for only one lottery.
      4.   A nonrefundable fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be paid
upon submission of a license application.
      5.   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations that operate
without profit to their members and which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a
license and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a nonprofit fundraising
organization that the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster. (Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
3-8-4: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No license under this chapter shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A1,
A2, or A3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or
in which such a person is active or employed;
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A1, A2, or
A3 of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or
not;
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A1, A2, or
A3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"lottery" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
3-8-5: RESTRICTIONS ON CONDUCT OF LOTTERY:
   A.   The conducting of lotteries is subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The entire net proceeds of any lottery must be exclusively devoted
to the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game;
      2.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization
may participate in the management or operation of the lottery;
      3.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating
in the management or operation of the lottery;
      4.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a lottery only from an organization which is also licensed
under this chapter;
      5.   Lottery chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified
on the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license;
      6.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in
the conducting of lotteries or purchase a chance. A person under the age of
eighteen (18) years may be within the area where winning chances are being
determined only when accompanied by his parent or guardian;
      7.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes and merchandise awarded by
a licensee in a single lottery shall not exceed two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00);
      8.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded in a single lottery
shall not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00);
      9.   The maximum price which may be charged for each lottery chance
issued or sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00);
      10.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.
   B.   If a lessor rents premises where a winning chance or chances on a
raffle are determined, the lessor shall not be criminally liable if the person
who uses the premises for the determining of winning chances does not hold a
license issued under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
3-8-6: LOTTERY MANAGER; BOND:
All operation of and the conduct of lotteries shall be under the supervision of
a single lottery manager designated by the organization. The manager shall give
a fidelity bond in the sum of an amount equal to one-half (1/2) the maximum
value of prizes or chances to be sold, whichever is greater, to the village in
favor of the organization conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of
his duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in
writing to the licensing authority not less than thirty (30) days prior to its
cancellation. The village president may waive the bond requirement by including
a waiver provision in the license issued to an organization under this chapter,
provided that a license containing such waiver provision shall be granted only
by a unanimous vote of the members of the licensed organization. (Ord. 08-06,
6-3-2008)
3-8-7: KEEPING OF RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct lotteries shall keep the records
of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single gathering or
occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions from gross
receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented with
receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased
item or service or other reason for the deductions, and the recipient. The
distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment.
   B.   Gross receipts from the operation of lottery programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including charitable games
gross receipts, if such games are also conducted by the same nonprofit
organization pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue
of the state of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization
shall have separate records of its lotteries. The person who accounts for gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of lotteries shall not
be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct lotteries shall report monthly to
its membership, and upon demand to the village, its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds from lotteries, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized
as required in this chapter.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 08-06, 6-3-2008)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Licenses Required
4-1-3: Application For License
4-1-4: Recycling Requirements
4-1-5: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
4-1-6: Violation; Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: Any rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion and
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the
preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits or vegetables and any other matter of any nature, which are subject to
decay, putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor,
or, which during or after decay, may serve as a breeding or feeding material
for rodents, flies or other germ carrying insects or animals; provided,
however, that "garbage" shall not mean or include yard waste such as grass,
leaves or hedge and grass clippings. For purposes of this chapter, "manure"
shall not be considered "garbage".
RECYCLING CONTAINER: A container for the recycling of garbage, refuse and solid
waste.
REFUSE: Any or all of the following solid wastes produced as a result of normal
household functions: ashes, bottles, cans, cartons, books, newspapers, other
paper products or boxes; provided, however, that "refuse" shall not mean or
include yard waste such as grass, leaves, or hedge and grass clippings.
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER: Includes, without limitation, any person or persons
occupying residential premises regardless of the type of contract designation
placed upon service to such premises by a waste hauler.
RESIDENTIAL PREMISES: Includes any house, residence, building, flat, apartment,
dwelling place or other place of abode, but not including any business,
commercial or industrial establishment, hotel, church, school, hospital, club
meeting or meeting hall.
WASTE HAULER/GARBAGE COLLECTOR: A person, firm, corporation or entity who hauls
or collects garbage, refuse and other solid waste for hire in the village.
(Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995; amd. 1998 Code)
4-1-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Waste Hauler Or Garbage Collector Licenses: No waste hauler or garbage
collector shall be permitted to pick up, haul or remove garbage, refuse or
other solid waste from any residential premises within the village without
first obtaining a license therefor. The maximum number of licenses issued
pursuant to this section for waste haulers or garbage collectors who provide
residential curbside collection service on a repeat basis shall be five (5). It
shall be the purpose of the village in issuing any such license to seek the
highest quality and quantity of service at the lowest economic cost to each
village resident. No license issued pursuant to this section shall be
transferrable.
   B.   Recycling Services Prerequisite To License: No waste hauler or garbage
collector shall collect garbage, refuse or other solid waste from any
residential premises in the village unless such hauler or collector shall
provide a special curbside collection service for aluminum and bimetal cans,
newspapers and glass bottles on the same day as such garbage collector's
regular collection.
   C.   Limitation On Franchises: Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter
to the contrary, all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject
to early termination at such time as the president and Board of Trustees issue
one or more franchises by which the hauling or collecting of garbage, refuse,
other solid waste and the provision of recycling services is to be limited to
one or more franchisees of the Village.
   D.   Collection Timeframe: A waste hauler or garbage collector license shall
permit the collection of garbage, refuse, or other solid waste from any
residential premises to occur only between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on dates or such other times as the Corporate Authorities
shall determine. The license shall on its face provide notice that the dates
and times of collection may change at the discretion of the Corporate
Authorities at any time. (Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995; amd. Ord. 10-20, 10-5-2010;
Ord. 18-20, 10-16-2018; Ord. 21-08, 3-16-2021; Ord. 22-04, 7-19-2022)
4-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Requirements For License: Every application for issuance of a
residential waste hauling and garbage collection license shall be in accordance
with the following requirements and standards:
      1.   Every applicant must demonstrate that he has adequate and sufficient
equipment, personnel and financial responsibility to render service to any
customer requesting it and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Every applicant must agree to provide the range of service options
established by the Village and to serve any resident of the Village requesting
and paying for any of said service options;
      3.   Every applicant must agree both to permit the Village to review his
rate structure and to provide the Village with financial records and statements
as may be required for the purpose of establishing and maintaining fair rates
to each class of customer and to provide for adequate and sanitary collection;
      4.   Every licensee shall carry public liability insurance in an amount
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) each person and one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) each accident bodily injury liability plus a minimum of
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) of property damage insurance, and
workers' compensation for his employees as required by the workers'
compensation and occupation diseases statutes of the State naming the Village
as an additional insured thereunder;
      5.   Every licensee shall agree to hold harmless and indemnify, and shall
defend the Village and its employees, officials and agents against any and all
claims, losses, injury, damages, suits, demands, actions and causes of actions,
expenses, fees and costs arising out of its operations within the Village;
      6.   In the event a duly licensed waste disposal firm violates any
provisions of this chapter, the Village shall have the right, in addition to
enforcing against such firm the penalties hereinafter provided, to revoke the
license of such waste disposal firm; and the President and Board of Trustees
reserve the right to deny any applicant a license if any reasonable doubt
exists as to the applicant's reasonable compliance with subsection A1 through
A6 of this section, inclusive.
   B.   License Issued: The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to
issue licenses to garbage collectors and waste haulers for residential solid
waste, garbage and refuse collection and waste hauling upon application
therefor and payment of the license fee prescribed herein, upon meeting the
requirements of subsection A of this section. (Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995)
   C.   License Fee: The annual license fee for residential waste hauling and
garbage collection is hereby established at two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). In the event the President and Board of Trustees issue any franchise
(s) as provided in subsection
4-1-2C of this chapter, within the first six (6) months of the annual license
term, the holder of any license terminated thereby shall be eligible for a
fifty percent (50%) refund of the license fee paid. From and after the
effective date of any franchise(s), the number of licenses authorized shall be
equal to the number of franchises issued. (Ord. 10-20, 10-5-2010)
4-1-4: RECYCLING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Mandatory Service: Each waste hauler or garbage collector shall be
required to provide curbside recycling pick up service for all of its
residential customers in Wayne who voluntarily participate in such recycling
program, regardless of whether or not such customers are located in an area of
the Village where such garbage collector or waste hauler provides garbage
collection service, for a substantial group of customers whose properties are
contiguous to, or located near, each other.
   B.   Fees: Garbage collectors or waste haulers shall be entitled to charge
all of the residential customers in the Village for whom they currently provide
service an additional fee not to exceed one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per
month to pay for the cost of providing such recycling service, regardless of
whether or not such residents participate in the voluntary recycling program.
Such additional fee shall not be increased without the approval of the Village.
Residential customers with commercial contracts shall not be charged in excess
of one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per month. (Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995; amd. 1998
Code)
4-1-5: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
   A.   Burn Or Incinerate Garbage, Refuse Or Solid Waste: No garbage, refuse
or other solid waste shall be burned, incinerated, dumped, scattered or buried
within the Village limits by any person, nor shall any person suffer or permit
the burning, incineration, dumping, scattering or burying of garbage, refuse or
other solid waste within the corporate limits of the Village.
   B.   Transporting Garbage, Refuse Or Solid Waste:
      1.   No person shall transport garbage, refuse or other solid waste, or
cause garbage, refuse or other solid waste to be transported over the streets
or other public ways in the Village unless such garbage, refuse or other solid
waste being transported is entirely and securely covered. Garbage shall not be
transported over or along the streets of the Village or other public property
except in a leakproof compaction type body commonly referred to as a "packer"
refuse body, approved by the Village.
      2.   Any waste hauler or garbage collector shall immediately clean up any
refuse that he may have caused to spill onto private premises, parkways,
streets, alleys or other public places in the Village, in a neat and
workmanlike manner and shall replace, at his expense, any recycling container
which may be seriously damaged by carelessness of his employees.
   C.   Only Licensed Haulers To Pick Up Recycling Materials: It shall be
unlawful for any person other than a licensed garbage collector or waste hauler
to pick up any recyclable materials, including, but not limited to, aluminum
and bimetal cans, newspapers and glass bottles, from a recycling container.
(Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995)
4-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
The Village shall be permitted to institute an action on behalf of or for the
benefit of any residents of the Village who are aggrieved by any violation of
this chapter. In addition to any fines assessed pursuant to this section, the
Village shall be permitted to recover any illegal or excessive charges
collected in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 95-19, 10-17-1995; amd. 1998
Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Enforcement
4-2-3: Storage Of Building And Construction Waste
4-2-4: Prohibited Acts
4-2-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 7, Chapter 5 of this Code.
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter:
APPROVED CONTAINER: Rubbish or refuse containers the type, size and number of
which shall be as approved by the Building and Zoning Department of the Village
prior to the issuance of the building permit based upon the size and nature of
the particular construction project.
CONSTRUCTION SITE:
   A.   The entire parcel as to which construction, reconstruction, renovation,
rehabilitation, demolition or excavation is being carried on, on any part for
which a building permit of the Building and Zoning Department is required; and
   B.   Any parcel which is adjacent to and under common ownership with, a
parcel which is as described in subsection A of this definition.
PERSON: Includes, but does not limit, any owner of any construction site, any
permittee under a building permit and any contractor, subcontractor or
materialman. (Ord. 89-04, 3-21-1989)
4-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The Village Building and Zoning Department shall enforce the provisions of this
Chapter. The Police Department shall inform the Building and Zoning Department
of violations observed during patrol. (Ord. 89-04, 3-21-1989)
4-2-3: STORAGE OF BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION WASTE:
Building and construction waste materials shall be stored, until removed from
the site, in approved containers, either equipped with closable lids or loaded
in such a manner as to prevent waste materials from blowing out of the
container. Full containers shall be promptly removed from the construction site
and all containers shall be promptly removed at the completion of construction.
(Ord. 89-04, 3-21-1989)
4-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Use Of Public Ways Prohibited: Store or accumulate building or
construction waste material, debris, rubbish or refuse on any public street,
alley, sidewalk or other public way unless properly stored.
   B.   Littering Prohibited: Permit building or construction waste material,
debris, rubbish or refuse originating at the construction site to litter the
construction site or adjoining properties 1 .
   C.   Burning Prohibited: To burn any construction waste material, debris,
rubbish or refuse on a construction site. (Ord. 89-04, 3-21-1989; amd. 1998
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 8, Chapter 5 of this Code.
4-2-5: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be:
      1.   Subject to immediate revocation of his or its building permit and/or
the issuance of a stop-work order; and
      2.   Fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Injunctive Relief: Any action brought to enforce this Chapter may
include, or seek in the alternative, injunctive relief to prevent recurring
violations. (Ord. 89-04, 3-21-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisances Prohibited
4-3-2: Abatement Of Nuisances
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or do any act which endangers the
public health or which results in annoyances or discomfort to the public.
   A.   Littering: It shall be unlawful for any person to discard at any place
within the village, packages, wrapping, bottles, cans or other matter. It shall
be unlawful to deposit anywhere within the village limits, junk trash and
refuse. "Junk", "trash" and "refuse" are hereby defined to include any and all
waste matter, whether reusable or not, which is dangerous or offensive to the
public health or safety, or to the maintenance of property values of adjoining
real estate, and is specifically intended to include, but is not limited to,
worn out, wrecked and/or abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors, machinery of
any kind, any parts thereof, building materials, old iceboxes, refrigerators
and stoves, washing machines, furniture and other appliances.
   B.   Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit anywhere within the village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage,
offal or carcasses of dead animals. Such refuse must be disposed of in a
sanitary manner as provided by the regulations of the village. Any uncovered
pile of refuse, garbage, or offal is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   C.   Abandonment Of Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to
abandon any motor vehicle or components thereof on any public street or alley,
on any public property, or on the property of another person.
   D.   Storage Of Unlicensed And/Or Inoperable Vehicles: It shall be unlawful
to store an inoperable and/or unlicensed vehicle or parts thereof under such
conditions and in such locations that such storage may constitute a public
nuisance.
   E.   Maintenance Of Buildings And Structures: It shall be unlawful to permit
any building, structure, or place to remain in such condition as to constitute
a menace to public health and safety and any such condition is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
   F.   Fire Hazards:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any condition under
his control which constitutes an undue risk of fire. (Ord. 78-17, 11-13-1978)
      2.   In the disposal by burning of any wood, leaves, or other combustible
matter, it shall be the responsibility of the person conducting such disposal
to take all reasonable precautions against the spreading of fire, provided
however, that this subsection shall not be construed to permit or allow the
burning of any building, structure, or part thereof, nor the burning of
construction debris. (Ord. 03-09, 6-3-2003)
      3.   In times of prolonged drought and consequent risk of fire, the mayor
may, by proclamation published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village, forbid all burning except in properly designed and maintained
incinerators for the duration of the condition of drought. (Ord. 78-17, 11-13-
1978)
4-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of any
nuisance on any property under his control, whether such nuisance is
specifically recognized by ordinance or not. The zoning enforcement officer,
director of building and zoning, chief of police, or such other person as may
be authorized, is empowered to abate any such nuisance existing in the village
and the cost of such abatement shall be borne by the person responsible for the
nuisance abated. (Ord. 78-17, 11-13-1978; amd. 1998 Code)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person who causes, erects, or continues any nuisance shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every nuisance, when a conviction therefor is had, may, by
order of the court, before which conviction is had, be abated by the zoning
enforcement officer or other proper officer at the expense of the defendant,
and it shall be no defense in any proceeding under this chapter that the
nuisance is erected or continued by virtue of any law of this state. (Ord. 78-
17, 11-13-1978; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WEED CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Title
4-4-2: Weed Control And Grass Height Restrictions
4-4-3: Lien Rights
4-4-4: Penalty
4-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the VILLAGE OF WAYNE WEED CONTROL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 95-11A, 7-11-1995)
4-4-2: WEED CONTROL AND GRASS HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Uncontrolled Weed Growth Prohibited And Grass Height Restrictions:
      1.   Nuisance Declared: All weeds, including but not limited to weeds
which due to pollination are a menace to health and weeds otherwise injurious
to public health or welfare and all landscape, lawn and other yard grass,
exceeding the height restrictions established by this section, are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
      2.   Height Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
controlling, or in lawful possession of, any real property within the Village
to permit the growth of said weeds or landscape, lawn and other yard grass
thereon to a height in excess of ten inches (10") within the front yard of any
residential real property or within two hundred feet (200') of any developed
lot or tract of land anywhere in the Village.
   B.   Property Subject To Provisions; Exceptions: "Developed lot or tract"
shall mean any land with a building, park or street. This chapter shall not
apply to any wooded or forested area or to any natural or prairie landscaped
area developed in accordance with a documented plan prepared by a landscape
architect or person of similar qualifications.
All lots in any residential subdivision located in the W3 or W4 Single-Family
Residence Districts where the subdivision was graded or the real property is
otherwise disturbed as a result of development activity shall be considered a
"developed lot or tract" regardless of whether any improvements have been
constructed thereon. No real property shall be exempt from the application of
this chapter solely on account of any purported agricultural use of said real
property. (Ord. 18-15, 8-7-2018)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Village Remedies; Costs: When the owner or person in
control of any real property fails to maintain grass or weeds on said real
property as provided in this chapter, the Village official charged with the
inspection of property and enforcement of this section is granted the authority
to and shall (following the notice required by section
4-4-3 of this chapter) cut or cause to be cut said grass or weeds to achieve
compliance with this section, and any expenses incurred by the Village in so
doing, but no less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per cutting, shall
constitute a lien against said real property until the Village is fully
reimbursed, and may be recovered together with all attorney fees and court
costs incurred by the Village to recover the aggregate of said amount from said
owner or person in control in an appropriate action at law or in equity. (Ord.
19-03, 6-4-2019)
4-4-3: LIEN RIGHTS:
   A.   Removal Notice: It shall be the duty of the Director of the Building
and Zoning Department to serve or cause to be served a written notice upon the
owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or plants are permitted to
grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter and to demand the abatement
of the nuisance within seven (7) days from the date of said notice.
   B.   Abatement: If the person so served with notice does not abate the
nuisance within seven (7) days, the Director of the Building and Zoning
Department may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of the
expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged and paid by such
owner or occupant.
   C.   Lien: Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises
pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-6 and 5/11-20-7, provided
that within sixty (60) days after such cost and expense is incurred, the
Director of the Building and Zoning Department of the Village, or person
performing the service by authority of the Village, in his own name, files a
notice of lien in the Office of the Recorder in the Counties of DuPage or Kane,
State of Illinois, in which the property is situated. The notice shall consist
of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred or payable for the service, and 3) the date or dates
when such cost and expense was incurred by the Village. However the lien of the
Village shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights in and to such real
estate have arisen subsequent to the weed cutting and prior to the filing of
such notice, and the lien of the Village shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose rights in and to such real
estate arise prior to the filing of such notice. Upon payment of the cost and
expense by the owner of or persons interested in such property after notice of
lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the Village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of record as in
the case of filing notice of lien.
   D.   Lien Foreclosure: Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the
name of the Village.
The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute lien
proceedings, in the name of the Village, in any court having jurisdiction over
such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid sixty
(60) days after it has been rendered. (Ord. 95-11A, 7-11-1995)
4-4-4: PENALTY:
In addition to all other rights and remedies granted the Village any person
violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum
as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day a violation of this chapter
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense and a fine shall be
imposed in an appropriate amount for each day's violation. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-
2016)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Title
4-5-2: Loud, Disturbing And Unnecessary Noises Enumerated
4-5-3: Prohibited Acts, Conditions
4-5-4: Penalty
4-5-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the NOISE ORDINANCE and shall be cited and will
be referred to herein as "this Chapter". (Ord. 86-06, 10-13-1986)
4-5-2: LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES ENUMERATED:
It is hereby declared that excessive sound or noise is a serious hazard to the
public health, welfare, safety and quality of life in the Village. It shall be
unlawful for any person to make or allow, continue or cause to be made or
allowed, or continued, any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise
which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of others within the limits of the Village as provided
below.
   A.   Definitions:
      1.    Terminology used herein shall be in conformance with the applicable
publications of the American National Standard Institute (ANSI) or its
successor.
      2.   "Weighted Sound Level" means the sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the "A" weighing network. The level so
read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
   B.   Noise Control Regulation: The following are declared to be in violation
of this Section, but said enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      1.   Causing or allowing the emission of sound or noise from any source
that (a) is clearly audible at a distance of seventy-five feet (75') or more
from the source, or (b) is clearly audible at a distance of fifty feet (50')
from the property line of the source property, or
      2.   Causing or allowing the emission of sound or noise during daytime
hours (7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.) from any noise source to any receiving
residential land which exceeds 60 dBA when measured at any point within such
receiving residential land, provided, however, that point of measurement shall
be on the property line of the complainant, or
      3.   Causing or allowing the emission of sound during night time hours
(10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.) from any noise source to any receiving residential
land which exceeds 55 dBA when measured at any point within such receiving
residential land, provided, however, that point of measurement shall be on the
property line of the complainant.
      4.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling
device on any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public
place of the Village except as a danger warning; the creation, by means of any
such signaling device, of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held
up.
      5.   Radios, Phonographs; Hours: The using, operating or permitting to be
played, used or operated any radio, television, stereo, musical instrument or
other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such
manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring
inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the person or persons who are in the room or immediate area in
which such device is operated and who are voluntary listeners thereto. The
operation of any such device between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible
at a distance of fifty feet (50') from the building structure or vehicle in
which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
Section.
      6.   Loud Speakers And Amplifiers For Advertising: The using, operating
or permitting to be used, played or operated of any television, radio, musical
instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or other machine or
device for the producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure.
      7.   Animals And Birds: The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any persons in the vicinity.
      8.   Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion machine, motor boat or motor
vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom, and exceeds the limits as described
in subsections 1-3 hereof. It is a public nuisance to operate off road motor
vehicles, including motorcycles, mini-bikes, all terrain cycles, snowmobiles or
other like or similar motor vehicles, on private property where the noise from
which exceeds the levels described in subsections 1-3 hereof, or to operate the
same between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. except for purposes of
maintenance and driven not above the speed needed to keep the vehicle moving
forward.
      9.   Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud and
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise. (1998 Code)
      10.   Construction Or Repair Work; Hours: The construction, including,
without limitation, the excavation, demolition, alteration or repair for or of
any building or the excavating of streets or highways ("construction activity")
between the following hours ("construction hours"):
         Monday through Friday - seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.
         Saturdays and Sundays - eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.
      Except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety, as determined by the building official. If the building official shall
determine that the public health and safety will not be impaired by
construction activity outside the construction hours, and if he shall further
determine that loss or inconvenience would result to any party in interest, he
may grant permission for construction activity to take place outside the
construction hours upon application being made at the time the permit for the
work issued or during the progress of the work.
   C.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the limits described in
section 4-5-2 of this chapter provided, however, that reasonable steps shall be
taken by those in charge of such operations to minimize noise emanating from
the same:
      1.   Emergency short term operations which are necessary to protect the
health and welfare of the citizens, such as emergency utility and street
repair, fallen tree removal or emergency fuel oil delivery or sirens, whistles,
or bells lawfully used by emergency vehicles, or other alarm systems used in
case of fire, collision, civil defense, police activity, or imminent danger.
The provisions of this chapter shall also not apply to any noise required
specifically by law for the protection or safety of people or property.
      2.   Repairs or excavations of streets or highways by or on behalf of the
Village, the county, or the state, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., when public welfare and convenience renders it impractical to perform the
work between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. or repairs of utility structures which
pose a clear and immediate danger to life, health, or significant loss of
property.
      3.   Reasonable activities conducted on public playgrounds and public or
private school grounds, which are conducted in accordance with the manner in
which such spaces are generally used, including but not limited to school
athletic and school entertainment events and other outdoor events or
gatherings, public dances, shows and sporting events, and other similar outdoor
events, provided that the same is permitted by ordinance or a permit has been
obtained from the Village.
      4.   Powered equipment such as lawn mowers, small lawn and garden tools,
and riding tractors which is necessary for the maintenance of property, is kept
in good repair and maintenance, and which equipment, when new, would not comply
with the standards set forth in this chapter, This exemption shall only apply
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays, and 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Sundays.
      5.   Community Events, which shall include such things as parades,
festivals, sports events, Fourth of July and Flag Day celebrations, sanctioned
or sponsored in whole or in part by local governments, churches, schools or
charitable or service organizations, or authorized by the Village, or for which
a temporary exemption has been issued by the Chief of Police.
   D.   Sound Meter: The Chief of Police is authorized to determine the type of
sound level meter using the "A" weighing network as approved by ANSI to be used
and to determine the appropriate training and sound measurement procedures to
be implemented.
   E.   Variance: Upon application, a permit may be issued hereunder by the
Chief of Police, for a temporary exemption to the noise ordinance for a set
period of time for private parties or other public events.. Said permit may be
denied if in the discretion of the Chief of Police, said event would constitute
a safety hazard, (including but not limited to, excess amounts of people in
attendance, insufficient parking, prior violations by applicant of Village
ordinances, etc.). The Chief of Police may further set reasonable limitations
or conditions on the grant of said permit. (Ord. 98-21, 12-1-1998; amd. Ord.
20-14, 7-7-2020)
4-5-3: PROHIBITED ACTS, CONDITIONS:
Unless otherwise exempted herein, it shall be unlawful to make or cause to be
made any noises or sounds of such volume or such nature as to cause annoyance,
disturbance, injury or endangerment to the comfort, repose, convenience, peace
or safety of residents or other individuals who are within the corporate limits
of the village, or to disturb the peace by the making of any noise as defined
in subsections B.1. - 3. of section
4-5-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 86-06, 10-13-1986; amd. 1998 Code; amd. Ord. 20-
14, 7-7-2020)
4-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined a sum as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each date on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 16-03,
5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 6
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Burning Of Garbage Or Refuse Prohibited
4-6-3: Open Burning Restrictions
4-6-4: Prohibitions
4-6-5: Exemption
4-6-6: Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: Any rejected or waste household food, offal, swill or carrion and
every accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter that attends the
preparation, use, cooking and dealing in, or storage of meats, fish, fowl,
fruits or vegetables and any other matter of any nature, which are subject to
decay, putrefaction and the generation of noxious or offensive gases or odor,
or, which during or after decay, may serve as a breeding or feeding material
for rodents, flies or other germ carrying insects or animals; provided,
however, that "garbage" shall not mean or include landscape waste.
For purposes of this chapter, "manure" shall not be considered "garbage".
LANDSCAPE WASTE: Any vegetable or plant material, trees, tree trimmings,
branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass, shrubbery or like manner of
things.
OPEN BURNING: The combustion of any matter in such a manner that the products
of combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in or passing
through any equipment.
REFUSE: Ashes, bottles, cans, cartons, books, newspapers, other paper products
or boxes, materials, waste or debris resulting from construction sites;
provided, however, that "refuse" shall not mean or include landscape waste.
(Ord. 00-09, 4-18-2000)
4-6-2: BURNING OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE PROHIBITED:
The open burning of garbage or refuse shall be prohibited at all times. (Ord.
00-09, 4-18-2000)
4-6-3: OPEN BURNING RESTRICTIONS:
The open burning of landscape waste, shall be prohibited during the times,
under the conditions and in the locations, as follows:
   A.   On cloudy or overcast days; and
   B.   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M.; and
   C.   During such times that the wind is in excess of ten (10) miles per
hour; and (Ord. 00-09, 4-18-2000)
   D.   Within twenty feet (20') of any building or structure or within ten
feet (10') of any property line; or under or within ten feet (10') of the drip
line of any tree; and (Ord. 00-21, 11-7-2000)
   E.   During those times when the health departments of either DuPage or Kane
County have determined and announced that weather inversion conditions exist;
and
   F.   On public roads, alleys, sidewalks or easements; and
   G.   When the material being burned is other than dry landscape waste; and
   H.   When a fire extinguisher or garden hose or other source of water is
unavailable; and
   I.   When the open burning is unsupervised; and (Ord. 00-09, 4-18-2000)
   J.   Open burning of waste, where such waste was not generated from or by
vegetation growing on the property where the open burning is taking place.
(Ord. 00-21, 11-7-2000)
4-6-4: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   The open burning of waste which is not generated from plants growing on
the site where the open burning is taking place is prohibited at all times and
under all conditions. (Ord. 01-17, 11-20-2001)
   B.   The burning of any building, structure, or part thereof, or
construction debris for any purpose is prohibited at all times and under all
conditions. (Ord. 03-09, 6-3-2003)
4-6-5: EXEMPTION:
The open burning of landscape waste for prairie reclamation, recreational,
ceremonial or cooking purposes or the burning in fireplaces contained within a
residence or business shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-09, 4-18-2000; amd. Ord. 01-17, 11-20-2001)
4-6-6: PENALTY:
Any person who is convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalty set forth in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 00-09, 4-18-2000; amd. Ord. 01-17, 11-20-2001)
CHAPTER 7
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
SECTION:
4-7-1: Adoption By Reference
4-7-2: Notice Of Full Participation
4-7-3: Deletions, Modifications And Amendments
4-7-4: Penalties
4-7-1: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of establishing regulations and
standards for the detection and elimination of illicit discharges into the
storm drainage system throughout the village the "DuPage County illicit
discharge detection and elimination ordinance" (the "county ordinance") in
effect on May 26, 2009, as the illicit discharge detection elimination
ordinance of the village, as if fully set forth in this chapter, and each and
all of the regulations therein, including any and all amendments that may, from
time to time, be adopted by the county of DuPage. Copies thereof shall be made
available in the department of building and zoning. (Ord. 09-25, 12-16-2009)
4-7-2: NOTICE OF FULL PARTICIPATION:
This chapter shall serve as notice that the village has chosen to be a "full
participant" with the county of DuPage, as provided for in section 16-31(1) of
the county ordinance, for purposes of the enforcement of the county ordinance
within the village's territorial jurisdiction. (Ord. 09-25, 12-16-2009)
4-7-3: DELETIONS, MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
The following deletions, modifications and amendments to the county ordinance
shall be effective and applicable in the village:
   A.   Section 16-12 (Definitions) is amended by:
      1.   Deleting the definition for "committee" in its entirety, and
replacing it with the words "the stormwater oversight committee of the
village".
      2.   Deleting the definition of "department" in its entirety, and
replacing it with the words "the village engineer".
      3.   Deleting the definition of "director" in its entirety, and replacing
it with the words "the village engineer".
      4.   Adding the following to the list of definitions: "Village. The
village of Wayne, Illinois".
   B.   Section 16-31 (Participating Communities) is amended by deleting the
word "department" in paragraphs 1b, 1c, and 1e, and replacing it with the words
"DuPage County stormwater management division".
   C.   Section 16-33 (Duties Of Director) is amended by deleting the word
"communities" in paragraph 3, and replacing it with the words "DuPage County
stormwater management committee".
   D.   Section 16-34 (Representative Capacity) is amended by deleting the word
"county", and replacing it with the word "village".
   E.   Section 16-42 (Prohibitions Of Illicit Connections) is amended by
deleting the word "department" in the last sentence of paragraph 5, and
replacing it with the words "DuPage County stormwater management division".
   F.   Section 16-50 (Submission Of Notice Of Intent (NOI) To The Department)
is amended by deleting the word "department" in paragraphs 1, 2, and 3, and
replacing it with the words "DuPage County stormwater management division".
   G.   Section 16-56 (Compliance Monitoring) is amended by deleting the word,
"department", in paragraph 1b, and replacing it with the words, "DuPage County
stormwater management division".
   H.   Section 16-62 (Notice To Correct Violations: Director May Take Action)
is amended by deleting the words "county of DuPage" from paragraph 2, and
replacing them with the words "village of Wayne".
   I.   Section 16-86 (Right Of Appeal) is amended by:
      1.   Deleting the words "stormwater committee of the DuPage County board"
from paragraph 1, and replacing them with the word "committee".
      2.   Deleting the words "county board" from paragraphs 3 and 4, and
replacing them with the words "president and board of trustees". (Ord. 09-25,
12-16-2009)
4-7-4: PENALTIES:
In addition to all other remedies provided for in article 8 of the county
ordinance, any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined a sum as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each and every day or portion of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable by such a fine. (Ord. 16-
03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 8
LICENSE FOR LIVESTOCK
SECTION:
4-8-1: License Granted
4-8-2: Violations
4-8-1: LICENSE GRANTED:
A license is hereby granted pursuant to section
10-7-5 of this Code to any person or entity electing to keep livestock pursuant
to said section
10-7-5 of this Code subject to compliance with all zoning regulations and the
police regulations in section
5-1-2 of this Code regarding animals. (Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019)
4-8-2: VIOLATIONS:
A violation of the zoning regulations as they relate to the use of keeping
livestock, or the police regulations regarding animals, shall be deemed a
nuisance and violation of this section for which the Village may enter onto the
premises to abate the nuisance and recover all costs and fees arising therefrom
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorney fees for enforcement and
collection of said costs and fees plus penalties) which shall be secured by a
lien against the premises (which may further be recorded) until reimbursed in
full to the Village, and three (3) or more violations in one year shall result
in the loss of the right to keep or maintain livestock on the lot on which the
violations occurred for a period of no less or more than one year from the date
of the third (3rd) violation. (Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC CAMPING
SECTION:
4-9-1: Purpose
4-9-2: Public Camping As A Nuisance
4-9-3: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
4-9-4: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
4-9-5: Definitions
4-9-6: Public Camping Prohibited
4-9-7: Exceptions To Prohibition
4-9-8: Removal Of Campsite
4-9-9: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
4-9-10: Penalty; Mitigation
4-9-11: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
4-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Village of Wayne is a non-home rule Illinois municipality pursuant
to the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970, as amended; and
   B.   Pursuant to Section 1-1-4 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-
1-4), the Village has those powers conferred upon it by the Illinois Municipal
Code; and
   C.   Section 1-2-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1),
provides that the corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all
ordinances and make all rules and regulations proper or necessary, to carry
into effect the powers granted to municipalities, with such fines or penalties
as may be deemed proper; and
   D.   Section 1-1-10 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-1-10)
empowers the corporate authorities of the municipality to exercise all powers
granted to it expressly, by necessity, by the Illinois Municipal Code, by
Illinois statute, or by the Illinois Constitution; and
   E.   Section 11-20-5 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-20-5)
empowers the corporate authorities of each municipality to "do all acts and
make all regulations which may be necessary or expedient for the promotion of
health or the suppression of diseases"; and
   F.   Section 11-60-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-60-2)
empowers the corporate authorities of each municipality to define, prevent and
abate nuisances; and
   G.   Section 3-102 of the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort
Immunity Act (745 ILCS 10/3-102) obligates the Village to "exercise ordinary
care to maintain public property in a reasonably safe condition." Bubb v.
Springfield Sch. Dist. 186, 167 Ill. 2d 372, 377 (1995) (citing 745 ILCS 10/3-
102); and,
   H.   The Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act
generally immunizes municipalities from damages claims where the public
property was not being used in the manner intended and permitted by the
municipality. See Wojdyla v. City of Park Ridge, 148 Ill. 2d 417, 421-22 (1992)
(quoting 745 ILCS 10/3-102(a)) ("Thus, for a pedestrian to be protected in the
present circumstances by the statute, he must be an intended and permitted user
of the property under the control of the city."); and
   I.   In City of Grants Pass, Oregon v. Johnson, 603 U.S.      , 144 S. Ct.
2202 (2024), the United States Supreme Court held that the criminalization of
"public camping", as defined in the City of Grants Pass's ordinance, did not
unconstitutionally infringe on the Eighth Amendment rights of homeless and
otherwise unhoused persons within said City; and
   J.   In Johnson, the United States Supreme Court acknowledged that
homelessness is a "complex and serious social issue" whose "causes are many"
and which "cries out for effective responses" to combat it. Johnson, 603 U.S.,
slip op. at 10, 34; and,
   K.   In Johnson, the United States Supreme Court relied heavily on the
"stepwise" escalation of penalties in Grants Pass's ordinance to uphold its
constitutionality. Id. at 11, 16-17; and
   L.   In view of the foregoing, the Board of Trustees of the Village believe
that it is appropriate, necessary and in the best interests of the Village and
its residents, that the Village implement a Public Camping Prohibition and
related enforcement mechanisms, to address the myriad public concerns that
public camping creates.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-2: PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE:
   Public Camping, as the term is defined in Section
4-9-5, is hereby declared to be a nuisance within the Village for the reasons
identified above.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-3: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
   In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village hereby declare it necessary or
expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of diseases, to
regulate Public Camping, as that term is defined in Section
4-9-5, within the Village's corporate limits.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-4: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the Village
in any subsequent ordinance, the Village hereby declares that none of its
property is permitted nor intended to be used for Public Camping, as the term
is defined in Section
4-9-5.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-5: DEFINITIONS:
   The following definitions apply to this chapter:
   BEDDING: A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding purposes.
   CAMPSITE: Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where Bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
   EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: Items which would otherwise constitute Personal
Property under the terms of this chapter, but which
   A.   Has no apparent utility or monetary value;
   B.   Personal Property which is unsanitary to store or otherwise maintain;
   C.   Any weapon possessed illegally;
   D.   Drug paraphernalia;
   E.   Items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be evidence of a
crime;
   F.   Items which the person cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful
authority to possess; and
   G.   Any items of food which can reasonably be expected to spoil or
otherwise perish within the next thirty (30) days.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a person
and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for Exempt Personal
Property.
   PUBLIC CAMPING: To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the act
of remaining in or at, a Campsite.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-6: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
   B.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
   C.   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in Public Camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the Village.
   D.   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the Village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in Public Camping in said vehicle.
   E.   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose
of Public Camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the
Village, between the hours of midnight and six o’clock (6:00) a.m., shall be
considered a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-7: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in
Public Camping when done:
   A.   In a manner specifically authorized by this Code;
   B.   After a formal declaration of the Village in emergency circumstances;
or
   C.   Upon resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village,
the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if
the President and Board of Trustees of the Village find such exemption to be in
the public interest and consistent with the goals and objectives of the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village, and with such conditions
imposed as the President and Board of Trustees of the Village deem necessary.
   Any conditions imposed will include a condition requiring that the applicant
provide evidence of adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the
Village for any liability, damage or expense incurred by the Village as a
result of the activities of the applicant. Any findings by the President and
Board of Trustees of the Village shall specify the exact dates and location
covered by the exemption.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-8: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
   Removal of a Campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
   A.   Prior to removing a Campsite, the Village shall post a notice, 24-hours
in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the Campsite is deemed
to be necessary for one of the reasons in subparagraphs 1-4, below. If such
immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate removal of
such Campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate person(s).
      1.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
      2.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
      3.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
      4.   Immediate removal of the Campsite is necessary because the Campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the Village and its residents.
   B.   Upon any action pursuant to Section 8.A, above, the person causing such
action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the Village, of the location of the
Campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this Ordinance, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
   C.   If a twenty-four (24)-hour notice has been posted, and the twenty-four
(24)-hour notice period has passed, then the Campsite, as well as all Personal
Property thereon, shall be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on
behalf of the Village.
   D.   No portion of this Section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in Public Camping from removing their Personal Property
from the Campsite; however, such Personal Property that constitutes Exempt
Personal Property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
Exempt Personal Property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-9: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   All Personal Property removed from any Campsite which is not Exempt
Personal Property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the Village, for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time it shall be
reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
All such Personal Property not so released after thirty (30) days may be
disposed of by the Police Chief in such manner as the Police Chief may
determine.
   B.   All Exempt Personal Property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the Village.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-10: PENALTY; MITIGATION:
   A.   The penalty for any person's first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seventy-five dollars ($75.00).
   B.   The penalty for any person's second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be one hundred and fifty dollars
($150.00).
   C.   The penalty for any person's third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be three hundred and fifty dollars
($350.00).
   D.   The penalty for any person's fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   E.   The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00).
   F.   The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) or incarceration for a
period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   G.   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
paragraphs A-F, above, and if consented to by the Village, the penalty assessed
to any person found in violation of this chapter may be that said person must
engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other public
facilities of the Village for an amount of time that, if the person found to
have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois law,
the amount paid for that person's labors would have been equal to the monetary
penalty assessed under this chapter.
   H.   The Village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
   I.   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this Section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
Personal Property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the Campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
   J.   A separate offense of this chapter shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
   K.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the Campsite is located.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
4-9-11: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
   All ordinances, resolutions and policies or parts thereof, in conflict with
the provisions of this chapter are, to the extent of the conflict, expressly
repealed on the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 24-11, 8-20-2024)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-1-1: At Large Prohibited
5-1-2: Unlawful Activity
5-1-3: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any dog to roam at large within the Village, or to be
off the premises of its owner unless it is under restraint:
   A.   On a leash, or
   B.   Within a motor vehicle, or
   C.   By a person accompanying it who is able to control it and who remains
within fifty feet (50') of it at all times, or
   D.   As part of an organized group hunting activity or similar organized
event. (Ord. 60-06, 5-2-1960)
5-1-2: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful within the Village and a violation of this Code to
do any of the following:
      1.   Beat, torture, torment, bait or incite toward fighting, mutilate or
cruelly kill, or intentionally apply any cruel and inhumane means or methods
specifically intended to inflict pain or suffering on any animal, or cause or
knowingly allow the same to be done.
      2.   Unnecessarily fail to provide any animal that is not wild with
proper and sufficient amount of food, water, air and sanitary shelter, said
shelter to be sufficient to provide natural light or artificial illumination
during reasonable hours, protection from drafts, reasonable safeguards against
chilling and overheating caused by temperature extremes, and space within that
is sufficient for the animal to stand in an upright position and lie down
stretched out so that no part of its body need touch the top or sides of the
shelter structure.
      3.   Cruelly force any animal into undue physical exertion.
      4.   Carry, keep, drive, or cause to be carried, driven, or kept, any
animal in a cruel manner.
      5.   Leave for any length of time any animal unattended in a motor
vehicle and/or trailer when the outside temperature is such that the animal may
suffer from excessive heat, cold, or physical stress.
      6.   Have, keep or harbor any animal that is infected with any disease
transmissible to other animals or human beings, or that is afflicted with any
painful disease or injury, including severe parasitism, unless such animal
shall be under the care of a licensed veterinarian.
      7.   Abandon any animal on any public way or in any place where it may
suffer or become a public charge.
      8.   Use an electric prod on any animal, unless necessary to protect
against credible threat of physical harm to by-standing persons.
      9.   Purposefully kill any animal on any residential lot for food
purposes.
      10.   Commercially sell any animals or animal by-products on any
residential lot.
      11.   Use barbed or razor fencing to contain animals.
      12.   Knowingly or repeatedly allow animals owned by a person to wander
unattended by a person onto property owned by another person without the other
person's express consent.
      13.   Keep or maintain livestock on any property without adequate fencing
to contain the livestock on that property.
      14.   Keep or maintain livestock on any property in excess of the number
of livestock animals permitted by this Code.
      15.   Keep or maintain a rooster.
      16.   Keep or maintain livestock on a residential lot without a structure
permitted to house the livestock in accordance with this Code.
      17.   Fail to keep and maintain hens entirely confined in a pen, coop or
other structure approved by the Director of Building and Zoning for keeping and
maintaining hens.
      18.   Fail to keep clean, sanitary and free of pest infestation, refuse
and waste all structures that house livestock on residential lots.
      19.   Fail to at least once every twenty four (24) hours clean and
containerize or dispose of all livestock waste on residential lots in a clean
and sanitary fashion.
      20.   Fail to keep feed for livestock on residential lots in rodent proof
containers until put out for consumption by the livestock.
However, as an exception to the unlawful activities set forth above, it shall
not be unlawful under this section to control or eliminate pests using commonly
accepted or commercially available products, services, means or methods on
condition that they do not involve torturing, tormenting or other intentionally
cruel and inhumane means or methods that are specifically intended to inflict
pain or suffering that is unnecessary to control or eliminate the pests. (Ord.
19-13, 8-20-2019)
5-1-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the violator to a fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions Generally
5-2-2: Penalty
5-2-3: Discharge Of Firearms
5-2-4: Concealed Weapons
5-2-5: Aircraft Ascents And Landings
5-2-6: Curfew
5-2-7: Truancy
5-2-8: Fireworks
5-2-9: Assault
5-2-10: Battery
5-2-11: Theft
5-2-12: Disorderly Conduct
5-2-13: Mob Action
5-2-14: Fighting
5-2-15: Obstructing A Peace Officer
5-2-16: Criminal Damage To Property
5-2-17: Trespass To Vehicles
5-2-18: Trespass To Land
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS GENERALLY:
Whenever any words and phrases used in this chapter are not defined herein,
they shall be defined as contained in chapter 720 of the Illinois Compiled
Statutes 1 , as amended. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
5-2-2: PENALTY:
Upon a finding of guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter, the
minimum fine shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00), where no other penalty is
set forth in this title. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
   A.   Definition: A "firearm", within the meaning of this section, means any
device, by whatever name known, which is designed to expel a projectile or
projectiles by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas or escape of gas;
excluding, however, any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paintball gun or BB gun
which either expels a single globular projectile not exceeding 0.18 inch in
diameter and which has a maximum muzzle velocity of less than seven hundred
feet (700') per second or breakable paintballs containing washable marking
colors.
   B.   Discharge Prohibited: No person shall discharge a firearm within this
Village. Each discharge of a "firearm", defined in subsection A of this
section, shall constitute a separate violation thereof. There shall be imposed
for each violation of this subsection a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than the maximum fine allowed in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to peace
officers, and any person summoned by a peace officer to assist in making
arrests or preserving the peace, while actually engaged in assisting such
officer. The provisions of this section shall further not apply to private
shooting or target clubs duly registered with the Police Department and holding
a permit which may be subject to an annual fee to be paid to the Village. (Ord.
19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-4: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, as used in this section, shall have
the meanings set forth herein:
    CONCEALED FIREARM: A loaded or unloaded handgun carried on or about a
person, completely or mostly concealed from view of the public or on or about a
person within a vehicle.
   HANDGUN: Any device which is designed to expel a projectile or projectiles
by the action of an explosion, expansion of gas, or escape of gas, and which is
designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand; provided that a
"handgun" shall not include a stun gun or taser; a machine gun as defined in
the Illinois Criminal Code; a short barreled rifle or shotgun as defined in the
Criminal Code; or any pneumatic gun, spring gun, paintball gun, or BB gun which
expels a single globular projectile not exceeding 0.18 inch in diameter, or
which has a maximum muzzle velocity of less than seven hundred feet (700') per
second, or which expels breakable paintballs containing washable marking
colors.
   B.   Concealed Firearm License; Provisions: A person licensed by the
Department of State Police to carry a concealed firearm may carry a loaded or
unloaded firearm, fully concealed or partially concealed, on or about his or
her person; or keep or carry a loaded or unloaded concealed firearm on or about
his or her person within a vehicle, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   If an officer of a law enforcement agency initiates an investigative
stop, including, but not limited to, a traffic stop, of a licensee who is
carrying a concealed firearm, upon the request of the officer, the licensee
shall disclose to the officer that he or she is in possession of a concealed
firearm, present the license upon the request of the officer, and identify the
location of the concealed firearm.
      2.   A licensee shall possess a license at all times when carrying a
concealed firearm except upon his or her land or in his or her abode, legal
dwelling, or fixed place of business, or on the land or in the legal dwelling
of another person as an invitee with that person's permission; when authorized
to carry a firearm under section 24-2 of the Illinois Criminal Code, except
subsection (a-5) of that section; or when the handgun is broken down in a
nonfunctioning state, is not immediately accessible, or is unloaded and
enclosed in a case.
      3.   A licensee shall not knowingly carry a firearm on or into any of the
following areas:
         a.   Any building, real property and parking area under the control of
a public or private elementary or secondary school, preschool or childcare
facility, unless by the operator of a childcare facility in a home when no
children are present or when the firearm in the home is stored in a locked
container when children are present;
         b.   Any building, parking area, or portion of a building under the
control of an officer of the Executive or Legislative Branch of government
unless permitted by permit of the Department of Natural Resources;
         c.   Any building or portion of a building under the control of a unit
of local government;
         d.   Any bus, train or other form of transportation, or any building,
real property or parking area under the control of a public transportation
facility paid for in whole or in part with public funds;
         e.   Any building, real property and parking area under the control of
an establishment that serves alcohol on its premises if more than fifty percent
(50%) of the establishment's gross receipts within the prior three (3) months
is from the sale of alcohol;
         f.   Any public gathering or special event conducted on property open
to the public that requires a permit from the unit of local government, except
for merely walking through such a public gathering in order to access one's
residence, place of business or vehicle;
         g.   Any building or real property that has been issued a special
event retailer's license or a special use permit license under the Illinois
Liquor Control Act;
         h.   Any public playground, public park, athletic area, or athletic
facility under the control of a municipality or park district, except while on
a trail or bikeway if only a portion thereof includes a public park;
         i.   Any building, real property or parking area under the control of
a public library or a museum;
         j.   Any area where firearms are prohibited under Federal law; or
         k.   Any area designated by an owner of private real property of any
type, by the posting of a sign indicating that firearms are prohibited, as an
area in which the carrying of concealed firearms is prohibited, except that no
sign shall be required to be posted on a private residence.
   C.   Knives: No person shall carry in the Village, on or about his or her
person, any dagger, dirk, stiletto, bowie knife, commando knife, or any knife,
the blade of which is two inches (2") in length or longer, which blade is
released by a spring mechanism and known as a "switchblade".
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
fined a sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-5: AIRCRAFT ASCENTS AND LANDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ascend or land any aircraft, defined in
section 3 of an Act Relating to Aeronautics 1 , including gliders, helicopters,
hot air balloons and parachutes, on any parcel of property, lot or tract of
land within the Village which has a ground area of less than twenty (20) acres
(excluding adjacent roads); provided, however, that the prohibition contained
herein shall not apply to any emergency landing or to any medical helicopter on
a bona fide emergency medical mission or official State business upon prior
approval of the Chief of Police. Any person violating any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction therefor, be fined a sum as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 620 ILCS 5/3.
5-2-6: CURFEW:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for a person under seventeen (17)
years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place or
street at the following times:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day.
   B.   Defenses: It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the
minor is engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, legal guardian, or adult acting
in loco parentis;
      2.   Accompanied by an adult at least eighteen (18) years of age approved
by the minor's parent, or guardian;
      3.   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         a.   Employment which the laws of this State authorize a person less
than seventeen (17) years of age to perform;
         b.   An authorized school recreational activity;
         c.   A religious event;
         d.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
         e.   An activity involving the exercise of the minor's rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
article 1, sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the State of Illinois, or
both;
         f.   An activity conducted by a nonprofit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training, or other care under the supervision
of one or more adults.
A citation for violation of subsection A of this section may be issued by a
police officer only if he reasonably believes that a violation has occurred and
none of the defenses enumerated in this subsection B apply.
   C.   Duty Of Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for a parent, legal
guardian, or other person to knowingly permit a person under the age of
seventeen (17) in his/her custody or control to violate the provisions of
subsection A of this section. When a person over the age of eighteen (18) has
custody of a person under the age of seventeen (17) and the person under the
age of seventeen (17) is present upon any public assembly, building, business,
street or highway or other public place or public way there shall exist a
rebuttable presumption that such presence is in violation of subsection A of
this section, and none of the defenses enumerated in subsection B of this
section apply.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of subsection C of this
section shall be fined in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-7: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, person appointed guardian or given
custody of a minor by a Circuit Court of this State, or person appointed legal
guardian or given custody of a minor under the Illinois Juvenile Court Act, but
shall not include any person appointed guardian only to the estate of a minor.
   MINOR, MINOR CHILD OR WARD: Any person over five (5) years but not yet
eighteen (18) years of age.
   PARENTS: Shall include the father and/or the mother of a minor child whether
by birth or adoption, or shall be deemed to be the parent having legal custody
of the minor in the event the parents are divorced or separated. The term
"parent" as used in this section shall also be deemed to mean "legal guardian".
   B.   Truancy Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor enrolled in a
public, private or parochial school within the Village limits of the Village of
Wayne to absent himself or herself from attendance at school for a school day
or portion thereof without permission of his or her parent or legal guardian.
Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond the
control of person so absenting himself or herself from school without
permission of his or her parent or legal guardian shall not constitute truancy
if permission for such absence has in substance been obtained from the parent
or legal guardian and such permission is confirmed in writing to the proper
school authorities within twenty four (24) hours after such absence.
   C.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal
guardian to suffer or permit his or her minor child or ward to violate
subsection B of this section. It shall be an offense under this subsection C
for a parent to knowingly cause to be submitted to any school authorities
written permission, which explains the absence from school attendance of his or
her minor child that contains false information.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person ten (10) years of age or older that shall violate
subsection B of this section shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, or a period of community service not to
exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours, or both.
      2.   If the person who violates subsection B or C of this section is
under ten (10) years of age, the parent or legal guardian of the violator is
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, or a period of community service not to
exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours, or both. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-8: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Means those fireworks that must comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S.
Consumer Products Safety Commission, as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and
1507, and classified as fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States
Department of Transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" shall
not include snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known
as "party poppers", "booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette
loads", and "auto burglar alarms"; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns,
or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five
hundredths (25/100) grain or less of explosive compound are used, provided they
are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in
place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain less
than twenty hundredths (20/100) grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use of
which shall be permitted at all times.
   FIREWORK: Means and includes any explosive composition, or any substance or
combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion,
combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy
cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman
candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other device containing
any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term "fireworks" shall not include snake
or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known as
"party poppers", "booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads"
and "auto burglar alarms"; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices
in which paper or plastic caps containing twenty-five hundredths (25/100) grain
or less of explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that
the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion;
and toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty-five
hundredths (25/100) grain of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall
be permitted at all times.
   B.   Prohibition:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation to knowingly
possess, offer for sale, distribute, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use,
explode, or cause a display or exhibition of any consumer fireworks within the
corporate limits of the Village, whether supervised or unsupervised.
      2.   Except as provided in subsections C and D of this section it shall
be unlawful for any person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation to knowingly
possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any
fireworks or give any fireworks display or exhibition in the distribution,
sale, use or explosion of any fireworks within the corporate limits of the
Village, whether supervised or unsupervised.
   C.   Supervised Public Displays Of Fireworks: No supervised public displays
or exhibitions of fireworks shall be given unless a permit therefor shall first
be secured from the Chief of Police of the Village of Wayne or his/her designee
("Police Chief"). Every such display shall be handled by a competent individual
designated and approved by the Police Chief and shall be of such a character
and so located, discharged or fired, as not to be hazardous to property or
endanger any person or persons. No fireworks display may include the use of
consumer fireworks.
Application for permits shall be made in writing at least fifteen (15) days in
advance of the date of the display and action shall be taken on such
application within forty eight (48) hours after such application is made. After
such privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution
of fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted hereunder shall be transferable.
Permits may be granted hereunder to any group of three (3) or more adult
individuals applying therefor. The Police Chief shall require evidence of
insurance or risk protection in a form and at limits approved by the Village
Attorney. Such insurance shall name the Village, its agents, officers and
employees as additional insureds. There shall be no cost to the Village for
such insurance.
Such permits shall be issued only after inspection of the display site by the
Police Chief in consultation with the local Fire Department with jurisdiction
of the proposed site, to determine that such display shall not be hazardous to
property or endanger any person or persons. Forms for such application shall be
available from the Village Clerk and shall require such information as the
Police Chief deems appropriate to effectuate the purpose of this section.
Only a person licensed under the Pyrotechnic Distributor and Operator Licensing
Act, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 227/1, shall be authorized to use, ignite
or explode any fireworks within the Village corporate limits.
Permits required hereunder shall be in addition to any permit, license or
approvals required under State Statute and regulations promulgated pursuant
thereto.
   D.   Exemption:
      1.   It shall not be a violation of this section for any party or person
holding a certificate of registration under the Fireworks Regulation Act, 425
Illinois Compiled Statutes 30, or Pyrotechnic Use Act, 425 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 35 or any employee or agent thereof or any person transporting
fireworks or consumer fireworks for such party to possess fireworks or consumer
fireworks, provided such possession is within the scope of business of the
fireworks plant registered or pyrotechnic company or distributor under either
Act.
      2.   Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as prohibiting the
manufacture, storage, or use of signals, fuses or flares necessary for the safe
operation of railroads, trucks, aircraft, or other instrumentalities of
transportation.
      3.   The use or possession of sparklers and party poppers shall not be a
violation of this section.
   E.   Violation:
      1.   For purposes of enforcing this section, evidence of fireworks
paraphernalia or other fireworks related debris, including consumer firework
paraphernalia or related debris, which is found on the property shall be
conclusive evidence that the activities set forth in subsections A through D of
this section have occurred and the property owner and/or lessee of such
property shall be deemed responsible for such activities and may be subject to
the penalties set forth in subsection E4 of this section.
      2.   Each individual firework that is displayed, distributed, or
possessed within the Village limits without a permit pursuant to subsection C
of this section or exemption under subsection D of this section shall be deemed
a separate violation of this section.
      3.   Each individual consumer firework that is displayed, distributed, or
possessed within the Village limits and is not exempt under subsection D of
this section shall be deemed a separate violation of this section.
      4.   The violation claim described in a citation issued pursuant to the
terms of this section may be settled, compromised and paid in the respective
amounts set forth in the following schedule:
 
First offense       $150.00
Subsequent offenses 225.00
 
In the event that said payment is not made within ten (10) days of the date of
the citation, the following amounts shall be accepted as settlement:
 
First offense       $175.00
Subsequent offenses 250.00
 
In the event that said payment is not made within twenty (20) days of the date
of the citation, the Village reserves the right to enforce the provision of
this subsection by any means authorized under this Code or applicable State
Statute and seek any fines and costs authorized thereunder.
Notwithstanding the foregoing schedule of fines and penalties, any person who
causes injury or damage to any person or personnel or real property in
connection with the use of fireworks (permitted or unauthorized), the
unauthorized use of consumer fireworks or any other act prohibited by this
section, shall be fined not less than four hundred dollars ($400.00) in
addition to other applicable penalties and fines prescribed by the provisions
of this Code and other local, State, or Federal laws. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-9: ASSAULT:
It is unlawful for any person to commit an assault. A person commits an assault
when, without lawful authority, he engages in conduct which places another in
reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-10: BATTERY:
It is unlawful for any person to commit a battery.
   A.   A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual;
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-11: THEFT:
It is unlawful for any person to commit a theft.
A person commits theft when he knowingly:
   A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   B.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
   C.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
   D.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-12: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any person to commit an act of disorderly conduct.
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct when he knowingly:
      1.   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of the peace; or
      2.   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists; or
      3.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that
a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or explosive is
concealed in such place; or
      4.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, police officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed; or
      5.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful
purpose deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-13: MOB ACTION:
   A.   Mob action consists of any of the following:
      1.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
      2.   The assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of law,
for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone supposed
to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of exercising
correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by violence.
   B.   Any person violating subsection A of this section shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-14: FIGHTING:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in or encourage a fight on any public
property or other place open to the public so as to endanger the health, safety
or property of another. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-15: OBSTRUCTING A PEACE OFFICER:
No person shall intentionally obstruct, hinder or prevent the lawful execution
of any legal process, civil or criminal, or apprehension of another on a charge
or conviction of a criminal offense or interfere with a peace officer while the
officer is engaged in the performance of official duties for the purpose of
deterring or interfering with the performance of those duties. This section
shall not be interpreted to prohibit verbally protesting any action or to
prohibit verbally urging any officer or other person to take any action. (Ord.
19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-16: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It is unlawful to:
   A.   Knowingly damage any property of another without his consent; or
   B.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosive damage property of another; or
   C.   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent; or
   D.   Knowingly injure a domestic animal of another without his consent; or
   E.   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intends to interfere with the use by another of the land or building;
   F.   Knowingly damage the property of another without his consent by
defacing, deforming or otherwise damaging such property by the use of paint or
any other similar substance;
   G.   Knowingly damage, destroy or deface in any manner any real or personal
property owned by the Village without the consent of the Village Board. (Ord.
19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-17: TRESPASS TO VEHICLES:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and without authority enter any
vehicle, aircraft or watercraft or any part thereof of another without his
consent. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
5-2-18: TRESPASS TO LAND:
   A.   Except pursuant to a warrant, or as otherwise provided by applicable
law, ordinance, or regulation, whoever enters upon the land or any part thereof
of another, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the
owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of
another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, commits
the offense of trespass.
   B.   A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of subsection A of this section if he has been notified personally,
either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such
entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such
land or the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 19-10, 7-16-2019)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: Declare State Of Emergency
5-3-4: Curfew; Regulation Of Certain Businesses
5-3-5: Violation
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to for all purposes
as the VILLAGE OF WAYNE CIVIL EMERGENCY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 97-36, 12-16-1997)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following
respective meanings:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Shall have the meaning set forth in the Village Liquor
Control Ordinance, Title 3, Chapter 2 of this Code.
CURFEW: A prohibition declared by the Village President, pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter, against any person (except officials of any
governmental authority and other persons expressly authorized by a governmental
authority to act with respect to a state of emergency) being upon any alley,
street, public highway, parkway, sidewalk, park, playground, parking lot, other
open private property or open private land adjacent to any of the foregoing
within the hours specified by the Village President in the proclamation or
declaration establishing such curfew.
FIREARMS AND FIREARM AMMUNITION: Shall have the respective meanings set forth
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/31A-1.2, as the same may from time to time
be amended and in force.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Gasoline, kerosene, ether or any other liquid which is
flammable, combustible or explosive.
STATE OF EMERGENCY: Any riot, rout, affray, disorderly assembly or unlawful
assembly, by three (3) or more persons, which is determined by the Village
President, pursuant to subsection
5-3-3A of this Chapter to be substantially characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or by a clear and present danger of the use of force and
violence against persons or property in the Village, or by the clear and
present danger of the use of force or violence so as to interfere with the
lawful and peaceable exercise of rights by persons within the Village or the
lawful and peaceable use of property within the Village, or any natural or
manmade calamity within the Village, such as but not limited to flood, fire,
cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion or the imminent danger thereof. (Ord.
97-36, 12-16-1997; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-3: DECLARE STATE OF EMERGENCY:
   A.   Declaration: Whenever the Village President shall determine that a
state of emergency exists, in accordance with the standards of the definition
set forth in Section
5-3-2 of this Chapter, the Village President shall have the extraordinary power
and authority to exercise, by executive order, all such powers of the corporate
authorities and other officers of the Village as may be reasonably necessary or
appropriate to eliminate or minimize the dangers arising from such state of
emergency and for the protection of the health, safety and general welfare of
the public; provided, that prior to exercising any such extraordinary power and
authority, the Village President shall have executed, under oath, a written
declaration of emergency containing the following:
      1.   A statement of certain facts known to the Village President, either
directly or upon information and belief, which are believed by him to
constitute a state of emergency;
      2.   An express declaration of a state of emergency pursuant to this
Chapter;
      3.   Such further orders and directives as the Village President may deem
necessary or appropriate for the protection of the health, safety and general
welfare of the public.
   B.   Publication Of Declaration: As promptly as practicable after the
execution by the Village President of any declaration of emergency, pursuant to
the provisions of subsection A above, such declaration shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and published by posting copies thereof at the following
locations:
      1.   On the outside of the front door of the Village offices;
      2.   On the outside of the front door of the main Village police station;
      3.   On the outside of the front door of the United States post office in
the Village;
      4.   At such other place or places within the Village as the Village
President may, in his discretion, direct.
In addition, the Village President may direct that copies of such declaration
of emergency be delivered as soon as practicable to any newspapers published or
circulated within the Village and to such radio, television and other
broadcasting stations either within or without the Village as may be reasonably
necessary or appropriate to effect publication of such declaration of emergency
to persons within the Village. Nothing contained in this Section shall be a
condition to any lawful arrest, prosection or conviction of any person for a
violation of any provisions of this Chapter, provided that the Village
President shall not have arbitrarily or capriciously failed or refused to
publish a declaration of emergency in accordance with the provisions hereof.
   C.   Expiration: A state of emergency may be declared terminated at any time
by the Village President by a written declaration executed by the President and
published in the manner provided in subsection B above for a declaration of
emergency, and in any event a state of emergency shall expire and terminate
automatically and without any further act by the Village President not later
than the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the Village Board after
execution of the declaration of emergency; provided, however, that the Village
Board may from time to time thereafter by motion extend such state of emergency
and any orders issued by the Village President in connection therewith until a
time fixed in such motion but not later than: 1) the adjournment of the next
succeeding meeting of the Village Board, or 2) forty eight (48) hours after the
time of such extension, whichever shall first occur. (Ord. 97-36, 12-16-1997)
5-3-4: CURFEW; REGULATION OF CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
Concurrently with the execution of a declaration of emergency under Section
5-3-3 of this Chapter, or at any time after such declaration but prior to the
expiration thereof, the Village President may, in his sole discretion and in
the interest of public safety and welfare, make any one or more or all of the
following orders:
   A.   Order the imposition of a curfew within certain hours specified by the
Village President in the order imposing such curfew;
   B.   Order the closing of any business holding a license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages where such sales constitute the major part of the business
of the licensee;
   C.   Order the discontinuance of sale of alcoholic liquor by any person
licensed for such sale under the applicable Village ordinances;
   D.   Order the discontinuance of sale, distribution, dispensing or giving
away in any manner of any firearms, or firearm ammunition, or both;
   E.   Order the discontinuance of the sale, distribution or giving away of
any flammable liquid, except sales of gasoline or fuel oil delivered directly
into a tank permanently affixed to a motor vehicle or a building;
   F.   Order such other safeguards and precautions as are, in the opinion of
the Village President, necessary or appropriate for the protection of life and
property in the Village and for the elimination of such state of emergency.
(Ord. 97-36, 12-16-1997)
5-3-5: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates the provisions of any curfew declared or order made by
the Village President, pursuant to the provisions of Section
5-3-4 of this Chapter, shall be guilty of a violation of this Chapter and shall
be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation of this Chapter occurs shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 97-36, 12-16-1997; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AND DRUGS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Possession Or Consumption Of Alcohol By Minors Prohibited
5-4-3: Parental Responsibility For Possession Or Consumption Of Alcoholic
Liquor By Minors
5-4-4: Possession Of Cannabis Prohibited
5-4-5: Sale And Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia Prohibited
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them as follows:
CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3 of the "Cannabis
Control Act", as if that definition were incorporated herein.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 102 of
the "Illinois Controlled Substances Act", as if that definition were
incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
peculiar to and marketed for use in planting, propagating, cultivating,
growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing,
containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body, cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of the "Cannabis Control Act" or the "Illinois Controlled Substances
Act", "Drug Paraphernalia" includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   B.   Isomerization devices peculiar to and marketed for use in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled
substance;
   C.   Testing equipment peculiar to and marketed for private home use in
identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis or
controlled substances;
   D.   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to and marketed for cutting cannabis
or controlled substances;
   E.   Objects peculiar to and marketed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body including, where applicable, the following items:
1. Water pipes;
2. Carburetion tubes and devices;
3. Smoking and carburetion masks;
4. Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
5. Carburetor pipes;
6. Electric pipes;
7. Air-driven pipes;
8. Chillums;
9. Bongs;
10. Ice pipes or chillers;
11. Roach clips;
12. Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic marijuana or
hashish pipes, having a bowl diameter of one-half inch (1/2") or less, with or
without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal bowls; and
   F.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for
uses set forth in this definition.
In determining whether an object is "drug paraphernalia", a court or other
authority shall consider, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
   A.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object concerning
its use;
   B.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   C.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows,
or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation
of the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act, and the
innocence of any owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct
violation of such acts, shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended
for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   D.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object which explain
or depict its use;
   E.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   F.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
   G.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   H.   Proximity of the cannabis or a controlled substance to the object or
the presence of cannabis or a controlled substance on the object; and
   I.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
ILLEGAL DRUG: Any substances as defined and included in the schedules of
article II of the Illinois controlled substances act; any cannabis; and any
drug, as defined in paragraph (b) of section 3 of the pharmacy practice act of
1987, which is obtained without a prescription or otherwise in violation of the
law.
INTENTIONALLY: Conduct engaged in by a person who has the conscious objective
to accomplish that result or engage in that conduct.
KNOWINGLY: Conduct engaged in by a person who is consciously aware of the
nature of the attendant circumstances of any conduct which constitutes an
offense under this chapter.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: Any foster parent, person appointed guardian or given custody
of a minor by a circuit court of this state, or person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act; provided that a
legal guardian shall not include any person appointed guardian only as to the
estate of a minor.
MEDICAL CANNABIS ACT: The compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program
act (PA 98-0122).
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it
in section 10 of the medical cannabis act.
MEDICAL USE: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 10 of the medical
cannabis act.
MINOR: Any person over seven (7) years of age but not yet twenty one (21) years
of age.
NEGLIGENCE: Conduct engaged in by a person where such person fails to be aware
of a substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a
result will follow which constitutes an offense under this chapter, where such
failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
PARENT: The father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth or adoption,
or the parent having legal custody of the minor in the event the parents are
divorced or separated, including a minor's "legal guardian" as defined herein.
QUALIFYING PATIENT: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 10 of the
medical cannabis act.
RECKLESSLY: Conduct engaged in by a person in conscious disregard of a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result
will follow which constitutes an offense under this chapter, where such
disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001; amd.
Ord. 14-01, 1-21-2014)
5-4-2: POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No minor shall possess or consume alcoholic liquor within the village;
provided that the possession, dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony, the consumption
by a minor under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or legal
guardian of such minor in the privacy of the parent's or legal guardian's home,
or the possession and delivery of or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor in
pursuance of a person's lawful employment is not prohibited and shall not be
construed as a violation of this section.
   B.   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor
shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently give or deliver such
alcoholic liquor to a minor, except as allowed under subsection A of this
section.
   C.   No owner or occupant of any premises located within the village shall
intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently allow any minor who is not
such person's child to remain on such premises while in the possession of
alcoholic liquor, or while consuming alcoholic liquors in violation of
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
   D.   Any person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this section
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
5-4-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC
LIQUOR BY MINORS:
   A.   No parent or legal guardian shall give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
his or her minor child for the minor's consumption, unless the consumption of
alcoholic liquor by such minor is in the performance of a religious service or
ceremony under the direction, supervision, and approval of a parent or legal
guardian of such minor in the privacy of the home.
   B.   No parent or legal guardian shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly,
or negligently give or deliver alcoholic liquor to, or permit the possession of
alcoholic liquor by his or her minor child, or by any other minor, unless such
minor is making a delivery of such alcoholic liquor pursuant to the order of
the parent or legal guardian in pursuance of employment or otherwise as allowed
by subsection A of this section.
   C.   No parent or legal guardian shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly,
or negligently give, deliver, invite or permit the consumption of alcoholic
liquor by any minors on or about the premises owned, leased or controlled by
such parent or legal guardian, except as otherwise allowed by subsection A of
this section. A parent or legal guardian shall be deemed to have permitted
premises owned, leased or controlled by such parent or legal guardian to be
used in violation of this section if such parent or legal guardian knowingly
authorizes, enables, or permits such use to occur by failing to control access
to either the premises or the alcoholic liquor maintained therein.
   D.   Parents shall restrain or prevent their minor children from consuming
alcoholic liquor where the parent knows, or in the exercise of ordinary care
should know, of a substantial probability that their minor child is or will
consume alcoholic liquor under circumstances which violate the provisions of
this section, the Illinois liquor control act, or any other ordinances,
statutes or amendments thereto.
   E.   Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know, of a
substantial probability that their minor child has consumed or will consume
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois liquor control act,
or any other ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto, shall restrain or
prevent their minor child from operating or driving a motor vehicle in the
public streets and ways of the village in violation of any ordinance, statute
or law.
   F.   Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know, of a
substantial probability that their minor child has consumed or will consume
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois liquor control act,
or any other ordinance, statute or amendments thereto, shall restrain or
prevent their minor child from committing acts which constitute vandalism,
theft, disorderly conduct, or the unjustifiable use of force in violation of
any ordinance, statute or law. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
   G.   Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of this section
shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
5-4-4: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall grow, possess, sell, give away, barter, deliver,
exchange, distribute, or administer any cannabis within the village, except as
follows:
      1.   A medical cannabis dispensing organization may possess, sell,
deliver or distribute cannabis for medical use to qualifying patients in
accordance with the medical cannabis act.
      2.   A qualifying patient may possess or administer cannabis for personal
medical use in accordance with the medical cannabis act.
      3.   Otherwise in accordance with the medical cannabis act. (Ord. 14-01,
1-21-2014)
   B.   Any person who violates this section with respect to not more than ten
grams (10 g) of cannabis shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00), nor more than the maximum fine provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
   C.   Any person who violates this section with respect to more than ten
grams (10 g) of cannabis shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), nor more than the maximum fine provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
5-4-5: SALE AND POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall sell, offer to sell, dispense, give away, or otherwise
transfer any item of drug paraphernalia within the village.
   B.   No person shall possess drug paraphernalia within the village.
   C.   The following exemptions to this section shall apply:
      1.   Objects marketed for use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis or a controlled substance, as an incident to
lawful research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale;
      2.   Objects marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance,
including, but not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco
pipes, and cigarette rolling papers;
      3.   Objects defined as "drug paraphernalia" which are marketed for
decorative purposes, when such items have been rendered completely inoperable
or incapable of being used for any purpose prohibited by ordinance, statute or
law; and (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
      4.   Objects defined as "drug paraphernalia", which are sold, dispensed,
given away, or otherwise transferred by medical cannabis dispensing
organizations for medical use of cannabis by qualifying patients, or which are
possessed or used by qualifying patients for medical use in accordance with the
medical cannabis act. (Ord. 14-01, 1-21-2014)
In determining whether or not a particular object is exempt under this
subsection, the trier of fact shall consider, in addition to all other
logically relevant factors, the following:
      1.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the
object involved has been put;
      2.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary and customary use of the
object, and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the
object upon its functioning;
      3.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the object
concerning the purposes or uses to which it can or may be put;
      4.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the object at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery;
      5.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose or
use of the object, and the entire context in which such advertising occurs;
      6.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the object was
displayed for sale, as well as any objects displayed for sale or otherwise
exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made;
      7.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related objects to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products; and
      8.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
   D.   Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than the maximum fine provided for in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 5
WILFUL OR MALICIOUS ACTS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Vandalism Prohibited
5-5-3: Graffiti Prohibited
5-5-4: Parental Responsibility For Wilful Or Malicious Acts Of Minors
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed
to them as follows:
GRAFFITI: The inscription, drawing or otherwise placing upon any sidewalk,
street, or the surface of any structure or wall, whether publicly or privately
owned, any word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch or letters wherein the content
thereof is visible to any member of the general public, which contains, without
limitation, but merely as illustration, references to sexual activity or sexual
organs, references to criminal activities or groups involved in criminal
activity, swearing or fighting words, defamatory materials or words about any
person, or references to relationships between persons.
KNOWINGLY: Conduct engaged in by a person who is consciously aware of the
nature of the attendant circumstances of any conduct which constitutes an
offense under this chapter.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of this state, but not including a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the Illinois juvenile court act.
MINOR: A person who has attained the age of eleven (11) years, but who has not
yet reached nineteen (19) years of age.
PARENT: The lawful mother or father of an unemancipated minor, whether by birth
or adoption.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real estate, including improvements thereon, and tangible
personalty.
RECKLESSLY: Conduct engaged in by a person in conscious disregard of a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result
will follow which constitutes an offense under this chapter, where such
disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the standard of care which a
reasonable person would exercise in the situation. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
5-5-2: VANDALISM PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall knowingly or recklessly damage any property of another
person within the village without such owner's consent.
   B.   No person shall knowingly and without authority enter into or obtain
control over any motor vehicle, bicycle, aircraft or watercraft, or any party
thereof belonging to another person, without such owner's consent. (Ord. 01-02,
2-6-2001)
   C.   Any person found guilty of an offense under this section shall be
subject to either or both of the following penalties:
      1.   A fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
      2.   A period of conditional discharge not to exceed one year, subject to
the rules and conditions set forth or as may be set forth by the circuit court,
and subject to the following:
         a.   The conditions of conditional discharge shall include that the
defendant make restitution in an amount not to exceed the actual loss or damage
to the property and any related pecuniary loss. When a court orders restitution
as a condition for a conditional discharge, the court shall determine the
amount and conditions of payment;
         b.   When the conditions of payment have not been satisfied, the
court, at any time prior to the expiration or termination of the period of
conditional discharge, may impose an additional period of not more than two (2)
years of conditional discharge, and only the conditions of payment shall
continue to apply during such additional period. The court shall retain all
incidents of the original sentence, including the authority to modify or
enlarge the original conditions and to revoke the penalty of conditional
discharge if the conditions of payment are violated during such additional
period of conditional discharge.
         c.   An offender shall not be discharged at the expiration of the
conditional discharge if conditions thereof have not been satisfied. (Ord. 01-
02, 2-6-2001)
5-5-3: GRAFFITI PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to inscribe, draw or otherwise
place any graffiti upon any sidewalk, street or the surface of any structure or
wall, whether publicly or privately owned; provided that it shall be an
affirmative defense to the alleged violation hereof if such activity was
undertaken with the prior written consent of the owner of the property, which
consent demonstrates that the owner was aware of the content and method of
inscription, drawing or placement on such sidewalk, street, structure or wall.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the owner of the sidewalk, street, structure or
wall upon which any prohibited graffiti has been placed, to remove, eradicate
or eliminate such graffiti within forty eight (48) hours from the occurrence of
the offense. In the event that the owner has failed to eliminate such graffiti
as required herein, the village clerk shall notify the owner in writing, by
certified mail or personal notice, that the owner has an additional seven (7)
days to remove such graffiti.
   C.   The owner of the property upon which any graffiti has been placed shall
be entitled to restitution and compensation for the direct costs incurred in
the repair and restoration of the property to its previous condition, from any
person convicted of the offense described in subsection A of this section;
provided that the owner submits receipts or other evidence of the costs
incurred for the removal and repair of the property, and further provided that
the court enters an order of restitution. (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
   D.   Upon a finding of guilty for a violation of subsection A of this
section, a fine shall be imposed as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Upon a finding of guilty for a violation
of subsection B of this section, a fine shall be imposed of not less than
seventy five dollars ($75.00), nor more than the maximum fine provided for in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, subject to the condition that the person
guilty of the violation make full and complete restitution to the owner of the
property for the costs incurred in the removal of the graffiti and the
restoration of the property to its previous condition. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
5-5-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR WILFUL OR MALICIOUS ACTS OF MINORS:
   A.   The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor who resides with
such parent or legal guardian is liable for actual damages up to two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), including reasonable attorney fees, for the
wilful or malicious acts of such minor which cause injury to a person or
property, including damages caused by a minor who has been adjudicated a
delinquent for violating section 21-1.3 of the criminal code of 1961 (criminal
defacement of property), and including damages caused by a minor who has been
found guilty of violating subsection
5-5-2A or B, or 5-5-3A of this chapter.
   B.   Any "person", as defined in this chapter, may bring an action for the
damages provided for in subsection A of this section in accordance with the
parental responsibility law 1 . (Ord. 01-02, 2-6-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. 740 ILCS 115/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 6
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Prohibited
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have such meanings herein as
ascribed to them:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: A licensed establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment, licensed veterans establishment and licensed truck stop
establishment as defined in the video gaming act 1 , as amended from time to
time.
PERSON: As defined in section
1-3-2 of this code, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 09-13, 9-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
5-6-2: PROHIBITED:
Pursuant to section 27 of the video gaming act 1 , video gaming is hereby
prohibited within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 09-13, 9-15-2009)
 
Notes
1 2. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 7
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
5-7-3: Public Nuisance Declared
5-7-4: Violations
5-7-5: Severability
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent. (Ord. 19-20, 12-17-2019)
5-7-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Wayne. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Wayne
of any of the following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter. (Ord. 19-20,
12-17-2019)
5-7-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operation of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment within the Village
of Wayne in violation of the provisions of this Article is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord.
19-20, 12-17-2019)
5-7-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of this Article may be enforced in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 2 of Title 5 of this Code. (Ord. 19-20, 12-17-2019)
5-7-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this Ordinance, or the application of any provision of this
Ordinance, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this Ordinance, or their application, that can
be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this Ordinance. (Ord. 19-
20, 12-17-2019)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of Illinois Vehicle Code
6-1-2: Signs And Signals
6-1-3: Penalty
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE:
Pursuant to the authority and in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-3-2 regarding the incorporation by reference of public
records, the definitions, terms and provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes applicable to the village are hereby adopted insofar as such
definitions, terms and provisions may be applicable and not inconsistent with
any specific terms, provisions or definitions contained in this title, the same
as if set out in full herein for the purpose of regulating traffic on the
roadways of the village. Any ticket or complaint charging a violation of the
provisions of the rules of the road incorporated herein may note that the
offense is being charged as a violation of this section, but may also describe
the specific offense using the statutory section number from 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes. All references in the Illinois vehicle code, as adopted
herein, to "this code" shall be to sections of the Illinois vehicle code.
References to a state employee or official may be construed to be a
corresponding village employee or official where such reference is applicable
or necessary. (Ord. 97-11, 2-18-1997; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 00-01, 1-11-2000)
6-1-2: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the instructions
of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of an ordinance or in
accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on direction of a police
officer. All signs and signals established by direction of the governing body
shall conform to the state "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices" for
streets and highways. (Ord. 64-01, 4-13-1964; amd. 1998 Code)
6-1-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation, Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no fine is provided elsewhere in this title shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, provided, however, that the penalty for
failure to use a safety belt shall be the fine set forth in the Illinois
vehicle code, as amended from time to time. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Arrests: Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by
statute. The police officer in command at the station may prescribe the amount;
provided, that in no instance shall the bail or bond exceed the maximum
provided by law.
   C.   Tickets: For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless
driving, police officers, after making note of the license number of the
vehicle (and name of the offender where possible), may issue a traffic
violation ticket notifying the offender to appear in court at the time
designated for hearing such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the
issuance of a warrant if the offender does not appear at the time and place so
specified. (Ord. 64-01, 4-13-1964)
CHAPTER 2
LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Speed Limits
6-2-2: Stopping, Standing And Parking
6-2-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2-2: General
6-2-2-3: Parking Restrictions
6-2-2-4: Free Parking Lots
6-2-2-5: Reserved Parking Lots
6-2-2-6: Penalties
6-2-3: Electronic Communication Devices
6-2-4: One-Way Streets Enumerated
6-2-5: No Passing Zones
6-2-6: Traffic On Equestrian Trails
6-2-7: Nonlicensed Motor Vehicles
6-2-8: Operation Of Recreational Vehicles
6-2-9: Overweight And/Or Overdimension Vehicles
6-2-10: Automated Traffic Law Enforcement Systems
6-2-10-1: Violations
6-2-10-2: Defenses
6-2-10-3: Notice Of Violation
6-2-10-4: Hearing
6-2-10-5: Nonresidents
6-2-10-6: Final Determination
6-2-10-7: Notice Of Determination Of Liability
6-2-10-8: Notice Of Final Determination
6-2-10-9: Petitions To Set Aside Determination
6-2-10-10: Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension
6-2-10-11: Driver's License Suspension
6-2-10-12: Penalty
6-2-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Maximum Speed Limits:
      1.   The maximum speed limits for all streets and roads within the
corporate limits of the Village, and under the jurisdiction of the Village,
shall be as follows:
   25 MILES PER HOUR
All private roads
Army Trail Road (from 50 feet west of Billy Burns Road to the CN Railroad
tracks)
Billy Burns Road
Derby Road
Elm Road
Glos Street
Guild Lane
Heritage Court
Kaelin Road
Keil Road
Lake Eleanor Court
Lake Eleanor Drive
Lysle Road
Nelson Drive
Orchard Lane
Pearson Lane
Peterson Road
Powis Road (from 500 feet south of Percheron Lane to 500 feet north of the
Prairie Path)
Prairie Lane
Pratt Road
Railroad Street
Ridge Lane
Sawmill Trail
School Street
Will Way
Woodland Court
Woodland Trail South
Woodland Trail West
   30 MILES PER HOUR
Munger Road
Powis Road (except from 500 feet south of Percheron Lane to 500 feet north of
the Prairie Path)
Smith Road (between Wiant Road and Route 59)
Weber Drive
   35 MILES PER HOUR
Army Trail Road (between 50 feet west of Billy Burns Road and the Kane-DuPage
County line and between Dunham Road and Illinois Route 25)
Army Trail Road (between Munger Road and from 500 feet east of the CN Railroad
tracks)
Country Club Road
   40 MILES PER HOUR
Smith Road, between Wiant Road and Powis Road (Ord. 18-23, 11-20-2018)
      2.   The maximum speed limit for all streets and roads within the Village
and under the jurisdiction of the Village not otherwise provided for herein is
hereby established at twenty five (25) miles per hour.
The maximum speed limits set out herein shall be applicable at all times during
the day and night. (Ord. 96-06, 5-21-1996)
   B.   Signs Posted: The Village shall cause to be erected at the proper place
or along the proper part and zone of said roads as hereinabove described,
appropriate signs giving notice of the limits established herein and
establishing the beginning of the speed zone. Electronic speed detecting
devices shall not be used within five hundred feet (500') beyond any sign which
initially establishes such speed zone in the direction of travel; provided,
however, that electronic speed detecting devices may be used within five
hundred feet (500') of a sign within a special school speed zone indicating
such zone, in conformance with the requirements of 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-604 and 5/11-605. (Ord. 96-06, 5-21-1996; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Violation, Penalty: Any person operating any motor vehicle in excess of
the maximum speed limits provided herein shall, at the option of the Chief of
Police or his officers, be issued a warning or citation under the appropriate
section of the Illinois Vehicle Code and shall be subject to the penalties as
prescribed therein, or may be charged with a violation of this section. Any
person found guilty of a violation of this section resulting from traveling at
a rate of speed in excess of the posted limit but not more than twenty five
(25) miles per hour over the posted limit shall be liable to a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than the maximum fine allowed in
section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, plus any court costs permitted or required
by law. Any person found guilty of traveling at a rate of speed in excess of
twenty five (25) miles per hour over the posted limit, but not more than thirty
four (34) miles per hour over the posted speed limit, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than the maximum fine
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, plus any court costs permitted or required
by law. Any person found guilty of traveling at a rate of speed in excess of
thirty five (35) miles an hour over the posted limit shall be liable for a fine
of not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than the maximum fine
allowed in section
1-4-1 of this Code, plus any court costs permitted or required by law. (Ord.
16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-2: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING:
6-2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them herein:
MUNICIPAL PARKING LOT: Any off street area designated for reserved or time
limit parking.
PARKWAY: That portion of a street between the curb lines and the adjacent
property lines or, if none, then between the roadway shoulders and the adjacent
property lines.
RESTRICTED OR TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONE: A certain designated section of a public
street or Municipal parking lot in which parking is permitted for designated
periods and for which signs are posted or the pavement has been marked giving
notice of such periods.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street between the regularly established curb lines
or, if none, then between the roadway shoulders.
STREET, ROAD, ROADWAY OR PUBLIC HIGHWAY: Every way set apart for public travel,
except alleyways, equestrian trails, footpaths and bicycle paths.
VEHICLE: Any device by which any person or property may be transported upon a
public highway, except those operated upon rails and permanent tracks. (Ord.
03-24, 10-21-2003)
6-2-2-2: GENERAL:
   A.   Signs Required: The chief of police shall cause signs to be posted in
all areas where parking is limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or
prohibitions.
   B.   Night Parking On Streets: No person shall park a vehicle on any roadway
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any
date, except physicians on emergency calls or as authorized by the chief of
police or, in his absence, the on duty police supervisor, in exercise of his
sound discretion.
   C.   Parking For Purposes Of Sale: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle
upon any roadway from which merchandise is peddled.
   D.   Duties When Leaving Vehicle Unattended: No person driving or in charge
of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first stopping
the engine and removing the ignition key, and when standing upon any
perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake and turning the front
wheels to the curb or side of the roadway.
   E.   Unauthorized Parking On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any
person in charge of or operating a motor vehicle to cause such vehicle to be
parked on private property without the consent of the owner of such property.
   F.   Manner Of Parking:
      1.   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next
to the curb or shoulder, unless the roadway is designated as a one-way street
and the vehicle faced in the direction of the traffic flow, and it shall be
unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the
curb or roadway shoulder and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle
within twelve inches (12") of the established curb line or edge of the roadway
shoulder, except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb or shoulder
indicated by such marks.
      2.   No vehicle shall be parked on any lines or markings designating
parking spaces or in such a position so that the vehicle is not entirely within
the area designated by lines or markings.
   G.   Officers Authorized To Remove Vehicles:
      1.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety any unattended vehicle illegally left standing
upon any roadway or bridge, in such a position or under such circumstances as
to obstruct the normal movement of traffic.
      2.   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a garage designated by the chief of police or other place of safety
any vehicle found upon a roadway when:
         a.   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner;
         b.   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
         c.   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a magistrate without unnecessary delay.
   H.   Removal Of Tire Markings: When a tire, or tires, of a motor vehicle
have been marked by a police officer for the purpose of determining the length
of time said motor vehicle has been parked in a designated parking space, it
shall be unlawful for any person to remove said markings. (Ord. 03-24, 10-21-
2003)
6-2-2-3: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Parking Prohibited In Specified Places: No person shall park a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of
the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   On a crosswalk;
      5.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk;
      6.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      7.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
      8.   Alongside or opposite any roadway excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic;
      9.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      10.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
      11.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      12.   In the front yard of any lot, except on the driveway portion
thereof;
      13.   On that portion of any publicly or privately dedicated street lying
between the property line and the improved portion of said street, commonly
referred to as "the parkway", without the permission of the person or entity
owning or controlling such street;
      14.   At any place designated as a fire lane;
      15.   At any place where the street or curb is painted yellow.
No person other than a police officer shall move a vehicle into any such
prohibited area or away from a curb or shoulder such distance as is unlawful or
start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change,
or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears, or other mechanism of a
parked motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the
owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so.
   B.   No Parking Zones Enumerated: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park a vehicle in any of the following designated places at any time:
Railroad Street, on the east side thereof, between the U.S. postal service
parking lot and Army Trail Road.
Railroad Street, on the west side thereof, between the police station and the
southerly limits of the village hall/police station site.
   C.   Standing Of Vehicles Restricted For Specified Places: During the times
specified in this section it shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to
stand a passenger vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the
loading or unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes, and for
the driver to stand any service or delivery vehicle for a period of time longer
than is necessary to load, unload or deliver materials, not to exceed thirty
(30) minutes, in any of the following places:
   Billy Burns Road - along its entire length.
   Cedar Lane - along its entire length.
   Elm Road - along its entire length.
   Glos Street - that portion west of Guild Lane.
   Orchard Lane - along its entire length.
   Pearson Lane - along its entire length.
   Pratt Road - along its entire length.
   Will Way - along its entire length.
   D.   Special Parking Permits: The chief of police shall, upon application,
issue special parking permits to residents of the roads enumerated in
subsection C of this section only, not more than four (4) times each year, for
use on a specific date only, allowing the parking of vehicles on such road for
private, noncommercial purposes such as, but not limited to, picnics, parties,
family reunions or similar activity. The chief of police shall not issue any
permits for such parking unless he shall first determine that the number and
proposed location of vehicles to be parked in the road right of way will not
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the free and uninterrupted passage of
emergency vehicles. No overnight parking of vehicles shall be permitted under
any circumstances. All such special permits shall expire not later than eleven
fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on the date for which they are issued. The
chief of police shall issue the permits provided for under this section without
charge or fee.
   E.   Parking During Snow Emergencies:
      1.   Parking Restricted:
         a.   Parking After Snowfall: It shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle for a period of time longer than five (5) minutes for the loading and
unloading of passengers, or thirty (30) minutes for the loading, unloading,
pick up or delivery of materials from commercial vehicles within the pavement
or on the shoulder of any public road in the village at any time the snow on
the street exceeds three inches (3") or more in depth (2 inches or more on
designated snow emergency routes) and until the snow stops falling and for the
necessary period of time until all snow removal operations have been completed.
         b.   Parking After Snow Forecast: It shall be unlawful to stand or
park any vehicle for a period of time longer than five (5) minutes for the
loading or unloading of passengers, or thirty (30) minutes for the loading,
unloading, pick up or delivery of materials from commercial vehicles within the
pavement or on the shoulder of any public road in the village between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. immediately following
any publicly broadcast U.S. weather service forecast for overnight snow
accumulation of three inches (3") or more.
      2.   Designated Snow Emergency Routes: The following roads within the
corporate limits of the village are hereby designated as snow emergency routes:
Army Trail Road
   Country Club Road
   Dunham Road
   Illinois State Route 25
   Illinois State Route 59
   Munger Road
   Powis Road
   Smith Road
   Weber Drive
This section shall supersede any applicable regulations of the county of Kane,
the county of DuPage or the state of Illinois on highways under county or state
jurisdiction only to the extent permitted by law.
      3.   Posting Signs: The public works department is hereby authorized and
directed to erect and maintain signs at the village limits and other
appropriate points within the village providing notice to the public that
parking or standing of vehicles is prohibited in snow emergencies as provided
by this section.
      4.   Towing Of Unlawfully Parked Vehicles: If the chief of police or his
designee shall determine that any vehicle is unlawfully parked in violation of
this section after an actual accumulation of three inches (3") or more of snow
(2 inches on designated snow emergency routes) and if the presence of such
vehicle will impede the safe or efficient plowing of the street, he may direct
such vehicle to be towed to a safe and secure location. The registered owner of
any such vehicle towed in accordance with the provisions of this section shall
be liable for all towing or storage costs, in addition to any fine otherwise
payable for a violation of this section. Notice of the towing of any unlawfully
parked vehicle shall be given as soon as practicable (but in no case more than
48 hours after towing) by personal delivery to the registered owner thereof (if
to a residence within the corporate limits of the village), and by certified
mail, return receipt requested, stating the time and date of the offense, the
description, serial number and license tag of the vehicle, the location to
which the vehicle was removed, and the amount, if known, of towing charges.
   F.   Establishment Of Time Limit Parking Areas: Time limit parking spaces
may be established by ordinance passed by the board of trustees. Upon occupying
a time limit parking space, such space may be lawfully occupied by such vehicle
for the time period designated in this section
6-2-2 and so posted on appropriate signs. If any vehicle remains parked in any
parking space beyond the parking time limit as fixed by this section
6-2-2 and the posted signs, it shall constitute illegal parking and the vehicle
shall be considered parked overtime.
   G.   Time Limit Parking Areas Enumerated: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle in any of the following places for a consecutive
period of time longer than indicated in this section:
FIFTEEN MINUTE PARKING
Those parking spaces designated "Fifteen Minute Parking" by the posting of
signs or marking of the pavement in lot M-1, sometimes referred to as village
hall parking lot, situated on the west side of Railroad Street, north of Wayne
village hall.
   H.   Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Handicapped Persons: It
shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle which is not bearing registration
plates or decals issued to a handicapped person as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a handicapped person, in any parking place, including any
private or public off street parking facility, specifically reserved, by the
posting of an official sign for the motor vehicles bearing such registration
plates or decals.
   I.   Parking Of Commercial Vehicles In Residential Areas Prohibited: It
shall be unlawful for any person to park a commercial vehicle on any public
road, street or way located within a single-family or multiple-family
residential zoning district except when making a delivery or rendering a
service at premises located within such zoning district. For purposes of this
section, "commercial vehicle" shall be as defined in section 1-111.8 of the
Illinois vehicle code and having a gross vehicle weight in excess of eight
thousand (8,000) pounds. (Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003)
6-2-2-4: FREE PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Applicability Of Section: This section shall apply to all public
parking lots owned, leased or controlled by the village, except those or
portions thereof in which parking is controlled or regulated by parking
permits.
   B.   Free Parking: Subject to the restrictions of this section, all persons
may park vehicles in such parking lots without payment of a parking fee or the
requirement of a permit by the individuals parking such vehicles.
   C.   Lot Regulations: Vehicles shall be parked only between lines indicating
parking stalls, which lines are now or hereafter marked on the surface of the
parking lots. Parking in areas marked "No Parking", or contrary to any other
posted signs, or in any other manner which will interfere with traffic into,
through, or out of a parking lot is prohibited. Vehicles shall not exceed a
speed limit of ten (10) miles per hour.
   D.   Free Parking Lots Enumerated:
Lot M-1 situated on the west side of Railroad Street, north of Wayne village
hall, except those spaces designated as reserved permit spaces. (Ord. 03-24,
10-21-2003)
6-2-2-5: RESERVED PARKING LOTS:
Applicability of this section shall apply to all public parking lots owned,
leased or controlled by the village in which permits for parking are required.
   A.   Designation: The following parking lots or portions thereof are hereby
designated as reserved permit parking lots and are authorized for parking only
of vehicles bearing currently valid permits in accordance with the provisions
of this section:
Lot M-1 situated on the west side of Railroad Street north of Wayne village
hall, except those spaces designated for free time limit parking.
   B.   Issuance Of Parking Permits: The village clerk shall cause suitable
reserved parking permits to be prepared and made available for issuance. Such
permits shall be issued only for vehicles owned by employees or officials of
governmental agencies.
   C.   Night Parking: Parking between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. shall not be permitted in public parking lots
with the exception of vehicles owned or operated by village officials and
village employees while those officials are engaged in their official duties,
and law enforcement officers.
   D.   Permit Alteration Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deface, change or alter any parking permit issued pursuant to this section
6-2-2.
   E.   Violations Of This Section: Notwithstanding any contrary provision in
this section, no permit shall be issued to any permit holder who pleads guilty
to or is convicted of more than three (3) violations of any of the provisions
of this section within any consecutive period of six (6) months.
   F.   Storage Of Vehicles Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park, place or situate a vehicle in a reserved or free parking lot owned,
leased or controlled by the village for the storage of motor vehicle or motor
vehicles; and it shall be unlawful for any person to in any way utilize any
parking permit issued by the village for the storage of motor vehicle or motor
vehicles. "Storage" is defined as the continuous presence of a motor vehicle in
a reserved or free parking lot, owned, leased or controlled by the village for
a period of seventy two (72) hours or longer. Any person found guilty of
violating this subsection shall be ineligible for any reserved parking permit
for a period of one year from the date of the finding of guilty.
   G.   Marking Parking Spaces; Parking And Movement Requirements: Suitable
markings approved by the chief of police shall be painted or placed upon the
pavement, curb, street or other location for the purpose of designating parking
spaces within each permit parking lot. Each vehicle parked within each permit
parking lot shall be parked wholly within such markings. Parking in areas
marked "no parking" or contrary to posted signs or in any other manner that
will interfere with traffic into, through or out of a permit parking lot shall
be unlawful. Vehicles shall not exceed a speed of ten (10) miles per hour.
(Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003)
6-2-2-6: PENALTIES:
The violation claim described in a citation so to be issued pursuant to the
terms of this section
6-2-2 may be settled, compromised and paid in the respective amounts set forth
in the following schedule:
   A.   In the event that said payment is made within seven (7) days from the
date of the citation, the following amounts shall be accepted as settlement:
(Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003)
1. Parking overtime in a time limit area:
   a. First offense                                             $ 10.00
   b. Subsequent offenses for same date and space               20.00
2. Parking between 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.                      15.00
3. Parking in prohibited parking zone                           15.00
4. Parking, standing or stopping where prohibited               15.00
5. Parking in a reserved parking space without a valid permit   15.00
6. Parking where restricted                                     15.00
7. Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with 250.00
   disabilities
8. Parking at any place designated as a fire lane               150.00
 
(Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003; amd. Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
   B.   In the event that payment has not been paid within seven (7) days from
the date of the citation, the following amounts shall be accepted as
settlement: (Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003)
1. Parking overtime in a time limit area:
   a. First offense                                             $ 20.00
   b. Subsequent offenses for same date and space               40.00
2. Parking between 2:00 A.M. and 6:00 A.M.                      30.00
3. Parking in prohibited parking zone                           30.00
4. Parking, standing or stopping where prohibited               30.00
5. Parking in a reserved parking space without a valid permit   30.00
6. Parking where restricted                                     30.00
7. Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with 350.00
   disabilities
8. Parking at any place designated as a fire lane               300.00
 
(Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003; amd. Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
   C.   In the event that payment is not made within fourteen (14) days of the
date of the citation, the amount payable hereunder will be increased by the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00); and the matter turned over to a collection
agent, or a complaint may be filed in a court of competent jurisdiction and
served. Payment of any fine and costs shall be in such amounts as may be
established by a court of competent jurisdiction within the limits prescribed
by section
1-4-1 of this code or other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 03-24,
10-21-2003)
Notwithstanding the foregoing schedule of fines and penalties, any person who
removes any mark placed on a tire by a police officer or who parks on private
property without the consent of the owner, or who interferes with, damages,
removes, tampers with, disables a vehicle wheel lock, shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 03-24, 10-21-2003)
6-2-3: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION DEVICES:
   A.   Definition: "Electronic communication device" means an electronic
device, including, but not limited to, a handheld wireless telephone, handheld
personal digital assistant, or a portable or mobile computer, but does not
include a global positioning system or navigation system or a device that is
physically or electronically integrated into the motor vehicle.
   B.   Prohibition; Exceptions: A person may not operate a motor vehicle on a
roadway while using an electronic communication device. This section does not
apply to:
      1.   A law enforcement officer or operator of an emergency vehicle while
performing his or her official duties;
      2.   A driver using an electronic communication device for the sole
purpose of reporting an emergency situation and continued communication with
emergency personnel during the emergency situation;
      3.   A driver using an electronic communication device in hands free or
voice operated mode, which may include the use of a headset;
      4.   A driver of a commercial motor vehicle reading a message displayed
on a permanently installed communication device designed for a commercial motor
vehicle with a screen that does not exceed ten inches (10") tall by ten inches
(10") wide in size;
      5.   A driver using an electronic communication device while parked on
the shoulder of a roadway;
      6.   A driver using an electronic communication device when the vehicle
is stopped due to normal traffic being obstructed and the driver has the motor
vehicle transmission in neutral or park;
      7.   A driver using two-way citizens band radio services;
      8.   A driver using two-way mobile radio transmitters or receivers for
licensees of the federal communications commission in the amateur radio
service;
      9.   A driver using an electronic communication device by pressing a
single button to initiate or terminate a voice communication; or
      10.   A driver using an electronic communication device capable of
performing multiple functions, other than a handheld wireless telephone or
handheld personal digital assistant (for example, a fleet management system,
dispatching device, citizens band radio, or music player) for a purpose that is
not otherwise prohibited by this section.
   C.   Penalty: A second or subsequent violation of this section is an offense
against traffic regulations governing the movement of vehicles. A person who
violates this section shall be fined a maximum of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
for a first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a second offense, one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) for a third offense, and one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for a fourth or subsequent offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-
2016)
6-2-4: ONE-WAY STREETS ENUMERATED:
The following streets are hereby designated as one-way streets, by indicating
the street, direction of travel and portion limited to one-way traffic:
Glos Street, westbound from School Street to Railroad Street.
School Street, northbound, from Army Trail Road to Glos Street. (Ord. 02-17, 9-
17-2002)
6-2-5: NO PASSING ZONES:
   A.   Streets Designated: The following streets and portions thereof are
designated as no passing zones:
Army Trail Road located between Dunham Road and Illinois State Route 25.
Those portions of Country Club Road located within the corporate boundaries of
the village and between Dunham Road and Illinois State Route 25.
Eastbound Army Trail Road beginning fifty feet (50') west of Billy Burns Road
to the Elgin, Joliet & Eastern Railroad tracks.
Westbound Army Trail Road from the easterly right of way of the Elgin, Joliet &
Eastern Railroad tracks to fifty feet (50') west of Billy Burns Road.
Those portions of Smith Road located within the corporate boundaries of the
village and between Powis Road and Illinois Route 59. (Ord. 90-24, 1-6-1990;
amd. Ord. 98-17, 10-20-1998; Ord. 10-15, 9-21-2010)
   B.   Signs Posted: The village shall cause appropriate markings to be placed
from the beginning to the end of those portions of streets listed in subsection
A of this section. (Ord. 90-24, 1-6-1990)
   C.   Penalty: The penalty for any violation of any provision of this section
shall be a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each time a violation occurs. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-6: TRAFFIC ON EQUESTRIAN TRAILS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle with or without a state
license on any equestrian trail within the village. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-7: NONLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions:
    ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: A motor vehicle which is all of the following:
      1.   Designed for operation off of the highway by an operator with no
more than two (2) passengers;
      2.   Fifty inches (50") or less in width;
      3.   Six hundred (600) pounds or less unladen weight;
      4.   Suspended on three (3) or more low pressure tires;
      5.   Has a single seat designed to be straddled by the operator;
      6.   Has either a driving wheel or handlebars for steering control.
   NONLICENSED MOTOR VEHICLE: A minibike, motorized vehicle, all-terrain
carrier, snowmobile, miniature auto, go-cart or any vehicle designed to carry a
person or persons other than an automobile, truck or tractor.
   OPERATE: To ride in or on, use, or control a nonlicensed motorized vehicle
in any manner.
   PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency, club or organization of any kind. (Ord. 86-07, 10-13-1986;
amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Uses: It shall be unlawful for:
      1.   Any person to drive or operate any unlicensed motor vehicle in a
careless, reckless or negligent manner;
      2.   Any person to operate any nonlicensed motorized vehicle within the
village between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M., daily;
      3.   A parent, legal guardian, or other person to knowingly permit any
person in his custody or control under the age of eighteen (18) years to
violate any provision of this section;
      4.   Any person to drive or operate any nonlicensed motorized vehicle on
the streets, alleys, rights of way or public property within the village;
      5.   Any person to drive, operate or use any nonlicensed motorized
vehicle on private property within the village without the consent of the owner
or leasee of the said private property. (Ord. 86-07, 10-13-1986)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision
of this section shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-8: OPERATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, when used in this
section, shall, for the purpose hereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed
to them, except when the context otherwise requires:
    ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device fifty inches (50") or
less in width, having a manufacturer's dry weight of six hundred (600) pounds
or less, traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, designed with a
seat or saddle for operator use, and handlebars or steering wheel for steering
control.
   OFF HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE: Any motorized device designed to travel primarily
off highway on two (2) wheels, having a seat or saddle for the use of the
operator, upon or by which any person or property may be transported or drawn.
   PRIVATE ROAD: Every way or place in private ownership (but excluding private
driveways) and used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PRIVATELY MAINTAINED ROAD: Any nonpublic road, whether dedicated by
easement, plat or otherwise, not maintained by any public entity but used or
useful for access by police, fire or other emergency vehicles, and used for
vehicular travel by the owner or owners and those having express or implied
permission from the owner or owners, but excluding any driveways which provide
access to a single residential parcel only.
   SNOWMOBILE: Any self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts or cleats.
   B.   Prohibited Operation: Operation of all-terrain vehicles, off highway
motorcycles and snowmobiles on any private roads or streets, including all
privately maintained roads and highways within the village, is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and shall be unlawful except as otherwise provided as
follows:
      1.   Permitted Direct Road Crossings: All-terrain vehicles, off highway
motorcycles and snowmobiles may make a direct crossing of a private road or
street, or privately maintained road or highway provided:
         a.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the street, road or highway, and at a place where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         b.   The all-terrain vehicle, off highway motorcycle or snowmobile is
brought to a complete stop before attempting a crossing;
         c.   The operator of the all-terrain vehicle, off highway motorcycle
or snowmobile yields the right of way to all pedestrian and vehicular traffic
which constitutes a hazard; and
         d.   That when crossing a divided highway, the crossing is made only
at an intersection of the highway with another public street, road or highway.
(Ord. 94-29, 12-6-1994)
      2.   Operation In Forest Preserves: This section shall not be construed
to prohibit the use or operation of any all-terrain vehicle, off highway
motorcycle or snowmobile in any land under the jurisdiction of a forest
preserve district, to the extent that such vehicles are expressly authorized to
operate within the forest preserve pursuant to applicable ordinances, rules or
regulations of said district or police related functions. (Ord. 94-29, 12-6-
1994; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Enforcement: The Wayne police department shall enforce the provisions
of this section except that no citation for violation thereof shall be issued
if a citation may be issued for violation of any applicable provision of the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-101 et seq., or the
snowmobile registration and safety act, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1-
1 et seq. (Ord. 94-29, 12-6-1994)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who violates or knowingly permits others to violate
any provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each and every unlawful operation of an
all-terrain vehicle, off highway motorcycle or snowmobile as provided herein
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-9: OVERWEIGHT AND/OR OVERDIMENSION VEHICLES:
   A.   Size And Weight Restrictions:
      1.   Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to
drive, to park or move on, upon or across, or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be parked, driven or moved upon or across, any street or
highway under the jurisdiction of the village, any vehicle or combination of
vehicles exceeding the size and weight limitations stated in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 5/15-103 (height), 5/15-107 (length) and 5/
15-111 (weight). (Ord. 97-11, 2-18-1997)
         b.   Pursuant to the authority provided by 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/15-316, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in excess of ten
thousand (10,000) pounds or any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
(GVWR) in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds on any street in the village
except state highways and county roads, and where such prohibitions are posted.
(Ord. 97-12A, 3-18-1997)
      2.   While operating on village streets, size and weight limitations
shall not apply to fire apparatus or equipment for snow or ice removal
operations owned or operated by or for any governmental body or to implements
of husbandry temporarily operated or towed in combination in the furtherance of
a farm or agricultural endeavor and to any vehicle or combination of vehicles
operating under the terms of a valid oversize and/or overdimension permit
issued by the village under the authority of subsection B of this section.
      3.   Where lower size and weight limits or other restrictions are imposed
by ordinance, under authority of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-316 and 5/
15-317, and signs indicating such limitations or restrictions are posted, it
shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or combination of vehicles in excess
of such size or weight limitations or in violation of such restrictions.
      4.   It shall be unlawful to operate any "construction vehicle", as
defined herein, on any street in the municipality when signs are posted on that
street prohibiting "construction vehicles". "Construction vehicle" shall be
defined as any vehicle over ten thousand (10,000) pounds' actual weight,
registered gross weight or GVWR that is required to comply with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/12-712 and 5/12-713 on identification required to be
displayed.
      5.   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this section, the owner and/or driver of such vehicle shall be
deemed guilty of such violation and either or both the owner or driver of such
vehicle(s) may be prosecuted for such violation.
      6.   As provided under the authority of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
15-316, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any street where the
operation of that vehicle is prohibited by ordinance and where signs of such
prohibition are posted.
   B.   Permits For Overweight And/Or Overdimension Vehicles:
      1.   Application: With respect to any street or highway under its
jurisdiction and upon application to the village police department on forms
provided by the village and good cause being shown therefor, the village may
issue a special permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle
or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the
maximum specified in subsection A of this section. The applicant shall furnish
the following information in the special permit application:
         a.   The name and address of the owner or lessee of the vehicle;
         b.   Applicant's name;
         c.   Type of permit requested, whether it be for a single trip, round
trip or multiple routing;
         d.   Whether the applicant is an authorized carrier under the Illinois
commercial transportation law, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18C-1101 et
seq., and if so, his certificate, registration or permit number issued by the
Illinois commerce commission (i.e., description and registration of the power
unit);
         e.   Description of the vehicle or vehicles and load to be operated or
moved. If the vehicle or vehicle combinations are registered by the department
of transportation, as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-319, then
only the Illinois department of transportation's (IDOT) registration number or
classification need be given;
         f.   The number of axles of the vehicle or combination of vehicles;
         g.   The axle weights of all single, tandem or series axles;
         h.   Gross weight of vehicle;
         i.   The width, length and height of the vehicle and load;
         j.   The origin of the load within Illinois or state line if the
origin is outside the jurisdiction of the village; copies of all county and/or
state of Illinois permits must be attached to the application prior to approval
and issuance of a special village permit;
         k.   Whether the vehicles or loads are being transported for hire;
         l.   Requested routing over village streets and to specific location,
including the points of origin and destination;
         m.   Except for an application to move directly across a highway, a
statement by the applicant that the load to be moved by such a vehicle or
combination of vehicles cannot reasonably be dismantled or disassembled. (Ord.
97-11, 2-18-1997)
      2.   Fees: The owner or his agent shall submit an application fee as
follows:
 
Type Of Permit      Fee     Late Fee Calendar Days Valid
Single trip routing $200.00 $350.00  7 days
Round trip routing  300.00  450.00   14 days
Multiple routing    500.00  750.00   120 days
 
Permits are valid only for the date(s) specified on the permit and for the
specific vehicle, load and routing as established by the chief of police or his
designee. No substitution of vehicle, load or routing is permitted without
express written permission by the chief of police or his designee and which
written permission shall be carried in the vehicle to which the permit applies.
(Ord. 11-19, 11-15-2011)
      3.   Issuance: The chief of police or his designee is authorized to
approve the application for approved routes. Upon approval and payment of all
required fees, the chief of police shall issue a permit allowing passage of the
oversized and/or overweight vehicle(s) over village streets. The permit shall
be specific and contain:
         a.   Permit number;
         b.   The date(s) the permit is valid;
         c.   Whether the permit is single, round or multiple routing;
         d.   The description of object or vehicle to be moved;
         e.   Authorized gross weight, axle weights, width, length and height;
         f.   The authorized routing over village streets including the origin
and termination point within the village;
         g.   The fee paid;
         h.   The date and signature of the chief of police or his designee.
In addition, the permit will specify general conditions that the permittee must
comply with that are consistent and reasonable for the protection of the
general public and village streets. A copy of all permits issued will be
provided to the public works department for information and compliance.
      4.   Conditions Of Permit: It is the duty of the permittee to read the
permit provisions upon receipt. Undertaking of the permit move is deemed prima
facie evidence of acceptance of the permit and that:
         a.   The permittee is in compliance with all operation requirements;
         b.   All dimension and weight limitations specified in the permit will
not be exceeded;
         c.   All operation, registration and license requirements have been
complied with;
         d.   All financial responsibilities, obligations and other legal
requirements have been met; and
         e.   The permittee assumes all responsibility for injury or damage to
persons or to public or private property, including his own, or to the object
being transported, caused directly or indirectly by the transportation or
movement of vehicles and objects authorized under the permit. He agrees to hold
the village harmless from all suits, claims, damages or proceedings of any kind
and to indemnify the village for any claim it may be required to pay arising
from the movement.
      5.   Permit Carried In Vehicle: The permit shall be carried in the
vehicle to which the permit applies at all times while operating on streets
within the village and shall be exhibited upon demand to any enforcement
officer, police officer or other authorized official of the village.
      6.   Violation: Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the
provisions of a village permit, whether it be by size, weight or general
provisions, either or both the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty and either or both the owner or the driver of such vehicle may be
prosecuted for such violation. (Ord. 97-11, 2-18-1997)
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating any provision of this section shall, in
addition to any fine or penalty permitted or established by authority of the
Illinois vehicle code, be liable for a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each separate incident involving an
overweight or overdimension vehicle shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
(Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
6-2-10: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Findings: The president and board of trustees hereby find that:
      1.   The village of Wayne (hereinafter, the "village"), pursuant to
public acts 94-095 and 96-1016, which amend the Illinois vehicle code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq., is vested with authority to
implement an automated traffic enforcement system in order to monitor motorist
compliance with traffic control signals at intersections and to devise a system
of administrative adjudication to enforce the same; and
      2.   The village, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.6,
may enact an ordinance providing for an automated traffic law enforcement
system to enforce state and local traffic control signal laws and regulations
through the use of electronic monitoring devices and by imposing liability on
the registered owners of vehicles violating such state laws and local
provisions; and
      3.   The village, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3
and 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., may enact a system of
administrative adjudication to adjudicate violations of regulations related to
automated traffic law violations; and
      4.   The president and board of trustees of the village are desirous of
providing a fair and efficient method of enforcing certain village regulations
through administrative adjudication of violations regarding the display of
municipal and automated traffic law violations; and
      5.   The village, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208(a)
(2), may regulate traffic through the use of traffic control signals; and
      6.   The village, pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208(a)
(15), may adopt traffic regulations as authorized by the Illinois vehicle code;
and
      7.   The president and board of trustees of the village believe that
instituting a system of administrative adjudication to adjudicate contested
matters with respect to the automated traffic law enforcement system will
facilitate prompt and just resolution of disputes.
   B.   Definitions:
    AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device within the village with
one or more motor vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light
signal to produce recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection
against a steady or flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-
306 of the Illinois vehicle code ("IVC"), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306, or similar violation of this code.
   DISREGARDING A TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: Failure to stop and remain stopped
before an intersection that is controlled by a red signal as provided for in
section 11-306 of the IVC.
   NO TURN ON RED: Where the motor vehicle comes to a complete stop and does
not enter the intersection as defined by section 1-132 of the IVC 1 , during
the cycle of the red signal indication unless one or more pedestrians or
bicyclists are present, even if the motor vehicle stops at a point past a stop
line or crosswalk where a driver is required to stop, as specified in
subsection (c) of section 11-306 of the IVC 2  or this chapter.
   RECORDED IMAGES: Images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement
system, which consist of either two (2) or more photographs; two (2) or more
microphotographs; two (2) or more electronic images; or, a video recording
showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image or portion of the
recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number of the motor
vehicle.
   TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The person appointed as such by the chief
of police and who is a law enforcement or a retired law enforcement officer of
the village and who shall have the following powers: to adopt, distribute and
process automated traffic law violation notices and other notices required by
this chapter, to collect money paid as fines and penalties, operate the
automated traffic law enforcement system, and to make certified reports to the
secretary of state as required by this chapter. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-
1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-132.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-306.
6-2-10-1: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for a vehicle to disregard a traffic
control device or turn on red in violation of section 11-306 of the IVC 1 . All
violations must be reviewed and approved by a law enforcement officer or a
retired law enforcement officer of the village. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-
1-2011)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-306.
6-2-10-2: DEFENSES:
The following may be considered defenses by the hearing officer for a violation
of section
6-2-10-1 of this chapter:
   A.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred, and not under the control of or in the
possession of the owner at the time of the violation. To demonstrate that the
motor vehicle or the registration plates were stolen before the violation
occurred and that either or both were not under the control or possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, the owner must submit proof that a
report concerning the stolen motor vehicle or registration plates was filed
with a law enforcement agency in a timely manner.
   B.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either: 1) in order to yield the right of way to an emergency
vehicle, or 2) as part of a funeral procession. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-
1-2011)
6-2-10-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   When the automated traffic law enforcement system records a motor
vehicle entering an intersection in violation of section
6-2-10-1 of this chapter, the village shall issue a written notice of violation
to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be delivered by
U.S. mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois secretary of state
notifies the village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the violation.
The village shall only be required to notify a lessee if the leasing company/
lessor provides the lessee's name by an affidavit and a copy of the lease
within sixty (60) days of issuance of the notice. If the driver information is
not provided within sixty (60) days, the leasing company/lessor may be found
liable. If any notice to an address is returned as undeliverable, a second
notice shall be sent to the last known address recorded in a United States post
office approved database of the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle. The
second notice shall be made by first class mail, postage prepaid.
   B.   A notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by the
traffic compliance administrator, who shall inspect the image and determine
whether the motor vehicle was being operated in violation of section
6-2-10-1 of this chapter, or whether one of the defenses enumerated in section
6-2-10-2 of this chapter is visibly applicable upon inspection. Upon
determination that the recorded image captures a violation and that no defense
applies, the notice of violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle
owner in the manner provided for above. The traffic compliance administrator
shall retain a copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other
correspondence mailed to the owner of the vehicle. Each notice of violation
shall constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is
admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation of the above noted statutory
and local provisions and shall be prima facie evidence of a violation, subject
to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in this chapter.
The notice of violation shall include the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the secretary of state, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States post office approved database;
      2.   The make (only if discernable) and registration number of the motor
vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   The violation charged;
      4.   The location where the violation occurred;
      5.   The date and time of the violation;
      6.   A copy of the recorded images;
      7.   The amount of the civil penalty and the date by which the penalty
should be paid (14 days from the date of issuance), if a hearing is not
requested, and a statement that the payment of the fine shall operate as a
final disposition of the violation;
      8.   A statement that a failure to pay the civil penalty by the date
noted may result in an additional late fee being assessed against the owner or
lessee;
      9.   The amount of the late fee;
      10.   A statement that the failure to pay by the date specified will
result in a final determination of liability and may result in the suspension
of driving privileges for the registered owner of the vehicle;
      11.   A statement that the recorded images constitute prima facie
evidence of a violation;
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by paying the fine
or challenging the charge in court, by mail or by administrative hearing;
      13.   A statement of how an administrative hearing may be requested; and
      14.   A website address, accessible through the internet, where a person
may view the recorded images of the violation. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-
1-2011)
6-2-10-4: HEARING:
The owner of a vehicle being operated in violation of section
6-2-10-1 of this chapter may request a hearing by the respond by date on the
notice of violation (14 days from the date of issuance), to challenge the
evidence or set forth an applicable defense. The notice of violation shall
constitute evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in
any proceeding alleging a violation of section
6-2-10-1 of this chapter. The notice of violation shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation, subject to rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in
section
6-2-10-2 of this chapter.
The owner's failure to appear at the hearing will result in a finding of
liability. In the event of a failure to appear, a "findings, decision and
order" letter will be sent to the owner. The owner's failure to pay the amount
by the date specified in that letter will result in a final determination.
(Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
6-2-10-5: NONRESIDENTS:
Where the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle is not a resident of
the village but seeks to contest the merits of the alleged violation, such
person may contest the charges using the same available defenses as stated
above, but rather than attend the administrative hearing, they may submit any
and all documentary evidence to the traffic compliance administrator no later
than the hearing date, together with a written statement reflecting that they
are nonresidents of the village. The traffic compliance administrator shall
forward all timely submitted materials to the hearing officer for review and
determination. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
6-2-10-6: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A final determination of an automated traffic law violation(s) liability shall
occur:
   A.   Following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty after
the hearing officer's determination of automated traffic law violation(s)
liability within the required twenty five (25) days and the exhaustion of or
the failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set
forth, or
   B.   Where a person fails to appear at a hearing for an automated traffic
law violation on the date and at the time and place specified in a prior mailed
notice. The hearing officer's determination of automated traffic law violation
(s) liability shall become final upon the exhaustion of or the failure to
exhaust any administrative or judicial review procedures hereinafter set forth:
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
6-2-10-7: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A determination of automated traffic law violation liability shall occur
following failure to pay the fine or penalty, or to contest the alleged
violation within fourteen (14) days of the notice of violation. Where a person
fails to appear at a hearing to contest the alleged violation in the time and
manner specified in a prior mailed notice, the hearing officer will enter
findings, decision and order's determination of automated traffic law violation
liability which shall become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set
aside that determination, or b) upon expiration of the period for filing such a
petition without a filing having been made. If a person appears at a hearing
and is found liable or contests the violation by mail and is found liable, the
hearing officer will enter findings, decision and order, which is a final
determination of automated traffic law violation liability that is a final,
appealable order. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
6-2-10-8: NOTICE OF FINAL DETERMINATION:
A notice of final determination shall be sent following the final determination
of automated traffic law violation liability and the conclusion of judicial
review. The notice of final determination shall include the following
information:
   A.   A statement that the unpaid fine is a debt due and owing to the
village, and
   B.   A warning that a failure to pay any fine due and owing to the village
of Wayne within fourteen (14) days may result in a petition to the circuit
court for the 18th judicial circuit, DuPage County, Illinois, to have the
unpaid fine rendered as a judgment or may result in the suspension of the
person's driver's license for failure to pay fines or penalties for five (5) or
more violations under this chapter. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
6-2-10-9: PETITIONS TO SET ASIDE DETERMINATION:
A petition to set aside determination of an automated traffic law violation
must be filed with or mailed to the traffic control administrator within
fourteen (14) days of the date of mailing of the notice of determination of
liability. The grounds for the petition are limited to the following:
   A.   The person was not the owner or lessee of the cited vehicle on the date
of issuance of the violation notice;
   B.   The person has already paid the fine for the violation in question; and
   C.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely petition to set aside the determination of liability,
the hearing officer shall review the petition to determine if cause has been
shown to set aside the determination. If cause has been shown, the village
shall forward the petitioner a new hearing date on which the petitioner must
appear to present his case. The village shall notify the petitioner of the
hearing officer's decision to grant a hearing or deny the petition within
fourteen (14) days of the village's receipt. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-
2011)
6-2-10-10: NOTICE OF IMPENDING DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
A notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent to the person
liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on five (5) or more
violations of this chapter. The notice of impending driver's license suspension
shall state the following information:
   A.   The failure to pay the fine owing within forty five (45) days of the
notice's date will result in the village notifying the secretary of state that
the person is eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under section
6-306.5 of the IVC 1 ;
   B.   A statement that the person may obtain a copy of the original ticket
imposing a fine by sending a self-addressed, stamped envelope to the village
along with a request for the copy.
The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent by first
class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the secretary of
state or, if any notice to that address is returned as undeliverable, to the
last known address recorded in a United States post office approved database.
(Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/6-306.5.
6-2-10-11: DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION:
The traffic compliance administrator, by certified report, may request that the
secretary of state suspend the driving privileges of an owner of a registered
vehicle who has failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing as a result of
five (5) automated traffic violations. The report shall be certified and
contain the following:
   A.   The name, last known address as recorded with the secretary of state,
as provided by the lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease, or as
recorded in a United States post office approved database if any notice sent
under this chapter is returned as undeliverable, and driver's license number of
the person who failed to pay the fine or penalty and the registration number of
any vehicle known to be registered to such person in a state;
   B.   A statement that it is the village making the report pursuant to this
section; and
   C.   A statement that a notice of impending driver's license suspension has
been sent to the person named in the report at the address recorded with the
secretary of state or at the last address known to the lessor of the cited
vehicle at the time of the lease or, if any notice sent under this chapter is
returned as undeliverable at the last known address recorded at a United States
post office approved database; the date on which such notice was sent; and
address to which such notice was sent.
The traffic compliance administrator shall notify the secretary of state
whenever a person named in the certified report has paid the previously
recorded fine or penalty or whenever the village determines that the original
report was in error. A certified copy of such notification shall also be given
upon request and at no additional charge to the person named therein.
Any person receiving notice from the secretary of state that their driving
privileges may be suspended at the end of a specified period may challenge the
accuracy of the certified report prepared by the traffic compliance
administrator. The person shall, within seven (7) days after having received
notice from the secretary of state, request an opportunity to speak with the
traffic compliance administrator to challenge the accuracy of the certified
report. If the traffic compliance administrator determines that the original
report was in error due to the fact that the person challenging the report was
not the owner or lessee of the vehicle or that the person has already paid the
fines for the five (5) or more automated traffic violations, the traffic
compliance administrator shall immediately notify the secretary of state of
such error in a subsequent certified report. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-
2011)
6-2-10-12: PENALTY:
The owner (or lessee) of a motor vehicle is subject to a penalty of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per automated traffic law violation. In the event that such
penalty is not paid within fourteen (14) days after service of a final
determination of liability, an additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) late
payment penalty shall be imposed. A penalty shall not apply if the driver of
the motor vehicle received a uniform traffic citation from a police officer at
the time of the violation. The village may not charge court costs or hearing
fees to persons found liable after exercising their right to appear and contest
the violation at an administrative hearing. (Ord. 10-22, 12-7-2010, eff. 1-1-
2011)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Enforce Traffic Regulations
6-3-2: Applicability Of Regulations
6-3-1: ENFORCE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The Village President and the Board of Trustees hereby accept the request of
the following private associations to enforce the provisions of the Illinois
Vehicle Code on all private streets or roads in the respective developments
listed below open to or used by tenants, owners, employees or the public for
the purposes of vehicular traffic by permission of such owners and not as a
matter of public right, as provided by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
209.1:
 
Development And/Or                  Streets
Association
                                    Bradford Parkway, Wiltshire Court, Warwick
Bradford Park Subdivision           Way, Somerset Court, Kingswood Court,
                                    Berkshire Court
Dunham North Subdivision            Oak Lawn Farm Road, Rochefort, Courcival,
                                    Serinne, Chambellan
Honey Hill Subdivision              Honey Hill Circle
North Country In Wayne Subdivision  Brewster Creek Road, Ashley Lane
Shagbark Lane                       Shagbark Lane
                                    Mountain Ash Drive, Honeysuckle Lane,
Woods of Wayne Subdivision          Magnolia Lane, Lakewood Court, Forsythia
                                    Lane, White Oak Lane, Maple Tree Lane
 
(Ord. 93-21, 10-19-1993; amd. Ord. 93-22, 10-19-1993; Ord. 93-23, 9-21-1993;
Ord. 93-24, 9-21-1993; Ord. 93-25, 9-21-1993; Ord. 93-26, 10-5-1993; Ord. 93-
29, 10-19-1993; 1998 Code)
6-3-2: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
This Chapter shall in no way constitute or be deemed to be a dedication to
public use of any street, road, driveway, trail, terrace, bridle path, parkway,
parking area or other roadway open to or used by vehicular traffic. (Ord. 93-
21, 10-19-1993; amd. Ord. 93-22, 10-19-1993; Ord. 93-23, 9-21-1993; Ord. 93-24,
9-21-1993; Ord. 93-25, 9-21-1993; Ord. 93-26, 10-5-1993; Ord. 93-29, 10-19-
1993)
CHAPTER 4
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: License Required
6-4-3: Application For License
6-4-4: Schedule Of Fees
6-4-5: License Term; Prorating Fees
6-4-6: Disposition Of License Fees
6-4-7: Stickers; Display Of Same
6-4-8: Removal/Transfer Of Stickers; Transfer Of Vehicles
6-4-9: Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms passenger car, motorized pedacycle, motorcycle, truck, recreational
vehicle, motor vehicle and antique vehicle shall have the same definitions as
set forth in section 1-101 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 , as amended from
time to time. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-101.
6-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person residing in the village, or any firm,
entity or corporation having its principal place of business in the village, or
which registers its motor vehicles to an address within the village or
principally garages a vehicle within the village, although said vehicle may be
registered in another municipality or state, to use or to cause or permit any
of its agents or employees to use any motor vehicle in transportation upon the
streets of the village unless said motor vehicle is licensed, as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
6-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license for any motor vehicle under this chapter shall
file an application with the village clerk upon a form provided by her, setting
forth the name and the address of the applicant, a description of the motor
vehicle for which the license is desired, its vehicle identification number,
the place where such motor vehicle is to be kept when not in use and also the
number and kinds of other motor vehicles kept by such applicant at such place
and such other information as may be reasonably prescribed by the village
clerk. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
6-4-4: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
The motor vehicle license fees to be paid annually, as provided in this
chapter, to the village treasurer are as follows: (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
   A.   Motorized pedacycle and motorcycle: Thirty dollars ($30.00); twenty
five dollars ($25.00) if obtained before July 1. (Class 1)
   B.   Passenger cars and vehicles having a gross weight of not more than
eight thousand (8,000) pounds, including the weight of the vehicle and maximum
load ("B" license plate): Sixty dollars ($60.00); fifty dollars ($50.00), if
obtained before July 1. (Class 2)
   C.   Vehicles having a gross weight of more than eight thousand (8,000)
pounds, including the weight of the vehicle and maximum load and all other
motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, trucks, recreational vehicles
and buses: One hundred twenty dollars ($120.00); one hundred dollars ($100.00)
if obtained before July 1. (Class 3) (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011; amd. Ord. 13-02,
2-5-2013)
   D.   Antique vehicles: Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a permanent license to be
affixed to the windshield, provided the vehicle is first licensed as an antique
by the Illinois secretary of state and satisfactory evidence thereof is
submitted to the village clerk. This is a onetime fee. (Class 4)
   E.   An individual of a household having a very low income for DuPage or
Kane Counties, as defined and established from time to time by the United
States department of housing and urban development, upon submitting evidence
satisfactory to the village treasurer to substantiate such income level, may
purchase motor vehicle licenses each year for motor vehicle(s) owned by him at
a discount of fifty percent (50%) of the fee applicable to such motor vehicle
(s) as set forth in this section. Only two (2) such licenses shall be issued
per household, per year. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
   F.   Fees for motor vehicles: 1) owned by persons establishing residency
within the village after July 1 of the calendar year; or 2) purchased after
July 1 but before January 1 of a calendar year, shall be charged the applicable
fee as set forth in this section, as if the same was paid prior to July 1 of
the calendar year. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011; amd. Ord. 13-02, 2-5-2013)
6-4-5: LICENSE TERM; PRORATING FEES:
   A.   Motor vehicle license fees shall be due and payable annually on or
before July 1 of each year. The fee for any additional vehicle acquired on or
after January 1 of any license year shall be one-half (1/2) the annual fee.
Persons owning or possessing any vehicle shall obtain a license and pay the fee
therefor within ten (10) days after acquiring or possessing the same. (Ord. 13-
05, 4-2-2013)
   B.   All owners and operators of motor vehicles who were required to have
and obtain a motor vehicle license for the year previous to the license year
for which a license is applied for, and who have not paid the fee nor obtained
the license for the previous license year, shall not be entitled to a license
for the current license year until the fees for the previous year have been
fully paid.
   C.   All licenses shall expire on June 30 following the date of issuance.
(Ord. 13-02, 2-5-2013)
6-4-6: DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES:
All revenues derived from license fees under this chapter shall be kept as a
separate fund and used only for paying costs or expenses of street improvements
or repairs and for other purposes provided by law. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
6-4-7: STICKERS; DISPLAY OF SAME:
   A.   Upon the issuance of a license under this chapter, the village clerk
shall deliver to the applicant a sticker bearing a number and the name of the
class to which the vehicle in question belongs and the year for which the
license is issued. The sticker shall be fastened upon the lower right inside
corner of the windshield of the licensed vehicle, provided, however, that the
sticker for a motorized pedacycle or motorcycle having no windshield shall be
carried on the person of the operator thereof. It shall be necessary for owners
of vehicles to have the sticker bearing the number provided for in this section
attached to such vehicles, or with respect to motorized pedacycles and
motorcycles having no windshield, carried on the person of the operator, when
such vehicles are principally garaged or registered within the village and the
vehicle is used upon the streets of the village.
The term "principally garaged" is defined as when a firm, corporation, any
other entity which is located, or individual who resides, within the village,
parks the vehicle within the village overnight or where the firm, corporation
or other entity or individual registers the vehicle with the secretary of state
to an address within the village and uses the same on the streets of the
village.
   B.   If a motor vehicle license sticker is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
thereof shall be issued by the village clerk to the person to whom such motor
vehicle license was originally issued. Application for such sticker duplicate
shall be made in writing by the person to whom the original was issued and
shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the applicant stating his name, age,
address, place and conditions under which such motor vehicle license sticker
was lost or destroyed, the amount of the license fee paid therefor by him, date
of payment, and if destroyed, the manner of its destruction. The applicant
shall pay to the village clerk a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for the issuance
of the duplicate license sticker. Such sticker so issued as a duplicate shall
be marked as such. (Ord. 11-04, 4-19-2011)
6-4-8: REMOVAL/TRANSFER OF STICKERS; TRANSFER OF VEHICLES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any sticker from any
motor vehicle and transfer the same to any other motor vehicle, or to sell or
transfer any motor vehicle without first removing and destroying the license
sticker.
   B.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, any person, firm, entity
or corporation who has properly paid for, and obtained, a license sticker for a
vehicle, and subsequently uses said vehicle as a trade in on another vehicle
may obtain a new sticker (for the remaining portion of the same license term)
for said newly obtained vehicle without paying any additional fee for said new
license sticker. An applicant under this subsection shall present a copy of the
sales contract showing the new vehicle and the existing vehicle listed as a
trade in to qualify hereunder. If said existing vehicle is not a part of the
same transaction as that of the purchase of the newly obtained vehicle, the
applicant may still apply for a new license sticker under this subsection as
long as proof of the sale of the existing vehicle and the purchase of the new
vehicle are both presented showing the purchase and sale of said vehicles
occurred within thirty (30) days of each other and the owner certifies that the
existing vehicle was, in fact, a trade in for the newly acquired vehicle. An
applicant under this subsection shall pay the village clerk the same fee as
proscribed by subsection
6-4-7B of this chapter for the issuance of a duplicate license sticker. (Ord.
16-14, 11-15-2016)
6-4-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations Of Sections
6-4-2 And
6-4-3 Of This Chapter: The violation claim described in a citation so to be
issued pursuant to the terms of such sections may be settled, compromised and
paid in the respective amounts set forth in the following schedule:
 
Violations occurring after June 30 but before August 1 $25.00
Violations occurring after July 31                     50.00
 
   (Ord. 13-02, 2-5-2013)
   B.   Violations Of All Other Sections Of This Chapter: The violation claim
described in a citation so to be issued pursuant to the terms of such sections
may be settled, compromised and paid in the respective amounts set forth in the
following schedule:
      1.   In the event that payment is made within seven (7) days from the
date of the citation: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   In the event that payment has not been made within seven (7) days
from the date of the citation: Seventy five dollars ($75.00). (Ord. 11-04, 4-
19-2011)
   C.   Failure To Pay: In the event that payment is not made within fourteen
(14) days of the date of the citation for violations specified in subsection A
or B of this section, the amount payable hereunder will be increased to the
amount of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00); and the matter turned over to a
collection agent, or a complaint may be filed in a court of competent
jurisdiction and served. Payment of any fine and costs shall be in such amounts
as may be established by a court of competent jurisdiction within the limits
prescribed by section
1-4-1 of this code or other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 16-03, 5-
17-2016)
CHAPTER 5
SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN THE COMMISSION OF CERTAIN
CRIMINAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Offenses Subject To Motor Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
6-5-3: Vehicle Seizure And Impoundment
6-5-4: Existing Regulations Not Abrogated
6-5-5: Waiver Of Administrative Fee
6-5-6: Notice; Towing Impoundment; Release
6-5-7: Hearings
6-5-8: Petition To Vacate Hearing Officer's Final Determination
6-5-9: Administrative Fee
6-5-10: Vehicle Possession
6-5-11: Judicial Review
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: The fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
imposed by the village pursuant to this chapter related to its administrative
and processing costs associated with the investigation, arrest and detention of
an offender arrested for a criminal offense listed in section
6-5-2 of this chapter, or the removal, impoundment, storage and release of the
motor vehicle operated, used, or in the physical control of the offender on any
public highway or roadway within the village during the commission of, or in
furtherance of, any criminal offense listed in section
6-5-2 of this chapter.
HEARING OFFICER: An attorney licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois
for a period in excess of three (3) years, appointed by the village to serve
and preside as the hearing officer for the village's administrative
adjudication hearing system.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled as defined by the Illinois
vehicle code 1 , except a vehicle which is propelled by electric power obtained
from overhead trolley wires, but not operated upon rails, vehicles moved solely
by human power, and motorized wheelchairs.
OFFENDER: Any person who is the registered owner of a motor vehicle, who is the
agent of the registered owner of a motor vehicle or who is in physical control
of a motor vehicle with the express or implied permission or consent of the
registered owner and who is arrested for the commission of an offense listed in
section
6-5-2 of this chapter, and was operating or using the motor vehicle during the
commission or in furtherance of any criminal offense listed in section
6-5-2 of this chapter.
REGISTERED OWNER: The record titleholder to a motor vehicle, as registered with
the secretary of state of the state of Illinois or any other applicable
governmental agency.
VILLAGE: The village of Wayne, Illinois. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-146.
6-5-2: OFFENSES SUBJECT TO MOTOR VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Any motor vehicle operated or used by an offender on any public highway or
roadway within the village during the commission of, or in furtherance of, any
of the following criminal offenses shall be subject to seizure and impoundment
by the village:
   A.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense for which a motor vehicle may be seized and
forfeited pursuant to section 36-1 of the criminal code of 1961; or
   B.   Driving under the influence of alcohol, another drug or drugs, an
intoxicating compound or compounds, or any combination thereof, in violation of
section 11-501 of the Illinois vehicle code; or
   C.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, a felony or in violation of the cannabis control act; or
   D.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit, an offense in violation of the Illinois controlled
substances act; or
   E.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit the unlawful use of a weapon 1 , the reckless discharge of a
firearm 2 , or the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition 3 ; or
   F.   Driving while a driver's license, permit, or privilege to operate a
motor vehicle is suspended or revoked pursuant to section 6-303 of the Illinois
vehicle code; except that vehicles shall not be subjected to seizure or
impoundment if the suspension is for an unpaid citation (parking or moving) or
due to failure to comply with emission testing; or
   G.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle while soliciting, possessing, or
attempting to solicit or possess cannabis or a controlled substance, as defined
by the cannabis control act or the Illinois controlled substances act; or
   H.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle with an expired driver's license,
in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois vehicle code, if the period of
expiration is greater than one year; or
   I.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit, in violation of section 6-101 of the Illinois
vehicle code, or operating a motor vehicle without ever having been issued a
driver's license or permit due to a person's age; or
   J.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle by a person against whom a warrant
has been issued by a circuit clerk in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated section 6-101, 6-303, or 11-501 of the Illinois
vehicle code; or
   K.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit theft and related offenses 4  or retail theft 5 ; or
   L.   Operation or use of a motor vehicle in the commission of, or in the
attempt to commit prostitution 6 , soliciting for a prostitute 7 , patronizing
a prostitute 8 , or patronizing a juvenile prostitute 9 . (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-
2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.
2 2. 720 ILCS 5/24-1.5.
3 3. 720 ILCS 5/24-3.1.
4 1. 720 ILCS 5/16.
5 2. 720 ILCS 5/16-25 et seq.
6 3. 720 ILCS 5/11-14.
7 4. 720 ILCS 5/11-14.3(a)(1).
8 5. 720 ILCS 5/11-18.
9 6. 720 ILCS 5/11-18.1.
6-5-3: VEHICLE SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
The registered owner of any motor vehicle impounded by the village pursuant to
this chapter shall be liable to the village for the payment of the
administrative fee as provided in this chapter in addition to any towing and
storage fees as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-4: EXISTING REGULATIONS NOT ABROGATED:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to and shall not
replace or otherwise abrogate any existing state or federal law or village
ordinance that relates to the seizure and/or impoundment of motor vehicles,
including a seizure pursuant to article 36 of the Illinois criminal code 1 .
Any administrative fee or cost provided herein shall be in addition to: 1) any
and all penalties and fees that may be assessed or imposed by a court for
violation of any criminal offense or local ordinance violation offense and 2)
any towing or storage fees, or both, charged by any towing company.
   B.   Any and all fees incurred for towing and/or storage of a motor vehicle
impounded under this chapter shall be those approved by the chief of police for
all towing companies authorized to tow for the village. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
 
Notes
1 7. 720 ILCS 5/36-1.
6-5-5: WAIVER OF ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
The administrative fee shall be waived if verifiable proof is presented to the
village that at the time the motor vehicle was impounded, the motor vehicle was
stolen. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-6: NOTICE; TOWING IMPOUNDMENT; RELEASE:
   A.   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor
vehicle is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter and the
police officer has arrested the offender for any of the criminal offenses set
forth in section
6-5-2 of this chapter, the police officer shall provide for the towing of the
motor vehicle to a facility authorized by the village.
   B.   Prior to or at the time the motor vehicle is towed, the police officer
shall notify or make a reasonable attempt to notify the registered owner,
lessee, or person identifying himself or herself as the owner or lessee of the
motor vehicle or any person(s) identifying himself/herself as the registered
owner of the motor vehicle, or any person who is found to be in physical
control of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged criminal offense: 1) of
the fact of the seizure and of the motor vehicle registered owner's or lessee's
right to request a preliminary motor vehicle impoundment hearing to be
conducted in accordance with subsection
6-5-7A of this chapter and a hearing pursuant to subsection
6-5-7B of this chapter; and 2) that the motor vehicle shall be impounded
pending the completion of the hearing(s) provided for in subsections
6-5-7A and/or B of this chapter, unless the owner of the motor vehicle or a
person on his/her behalf posts with the village a cash bond in the amount of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) and pays any and all towing and storage charges.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
arresting police officer may, prior to towing the motor vehicle, release the
motor vehicle if the offender was not the registered owner of the motor vehicle
and the registered owner or some other person legally authorized to possess the
motor vehicle arrives at the scene of the arrest prior to the actual removal or
towing of the motor vehicle and the registered owner or person lawfully
entitled to possession of the motor vehicle possesses a valid operator's
license, proof of ownership or registration, proof of liability insurance and
would not, as determined by the arresting police officer, indicate a lack of
ability to operate the motor vehicle in a safe manner, or who would otherwise,
by operating the motor vehicle, not be in violation of the Illinois vehicle
code.
   D.   If the registered owner of the motor vehicle subject to seizure and
impoundment is the offender, the arresting officer may, prior to the actual
removal or towing of the motor vehicle, release the motor vehicle to another
person present with the written consent of the registered owner, provided that
such other person possesses a valid operator's license, proof of liability
insurance and would not, as determined by the arresting police officer,
indicate a lack of ability to operate the motor vehicle in a safe manner or who
would otherwise, by operating the motor vehicle, not be in violation of the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-7: HEARINGS:
   A.   Preliminary Hearing: The registered owner or lessee of a motor vehicle
seized and impounded may contest the seizure and impoundment of the motor
vehicle by requesting a preliminary hearing. The registered owner must make a
request for a preliminary hearing within twenty four (24) hours of the seizure.
The request shall be deemed filed upon delivery to the chief of police care of
the village police department. The preliminary hearing request shall be in
writing and the chief of police or his designee shall conduct the preliminary
hearing within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of the request, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, or village holidays, in which case the preliminary hearing
shall be heard on the next business day after the request. All interested
parties shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the preliminary
hearing. The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is of the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. If, after
the hearing, the chief of police or his designee determines that there is
probable cause to believe that the motor vehicle is subject to seizure and
impoundment, he/she shall order the continued impoundment of the motor vehicle
as herein provided, unless the registered owner of the motor vehicle posts with
the village a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
pays any applicable towing and storage fees. If the chief of police or his/her
designee determines that there is no such probable cause to believe the motor
vehicle was used, operated or in the physical control of the offender during
the commission or attempted commission of any of the criminal offenses set
forth in section
6-5-2 of this chapter, then the motor vehicle shall be returned to the
registered owner and any bond posted shall be returned.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing To Contest Seizure; Hearing Procedures; Conduct Of
Hearing:
      1.   Within ten (10) days after a motor vehicle is seized and impounded,
the chief of police or his designee shall notify the registered owner, lessee
and lienholder of record of the motor vehicle of the seizure and impoundment of
the motor vehicle in writing either by personal service or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to the interested party's address as registered with the
secretary of state of the date, time, and location of the administrative
hearing to be conducted and the basis for the motor vehicle seizure. An initial
hearing shall be scheduled and convened within forty five (45) days after the
date of mailing of the notice of hearing. The registered owner, lessee and
lienholder of record of the motor vehicle may appear at the hearing and may
contest or elect not to contest the basis of the motor vehicle seizure and
impoundment.
      2.   If the registered owner, lessee and lienholder of record of the
motor vehicle or such among them appearing at the hearing elect not to contest
the basis for the seizure and a factual basis exists for the seizure and
impoundment of the motor vehicle, the hearing officer shall impose the
administrative fee. If the registered owner, lessee or lienholder of record of
the motor vehicle appearing at the hearing elects to contest the basis for the
seizure and impoundment of the motor vehicle, a hearing shall be held
immediately, unless continued by order of the hearing officer. Continuances
shall only be granted for good cause shown. All interested persons shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing and to present all
relevant evidence.
      3.   At any time prior to the hearing date, the hearing officer may, upon
written motion or written request by the registered owner, lessee or lienholder
of record of the motor vehicle or by the village, direct witnesses to appear
and give testimony at the hearing.
      4.   Subpoenas for the production of witnesses and records may be issued
upon request of either party.
      5.   The formal rules of evidence shall not apply at the hearing, and
hearsay evidence shall be admissible only if it is of the type commonly relied
upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs. An
arresting police officer's sworn report and copies of driving abstracts or
records issued by the Illinois secretary of state shall be admissible.
   C.   Determination Of Hearing: If, after the hearing, the hearing officer
determines by a preponderance of the evidence that there is probable cause to
believe that the motor vehicle was used or operated by an offender during the
commission or in furtherance of any criminal offense listed in section
6-5-2 of this chapter and that at the time of the impoundment the motor vehicle
was not stolen, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the registered
owner of the motor vehicle civilly liable to the village for the administrative
fee. The hearing officer shall order the motor vehicle to remain impounded
until the registered owner, lessee, lienholder of record of the motor vehicle
or someone on behalf of the registered owner pays the administrative fee to the
village and pays any and all fees to the towing entity or village for the
towing and storage of the motor vehicle, as the case may be. If, after proper
service of notice, the registered owner, lessee or lienholder of record of the
motor vehicle fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall conduct
the hearing in absentia. If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines
by a preponderance of the evidence that there is probable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle was used or operated by an offender during the commission or
in furtherance of any criminal offense listed in section
6-5-2 of this chapter, and that at the time of the impoundment, the motor
vehicle was not stolen, the hearing officer shall enter a default order finding
the registered owner of the motor vehicle civilly liable to the village for the
administrative fee. A copy of the default order shall be sent to the registered
owner of the motor vehicle via certified mail, return receipt requested, and
first class mail, postage prepaid.
If, after the hearing, the hearing officer finds that probable cause does not
exist to believe the motor vehicle was used during the commission of a criminal
offense as set forth in section
6-5-2 of this chapter, or that at the time of the impoundment the motor vehicle
was stolen, the hearing officer shall enter an order for the immediate return
of the motor vehicle and/or return of cash bond, if posted, to the owner
without assessing any administrative fee.
   D.   Record Of Proceedings: All hearings shall be recorded, and said
recording shall be the official record of the proceedings. All findings,
decisions and orders of the hearing officer shall be reduced to writing, signed
by the hearing officer and served upon all parties by first class mail, postage
prepaid or personal delivery, within seven (7) business days after the hearing.
Service of the findings, decisions and orders of the hearing officer shall be
complete upon the date of mailing. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-8: PETITION TO VACATE HEARING OFFICER'S FINAL DETERMINATION:
   A.   The registered owner of a motor vehicle impounded under this chapter
may file a petition to vacate a final determination of the hearing officer
imposing an administrative fee. The petition shall be filed with the hearing
officer within fourteen (14) days following:
      1.   The date of mailing of a default order to the registered owner of a
motor vehicle; or
      2.   The hearing officer's determination of liability for the
administrative fee, if the registered owner or lessee requested a hearing.
   B.   A petition to vacate a final determination of the hearing officer shall
include:
      1.   The name and address of the registered owner to which the hearing
officer's decision and any future notices are to be sent;
      2.   The registration number of the motor vehicle;
      3.   The specific grounds upon which the final determination is requested
to be vacated; and
      4.   Any supporting documentation relied upon by the petitioner.
   C.   The grounds of the petition to set aside a determination shall be
limited to the following:
      1.   The person owing the unpaid administrative fee was not the
registered owner or lessee of the motor vehicle on the date of the offense;
      2.   The administrative fee was paid; or
      3.   An excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a
hearing.
   D.   The hearing officer shall render a written decision within fourteen
(14) days of the receipt of the petition to vacate a final determination. Upon
rendering a decision upon a petition to vacate a final determination, the
hearing officer shall send a copy of the written decision to the petitioner by
first class United States mail, postage prepaid. If the petition to vacate a
final determination shows just cause, the hearing officer shall set aside the
liability determination and also send a copy of the hearing officer's
determination to the registered owner of the motor vehicle. After a final
determination of administrative fee liability has been set aside upon a showing
of just cause, the owner of record or lessee, as the proper case may be, shall
be provided with a hearing to determine the liability for the payment of the
administrative fee. The hearing officer's written decision shall specify the
time and date of and the location at which a hearing contesting the liability
for the payment of the administrative fee shall be held. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-9: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:
Any administrative fee imposed shall be a debt due and owing to the village.
All administrative fees shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the
village. If a cash bond has been posted, the bond shall be applied to the
administrative fee imposed. Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction,
any fine, penalty or administrative fee imposed under this chapter which
remains unpaid, in whole or in part, after the expiration of the deadline for
seeking judicial review under the administrative review law, may be enforced in
the same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, any motor vehicle
impounded shall continue to be impounded until the administrative fee is paid
to the village and any applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the
towing company or to the village, as the proper case may be. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-
2013)
6-5-10: VEHICLE POSSESSION:
Except as may otherwise be provided by law or by order of the hearing officer,
no registered owner, lessee, lienholder of record, or other person shall be
legally entitled to take possession of a seized and impounded motor vehicle
until the bond, administrative fee and/or towing and storage fees have been
paid. The foregoing notwithstanding, whenever a lienholder has commenced
foreclosure or repossession proceedings, possession of the motor vehicle shall
be given to that person if the lienholder of record agrees in writing to refund
to the village the amount of the net proceeds of any foreclosure sale, less any
amounts necessary to satisfy all other lienholders. If the motor vehicle is not
retrieved from the towing facility or storage facility within thirty five (35)
days after the hearing officer issues a written decision or if the
administrative fee and applicable towing and storage fees are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the expiration of time in which judicial review of the
hearing officer's determination may be sought, or if judicial review is taken,
within thirty (30) days after the hearing officer's determination is affirmed
by the court, whichever is applicable, the motor vehicle shall be deemed
abandoned and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of article II of
chapter 4 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 13-13, 7-2-2013)
6-5-11: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of final determinations of the hearing officer made under this
chapter shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the
administrative review act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/301 et seq. (Ord.
13-13, 7-2-2013)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption Of DuPage And Kane County Ordinances
7-1-2: Administration Of Ordinances
7-1-3: Prohibited Discharges
7-1-4: Penalty
7-1-1: ADOPTION OF DU PAGE AND KANE COUNTY ORDINANCES:
   A.   Adoption Of County Ordinances: For all property located within the
corporate limits of the Village and in DuPage and Kane Counties, the Village
hereby adopts, by reference, the following: (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988; amd. Ord.
88-06, 5-3-1988)
      1.   DuPage County: The provisions of "An Ordinance Pertaining to Public
Health Establishing Rules Regulating Water Supply Systems and Sewage Disposal
Systems", of the County of DuPage, State of Illinois, adopted and approved the
May 20, 1964, and all amendments thereto except as hereinafter modified by the
Village. (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988)
      2.   Kane County: The ordinances of Kane County relating to water supply
systems and sewage disposal systems of the County of Kane, adopted and approved
May 9, 1995, and all amendments thereto except as hereinafter modified by the
Village. (Ord. 88-06, 5-3-1988; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Copies On File: Three (3) copies of said ordinances are on file in the
office of the Village Clerk, and are kept available for public use, inspection
and examination. (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988; amd. Ord. 88-06, 5-3-1988)
7-1-2: ADMINISTRATION OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   Definition: The words "DuPage County Health District" and "Kane County
Health District", appearing in each of the Ordinances adopted in Section
7-1-1 above, are hereby stricken and deleted wherever they appear in said
ordinances, and the words "President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Wayne, Illinois" are substituted and inserted in lieu thereof.
   B.   Authority Of Village President And Board Of Trustees: The Village
President and Board of Trustees and the duly appointed officers of the Village
shall have the power and authority to administer and enforce these ordinances,
to make necessary inspections and to issue, revoke or suspend permits pursuant
thereto. (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988; amd. Ord. 88-06, 5-3-1988)
   C.   County Jurisdiction: Nothing herein shall affect any primary
jurisdiction of any county health department to administer and enforce their
ordinances and regulations pertaining to water supply and sewage disposal
systems. (1998 Code)
7-1-3: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful to discharge untreated sewage or the effluent from any
septic tank directly or indirectly into any stream, ditch, ground surface or
abandoned well or to allow the contents of any privy vault, septic tank or
seepage pit to emit offensive odors or become objectionable so as to be
dangerous or prejudicial to health. (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988; amd. Ord. 88-06, 5-
3-1988)
7-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provision of these Ordinances or with the minimum standards and regulations
of said DuPage and Kane County Ordinances incorporated herein by reference, or
who shall refuse to remedy a violation of such provisions shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 88-05, 5-3-1988; amd. Ord. 88-06, 5-3-1988; 1998
Code)
CHAPTER 2
STORM SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Connection To System
7-2-2: Village Officials' Approval Required
7-2-3: Fees
7-2-1: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful to make any connection to the Village-owned storm sewer
system without the prior written consent of the Village President and the Board
of Trustees. Consent for connection to said system may be obtained upon
application made in writing to the Village President and the Board of Trustees.
Forms for such application may be obtained from the Village Clerk. (Ord. 87-14,
12-1-1987)
7-2-2: VILLAGE OFFICIALS' APPROVAL REQUIRED:
No application for connection to the Village-owned storm sewer system will be
permitted unless and until the Village President and the Board of Trustees
receive the written recommendations of the Village Building Inspector, Zoning
Enforcement Officer and/or Village Engineer indicating that the connection
contemplated will not be harmful or overburden the storm sewer system. (Ord.
87-14, 12-1-1987)
7-2-3: FEES:
Connection fees shall be charged to applicants for storm sewer connection to
the Village-owned system and shall be in the amount of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per connection, together with additional requirements
concerning the Village Engineer's fees. (Ord. 87-14, 12-1-1987; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ROAD AND DRIVEWAY CULVERTS AND DRAINS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Enforcement Of Chapter
7-3-3: Responsibility Of Owners
7-3-4: Regulations Governing Culverts And Drains
7-3-5: Blocking Of Culverts, Ditches Or Drains Prohibited
7-3-6: Appeals, Administrative Review
7-3-7: Violations; Penalties
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise defined herein, all words or phrases used in this Chapter
shall have the meaning defined in the Village subdivision regulations or the
Wayne Building Ordinance as presently in force, or if not therein or herein
defined, shall have the meaning customarily ascribed to them 1 . (Ord. 92-03,
2-18-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See Titles 11 and 8, respectively, of this Code for subdivision and
  building regulations.
7-3-2: ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Enforcement Officer and/or
Building Inspector of the Village. The Director of the Building and Zoning
Department or his designee shall be responsible for directing any initial
notice of violation of this Chapter, as provided in Section
7-3-4 hereof. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
7-3-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS:
It shall be the responsibility of the legal or beneficial owner of any property
adjacent to any culvert or other drain located beneath the means of ingress or
egress to such property in the right of way of any public or private road to
ensure that such culverts or other drains are maintained in proper working
order. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-1992)
7-3-4: REGULATIONS GOVERNING CULVERTS AND DRAINS:
   A.   Installation Of Culverts In New Construction: Culverts, ditches and
drains shall be installed on all lots for which permits are issued for new
construction as provided by Village ordinances.
   B.   Culverts On Lots With Existing Structures: All legal or beneficial
owners of property with any ingress or egress route connecting such property
with any public or private road shall install, construct and maintain a culvert
or drain if the Village Engineer determines that the installation of a culvert
or drain beneath the point of ingress or egress is necessary or desirable to
promote the orderly flow of stormwater drainage along the road right of way, or
to prevent erosion. The Village Engineer shall set forth, in writing, the basis
for his determination.
   C.   Time For Compliance: Any person required to perform any act or refrain
from doing any act pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall have sixty
(60) days from the date of notification by the Village or its designee to
comply with the provisions of this Chapter, weather conditions permitting. The
Director of Public Works may grant reasonable extensions of the time limits
prescribed in this subsection, or may require immediate compliance, for good
cause shown. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
7-3-5: BLOCKING OF CULVERTS, DITCHES OR DRAINS PROHIBITED:
From and after the effective date hereof, no person shall suffer or permit any
culvert, drainage ditch or other drain located in the right of way of any
public or private road to be blocked, plugged or diverted in any way which
shall reduce, impede or prevent the flow of stormwater drainage through such
culvert, ditch or drain. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-1992)
7-3-6: APPEALS, ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved by a determination of the Village Engineer under Section
7-3-4 hereof may, within fourteen (14) days of such determination, file a
written appeal with the Village Clerk, who shall transmit the same to the
Village Board. The Village Board may hear the appeal or may in its discretion
appoint a hearing officer to make findings and recommendations to the Village
Board on the appeal. The Village Clerk shall notify all interested parties of
the date set for hearing on the appeal. The decision on the appeal by the
Village Board shall constitute a final administrative determination. (Ord. 92-
03, 2-18-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
7-3-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses
to comply with any provision of this Chapter within sixty (60) days after
written notice to do so from the Village shall, upon conviction, be fined as
set out in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-1992; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to any fine permitted or required to be
sought or imposed hereunder, the Village may seek injunctive relief to prevent
an actual or threatened violation of this Chapter, and may also seek mandatory
injunctive relief to require adherence to the terms of this Chapter, the
corporate authorities finding that the Village and its residents will be
irreparably harmed by the violation of this Chapter and that the imposition of
a fine alone is an inadequate remedy for such violation. (Ord. 92-03, 2-18-
1992)
CHAPTER 4
EQUESTRIAN TRAILS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Establishment Of Equestrian Trails
7-4-2: Prohibited Acts
7-4-3: The Woods Of Wayne Trails
7-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF EQUESTRIAN TRAILS:
The Wayne Area Conservancy Foundation, an Illinois not for profit corporation
and tax exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue
code, shall have the right, privilege and authority:
   A.   To establish and maintain equestrian trails over and upon all dedicated
equestrian easements and upon all equestrian easements to be dedicated in the
future;
   B.   To assess fees on those persons who use the trails for equestrian
activities, all of such fees to be used solely for the establishment and
maintenance of the equestrian trails. (Ord. 03-02, 1-21-2003)
7-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Blocking Or Obstructing Trails:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to block or obstruct ingress or
egress to the dedicated equestrian easements, or to refuse to comply with or
resist the enforcement of any of the provisions of this section. (Ord. 83-02,
2-14-1983)
      2.   In the event anyone shall block or obstruct ingress or egress to the
dedicated equestrian easements, the village shall take the appropriate action
to ensure that ingress and egress to all dedicated equestrian easements remain
open and unobstructed.
   B.   Motor Vehicles Prohibited: The use or operation of any motor vehicle on
any equestrian trail or easement, except for that use necessary in connection
with the development or maintenance of the easements and upon all equestrian
trail easements to be dedicated in the future, is prohibited. (Ord. 80-01, 3-
20-1980; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person that violates, disobeys, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 83-02, 2-14-1983; amd. 1998
Code)
7-4-3: THE WOODS OF WAYNE TRAILS:
   A.   Trails Closed: The equestrian trails depicted on the final plat of
subdivision for The Woods of Wayne along the north and west boundary lines of
said subdivision be and the same hereby are closed until further action of the
corporate authorities of the village.
   B.   Use Prohibited: No person shall suffer or permit any person, horse or
other animal, or vehicle, whether motorized or otherwise, to enter upon or use
any portion of the equestrian trails as shown on The Woods of Wayne final plat
of subdivision.
   C.   Signs Posted: The chief of police or the public works trustee is hereby
authorized to post appropriate signs on the equestrian trails in The Woods of
Wayne notifying all persons that said trails are closed by order of the
village. (Ord. 96-05, 6-7-1996)
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon
conviction thereof, be liable for a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
Multiple violations on any given day shall each count as a separate and
distinct offense. (Ord. 96-05, 6-7-1996; amd. Ord. 03-02, 1-21-2003)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION TRAFFIC 1
SECTION:
7-5-1: Bond And Permit Requirements
7-5-2: Construction Debris On Roads
7-5-3: Damages And Injunctive Relief
7-5-4: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 2 of this code regarding disposal of
  construction waste.
7-5-1: BOND AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Building Permit Holders: As a condition to the
issuance of any building permit for new structures or swimming pools requiring
grading, foundations, fill, new driveways or roadways within the village, the
permit holder or his agent shall post a cash bond in the amount of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with the village clerk, guaranteeing repair of
damages to the road surfaces, roadbeds, parkways and bridle paths of or on
public, semipublic and/or private roads located within the village, as may be
occasioned by the use, in connection with the construction on the property for
which the permit is being issued, of motor vehicles or equipment traveling upon
said roads, and further guaranteeing the expenses incurred in cleaning from
such roads any mud, debris or load spillage from such vehicles. (Ord. 05-04, 4-
5-2005)
   B.   Responsibility Of Contractors, Subcontractors, Land Developers And
Haulers Of Construction Materials:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle (including tractors)
which exceeds three (3) tons in gross weight and which is used in the
furtherance of construction activity including, but not limited to, the hauling
of goods, equipment or any kinds of materials, whether liquid or solid, which
are directly or indirectly related to construction activities, to enter upon
public, semipublic and/or private roads located within the village, where such
entry is prohibited by traffic regulatory signs, without first having a written
permit issued by the village clerk, after the applicant has received the
written approval of the village engineer, and upon written notice to the police
department of the village. The village clerk shall issue such permit upon the
posting of a bond in the minimum amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), or
such additional amount as the village engineer shall determine in writing is
sufficient to repair any damage caused by such motor vehicular traffic, taking
into consideration, among other factors, the weight of the motor vehicle or
vehicles, the number of trips or loads resulting or likely to result from the
construction activity, the likelihood of damage to the road, the existing
conditions of the road and such other factors or conditions as may reasonably
relate to the amount of potential damage to the road or the estimated cost of
repairing such damage 1 . The bond so posted shall be for the purpose of
guaranteeing repair of damages to the road surfaces, road bed, parkway drainage
ditches, culverts, storm sewers and bridle paths of such roads as may be
occasioned by the use of such vehicles over the roads traveled, and further
guaranteeing the expenses incurred in cleaning from such roads any mud, debris
or load spillage from such vehicles. (Ord. 88-08, 5-17-1988; amd. Ord. 93-08,
6-1-1993)
      2.   With or without the permit provided for in subsection B1 of this
section, it shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle weighing more than three
(3) tons gross, including the weight of the vehicle and its load, to drive up
onto, off of, or over the edge of any public, semipublic and/or private road
located within the village, without first protecting said edge of the road by
putting down solid planks or other suitable device to prevent said vehicles
from damaging the edge of said road. (Ord. 88-08, 5-17-1988)
      3.   The minimum permit fee for each round trip by a motor vehicle shall
be in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or in an amount sufficient to
pay all fees and expenses of the village engineer reasonably incurred in
determining the amount of the bond provided for in this subsection, whichever
shall be greater. In the event that the construction activity involves more
than five (5) round trips, the permit fee for the use of any road during such
construction activity shall be in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
plus the reasonable fees and expenses of the village engineer in determining
the amount of the bond as aforesaid. Any such bond shall be in cash, letter of
credit or other form of security acceptable to the village, and the village
shall be deemed to have a security interest in said bond (if in the form of
cash) until the construction activity which is the subject of the permit shall
be terminated and a final inspection has been made by the village engineer
releasing the bond.
      4.   If any portion of the bond provisions of this section are held or
determined to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction either on a
temporary or permanent basis, then, and in such event, the amount of the bond
provided for in this section shall be in the minimum amount of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) or thirty dollars ($30.00) per linear foot of street or
road involved, whichever amount shall be greater, unless the corporate
authorities, by resolution, approve a lower amount.
      5.   Appropriate traffic regulatory signs prohibiting entry to all
public, semipublic and/or private roads to vehicles in excess of three (3)
tons, as set forth in subsection B1 of this section, are hereby authorized to
be posted by the chief of police or by the police department, or department of
public works, except for such roads or streets as may lie within the exclusive
jurisdiction of another unit of government with respect to weight limits. (Ord.
93-08, 6-1-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-9 of this code.
7-5-2: CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS ON ROADS:
   A.   No motor vehicle shall be driven on any public, semipublic and/or
private road located within the village, unless such vehicle is configured and
loaded so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom.
   B.   No motor vehicle shall track or otherwise leave or drop mud or debris
from any construction site or site where work is in progress onto any public,
semipublic and/or private road located within the village. In addition to other
penalties contained herein, those responsible for tracking, leaving or dropping
mud or debris shall remove such mud or debris so as to at all times maintain a
safe condition on said road, but in any event, within eight (8) hours of such
tracking, leaving or dropping. (Ord. 88-08, 5-17-1988)
7-5-3: DAMAGES AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
Any person or building permit holder operating a motor vehicle whose weight is
in excess of that set forth in subsection
7-5-1B of this chapter, upon any public, semipublic and/or private road located
within the village, is liable for all damage which the said road, parkway,
drainage ditch, storm sewer, culvert or bridle path may sustain as a result of
any violation of this chapter. The village shall also have the right to draw
upon any bond posted pursuant to subsection
7-5-1B of this chapter upon a written certification by the village engineer to
the village clerk and the permit holder setting forth the amount of any
damages, costs or repairs necessitated or occasioned by reason of the
construction activity for which the permit was issued. In addition to any other
remedies provided to the village in this chapter, the village may also seek
injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to prevent
threatened or actual violations of this chapter, and to seek a fine for
violation of this chapter, and to that end the remedies provided in this
chapter are cumulative and not exclusive. (Ord. 93-08, 6-1-1993; amd. 1998
Code)
7-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter, or refuses to remedy a violation of any
of such provisions, shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than the maximum fine allowed in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day a violation is permitted to exist
or continue shall constitute a separate offense, and each trip upon any public
or private road subject to this chapter shall also be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 93-08, 6-1-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
EASEMENTS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Use
7-6-2: Restoration Of Easement
7-6-3: Penalty
7-6-1: USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon, block, occupy, obstruct,
impair, impede, hinder, damage, disturb or otherwise use in any manner or
fashion any easement held by the village without first obtaining the consent of
the village through the adoption of an ordinance or ordinances. (Ord. 03-10, 6-
3-2003)
7-6-2: RESTORATION OF EASEMENT:
In the event that anyone uses a village easement contrary to section
7-6-1 of this chapter or other applicable provision of this code, the village
shall take that action it deems appropriate to restore said easement to a
condition equal to that which existed prior to the undertaking of the aforesaid
unlawful action, with all resulting costs to be borne by the person(s) who
violated section
7-6-1 of this chapter or other applicable provisions of this code. (Ord. 03-10,
6-3-2003)
7-6-3: PENALTY:
Any person that violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 03-10, 6-3-2003)
CHAPTER 7
DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Prohibited
7-7-2: Penalty
7-7-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, remove, destroy, or in
any other way cause injury to property belonging to the village of Wayne
located in any alley, street, or other place unless authorized by the village
to do so. (Ord. 03-25, 11-18-2003)
7-7-2: PENALTY:
Should this chapter be violated, the following penalties or any combination
thereof may be applied: (Ord. 03-25, 11-18-2003)
   A.   A fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
   B.   Each act of violation, and each day upon which a violation occurs is a
separate offense;
   C.   The costs of prosecution;
   D.   The reasonable costs of repair and/or replacement of the property
damaged; and
   E.   Any other penalty as required or allowed by law. (Ord. 03-25, 11-18-
2003)
CHAPTER 8
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-8-1: Purpose And Scope
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Annual Registration Required
7-8-4: Permit Required; Application And Fees
7-8-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-8-6: Effect Of Permit
7-8-7: Revised Permit Drawings
7-8-8: Insurance
7-8-9: Indemnification
7-8-10: Security
7-8-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-8-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-8-13: General Construction Standards
7-8-14: Traffic Control
7-8-15: Location Of Facilities
7-8-16: Construction Methods And Materials
7-8-17: Vegetation Control
7-8-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-8-19: Cleanup And Restoration
7-8-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-8-21: Variances
7-8-22: Penalties
7-8-23: Enforcement
7-8-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   To prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   To prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and
other conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   To prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   To protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   To protect against increased storm water runoff due to structures
and materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   To preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities
are installed;
      7.   To preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the village's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   To prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   To assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Application: This chapter applies to all facilities on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way within the jurisdiction
of the village. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date of
this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the
utility as presently constructed and located, except as may be otherwise
provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities, on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The Wayne village code.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil; but shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The village engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
7-8-4 and
7-8-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility, equestrian or pedestrian easements, in which the
village has the right and authority to authorize, regulate or permit the
location of facilities other than those of the village. "Right of way" or
"rights of way" shall not include any real or personal village property that is
not specifically described in this definition and shall not include village
buildings, fixtures and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether
they are situated in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
7-8-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), as now or hereafter amended, or cable
or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to
the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 et seq.), as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Wayne, and DuPage and Kane Counties, Illinois.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 07-20, 10-
16-2007)
7-8-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the village clerk, providing the utility's name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of way and a twenty
four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance
as required in section
7-8-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 07-20,
10-16-2007)
7-8-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the village engineer and obtaining a permit from the
village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall
be required for installation and maintenance of service connections to
customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name, address, e-mail address and telephone and
telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of a licensed engineer that such drawings, plans,
and specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
7-8-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
7-8-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
7-8-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the village
engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does not
conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and
regulations, the village engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the village engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the village engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the village
engineer, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The village
engineer shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the facility
may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the village engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: a)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction, or
b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
7-8-4 of this chapter, the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village engineer with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
7-8-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverage And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident.
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits.
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village. Certificates of
insurance in a form acceptable to the village, noting the endorsements required
by this section, shall be submitted with the permit application required under
section
7-8-4 of this chapter as evidence of the insurance coverage required herein.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Clerk of such intent to cancel or not
to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus lines carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "VII" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-
2007)
7-8-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct, or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Provide a location convenient to the village and within the state of
Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village engineer
may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to post a single
amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the construction
under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased construction shall
be equal to the greatest amount that would have been required under the
provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts remaining in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-
2007)
7-8-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the village with evidence, reasonable and
satisfactory to the village, that no cause exists for the revocation or
suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection C.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation or suspension set forth within
subsection A of this section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem the subject
facilities and/or equipment abandoned and property of the village. The
permittee shall be liable in all events to the village for all costs of
removal. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage and bonds must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 07-20, 10-
16-2007)
7-8-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Illinois
administrative code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound
engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be final.
If requested, the village engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
7-8-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the village engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the village's
utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with, the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any aboveground
appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way
line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "Construction Of Electric Power And Communication Lines" (83
Illinois administrative code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 07-
20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
engineer from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or jacking shall be
excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of boring or jacking
operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after boring or jacking
operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be clearly marked and
protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected, supported, braced,
and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical and lateral loads
that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the village engineer.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the village engineer, the utility, at its expense, shall remove any
pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility, place and
properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement, sidewalk,
curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the village
engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
7-8-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the village engineer.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in-kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one-piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair,
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
   Type Of Facility                   Minimum Cover
Electric lines                        30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service 18 to 24 inches (0.6 m, as determined by
lines                                 village)
Gas or petroleum products             30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                            Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                      protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or       Sufficient cover to provide freeze
drainage line                         protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"Rules For Construction Of Electric Power And Communications Lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation, or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snowdrops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snowdrops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the village engineer. With the approval of the
village engineer, shrubbery or other plantings surrounding the appurtenance may
be used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Materials Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on
the right of way without the prior written approval of the village engineer.
When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or
other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other property. If
material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be obtained from
the village.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the village engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the village, the hours of construction
are those set forth in subsection
4-5-2G of this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 07-20,
10-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-8-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D2 of this section, no utility
shall spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or
vegetation in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth,
insects or disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the village engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the village shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice, the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the village engineer
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not direct the utility
that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to
the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the
alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by the village,
other utility or person. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the village engineer. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding, or
any other requirement to restore the right of way to a condition substantially
equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the project. The
time period provided in this section may be extended by the village engineer
for good cause shown. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
village engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the village police department shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the village engineer
as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision
of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a
variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The village engineer shall decide whether
a variance is to be authorized for each provision of this chapter identified in
the variance request, on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The village engineer may authorize
a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the village engineer may require the utility requesting
the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions that may or may not be
expressly contained within this chapter, but which carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the village
engineer under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to
the village board, or such other board or commission as it may designate. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the village clerk
within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement, decision or
determination. Applications for appeals shall set forth the basis or bases for
same in a reasonably complete fashion. If no appeal is filed within the thirty
(30) day period aforesaid, the right to appeal shall be deemed waived. The
village board shall commence its consideration of the appeal at the board's
next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least seven (7) days after the
filing of the appeal. The village board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord.
07-20, 10-16-2007)
7-8-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this code 1 . There may be times when the
village will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because
the utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment made by the village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
7-8-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-20, 10-16-2007)
CHAPTER 9
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-9-1: Purpose And Scope
7-9-2: Definitions
7-9-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
7-9-4: Dispute Resolution
7-9-5: Indemnification
7-9-6: Insurance
7-9-7: General Provisions
7-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (the Act).
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict. As to the subject matter hereof, this title is
hereby superseded as to any other conflicting sections thereof, but remains in
force for sections that do not conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider
within the meaning of the Act.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment types and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Application Prioritization: The first completed application shall
have priority over applications received by different applicants for
collocation on the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Poles Or Structures: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the
Village fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   Application Denial: The Village shall deny an application that
does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the Village's review period.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the Village for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the Village and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Certain Restrictions On Collocation: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of
an electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole. However, the
antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may be located in
the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the top of the
pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider complies with
applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance With Public Safety Requirements: The wireless provider
shall comply with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations
that concern public safety.
      6.   Compliance With Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for any required zoning entitlements in conformance with
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in this Code.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
      14.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
         a.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty
dollars ($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless
facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three
hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a
consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on
existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
         b.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
         c.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
         d.   The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit,
or require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
            (1)   Routine maintenance;
            (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless
facilities that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the
wireless provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the
planned replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement
of equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
            (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
         e.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
      15.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
         a.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
         b.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
         c.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-
7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public
commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of
the Public Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public
commuter rail service, or electric utility. The provisions of this section do
not apply to an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless
facilities if the facilities are being used, developed and maintained
consistent with the provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the
Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: 1) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or 2) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this section.
      16.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the Village
and wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless
facilities in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless
facilities on Village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain
in effect for all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018,
subject to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements
entered into after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this section.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under this section for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the Village
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
      17.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the Village
an annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: a) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year or b) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
      18.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Kane County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village's improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless
provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any
liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the
Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any
claims that they may have against the Village with respect to consequential,
incidental, or special damages, however caused, based on the theory of
liability. (Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
7-9-7: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Repealer: All ordinances or portions thereof in conflict with this
chapter are hereby repealed.
   B.   Severability: Should any provision of this chapter be declared invalid
by a court of competent jurisdiction; the remaining provisions will remain in
full force and effect the same as if the invalid provision had not been a part
of this chapter.
   C.   Effective Date: This chapter shall be in full force and effect on and
after its approval, passage and publication in pamphlet form as provided by
law. (Ord. 18-14, 7-17-2018)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Building Code
8-1-2: Residential Code
8-1-2-1: Pool Code
8-1-3: Mechanical Code
8-1-4: Electrical Code
8-1-5: Plumbing Code
8-1-6: Schedule Of Fees And Bonds Adopted
8-1-7: Commercial Building Construction Process
8-1-8: Penalty
8-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts a building code
for control of buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as amended of the
published international building code, 2024 Edition, are hereby referred to,
adopted and made part thereof, as if fully set out in this section, subject to
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes thereto as set forth in
subsection B of this section. At least three (3) copies of the international
building code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public
inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Amendments: Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of
the international building code are hereby revised as follows:
   Subsection [A] 101.1 Title (page 20, Name of Jurisdiction, insert in second
line)
      Insert: Village of Wayne.
   Subsection [A] 101.2 Scope, Exception (page 20, add to sixth line in
exception)
      Add: … as amended and adopted by the Village of Wayne.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.1 Gas (page 20, referenced codes, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: All installations of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas
appliances and related accessories shall conform to the fuel gas code.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.2 Mechanical (page 20, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: All installations, alterations, repairs and replacement of
mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or
appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air-conditioning and
refrigeration systems and other energy-related systems shall be in accordance
with the mechanical code.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.3 Plumbing (page 20, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: The design, installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects
of a medical gas system, shall conform to the plumbing code.
      A. New and replacement plumbing fixtures to be installed shall be labeled
as "Water Sense" product, as specified by USEPA.
      B. Air conditioning systems installed in new construction, remodeling or
equipment system replacement shall be closed system type.
      C. Lavatories for public use in new construction, remodeling or fixture
replacement shall be equipped with metering or self-closing faucets.
      D. Car wash equipment installations in new construction, remodeling or
equipment replacement shall be equipped with a water recycling system.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.4 Property Maintenance (page 20, referenced codes,
delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: The maintenance of existing structures and premises; equipment
and facilities; light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life and fire
safety hazards; responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants; and
occupancy of existing premises and structures shall conform to the property
maintenance code.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.5 Fire Prevention (page 20, referenced codes, add to
end of subsection)
      Add: The current provisions of the fire code where applicable.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.6 Energy (page 21, referenced codes, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: The design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency
shall conform to the energy conservation code.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.7 Existing buildings (Page 21, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert - formerly Section 3412)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and
relocation of existing buildings shall conform to the sections of the building
code and any other applicable village code and ordinance requirement for new
construction.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.8 Zoning (page 21, add new subsection)
      Add: Zoning - The restrictions of the Wayne zoning ordinance and all
amendments thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of this
code; and such restrictions shall be controlling except insofar as this code
imposes greater restrictions by reason of the type of construction used, in
which case the provisions of this code shall control.
   Subsection [A] 101.4.9 Legislative (page 21, add new subsection)
      Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this ordinance is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance. The village president and board of trustees hereby declare that they
would have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared invalid.
   Section [A] 103 Code Compliance Agency (page 21, delete section and insert)
      Delete: Entire section.
      Insert: The village building department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the building code, and the director of building and zoning shall
be known as the building official.
   Subsection [A] 105.1 Required (page 24, insert at end of subsection)
      Insert: Any person or entity, other than a holder of a franchise
agreement with the village for utilities, who intends to construct, install,
alter or repair any generation, transmission, distribution or metering or
related equipment or to otherwise engage in any land disturbing activity
("work"), shall first make application to the building official and obtain a
construction permit for such work unless the same is subject to a permit
otherwise required by this title.
      As used herein, "land disturbing activity" shall mean any activity or
practice, excavation or fill, alteration, removal of vegetation, or change in
land use undertaken by individuals or private or public entities that affects
the surface cover on the ground, or any man-made change to improved or
unimproved real estate, including but not limited to construction of new roads
or utilities; maintenance of underground utilities or pipelines; installation
of new overhead utilities; construction of new parking lots, trails or
pathways; and other mining, dredging or drilling activities. Agricultural
activities, including plowing, tilling, planting and harvesting crops,
planting/maintenance of native vegetation for conservation purposes, and
landscaping activities shall not be included in this definition of "land
disturbing activity".
   Subsection [A] 105.2 Work Exempt from Permits (pages 24 and 25, permits
section - Work Exempt from Permits, delete exemptions)
      Delete: All building permit exemptions, except where approved by the
director of building and zoning.
      Delete: All electrical permit exemptions, except where approved by the
director of building and zoning.
      Delete: All gas permit exemptions, except where approved by the director
of building and zoning.
      Delete: All mechanical permit exemptions, except where approved by the
director of building and zoning.
      Delete: All plumbing permit exemptions, except where approved by the
director of building and zoning.
   Subsection [A] 105.2.2 Public Service Agencies (page 25, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A permit shall not be required for the installation, alteration
or repair of generation, transmission, distribution or metering or other
related equipment that is under the ownership and control of persons or
entities holding a franchise agreement with the village for utilities.
   Subsection [A] 105.5 Permit Expiration (page 25, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection [A] 107.1 Construction Documents General (page 26, Construction
Documents, add to ninth line)
      Add: Unless otherwise specified by the director of building and zoning,
each application shall be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) sets of drawings
and specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to practice
architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a structural
engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by the
Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when it
is determined to be sufficient by the director of building and zoning. To
obtain a permit, the owner or his representative shall file an application on a
form furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a signed
statement indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all parts of the building
and the estimated construction cost thereof.
   Subsection [A] 110.3.12 Final Inspection (page 28, Final Occupancy
Inspection, add)
      Add: No building or part thereof, hereafter erected, or the structure of
which shall hereafter be altered or repaired and for which erection, alteration
or repair a permit shall be required as provided in sections 105 and 106 of
this building code, and no existing building in which the character of the
occupancy is to be changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until
a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the director of building
and zoning. Such certificate shall carry the certification of the director of
building and zoning that said building or part thereof conforms to the
requirements of this and any other applicable village ordinance, and that said
building, construction, alteration, or repair has been substantially completed
in accordance with the plans and specifications upon which the building permit
required by this ordinance was issued.
   Subsection [A] 111.1.1 Change in Use (page 29, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, add to subsection 111.1)
      Add: No building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued shall be used for a different classification or group occupancy until a
certificate of occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the
director of building and zoning; provided, however, that no certificate of
occupancy shall be issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the
building complies with the village zoning code. "Change of occupancy" is not
intended to mean change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to
occupy the building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification
into a different occupancy group.
   Subsection [A] 111.3 Temporary Occupancy (page 29, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, add to subsection)
      Add: A cash performance bond, or other method of surety acceptable to the
director of building and zoning, shall be posted in the amount of one hundred
and ten percent (110%) of the cost of the remaining work necessary for a
certificate of occupancy to be issued. Completion of the incomplete work and
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be secured prior to the
expiration date of the temporary occupancy. Failure to comply with this
occupancy requirement shall constitute a violation of this ordinance which
shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4-1 of the Wayne village code.
   Section [A] 113 Means of Appeals (page 30, Board of Appeals, delete section
and insert)
      Delete: Entire section.
      Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the director of building and zoning to the zoning board of
appeals. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in subsection
2-3-4 D of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection [A] 116.1 Unsafe Conditions (page 30, add to subsection)
      Add: If any building or other structure has become dangerous to life,
limb or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration,
or fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the
same unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the director of building and zoning, if and when he shall find
any such conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a
nuisance and shall condemn the same, and no person, firm or corporation shall
occupy, rent, lease or use such building or other structure with or without
compensation. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute
a misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by the
Wayne village code.
   Subsection [A] R116.1.1 Reconstruction or Removal (page 30, add to
subsection)
      Add: Rebuilding, restoration or removal must begin within five (5) days
of condemnation notice. Any building or other structure condemned and declared
to be a nuisance by the director of building and zoning under the provisions of
subsection 116.1 hereof shall be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be
demolished and removed. Within five (5) days after the service of notice in the
manner and form provided in subsections 116.3 and 116.4 hereof, to make such
building or other structure safe or sanitary or to remove and demolish the
same, the owner or owners or the party or parties interested therein shall
proceed to begin the work of making said building or other structure safe or
sanitary or the work of removing and demolishing the same and shall prosecute
said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a completion thereof;
provided, however, that should the owner or person in possession of said
building or structure deem himself aggrieved by any direction to repair or
remove such building or other structure alleged by the director of building and
zoning to be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after the
giving of the notice as required by subsection 116.3 and subsection 116.4
hereof, have the right to appeal in writing, from the decision of the director
of building and zoning to the zoning board of appeals, which board shall make
the investigation and report its findings to the village president and board of
trustees. If in the judgment of the village president and board of trustees
upon consideration of the report of the zoning board of appeals, said building
or other structure is unsafe or unsanitary and should be declared a nuisance,
they shall order the owner or other person in possession thereof to forthwith
begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of demolishing and removing said
building or other structure. After demolition of a structure, the premises
shall be maintained free from all unsafe and hazardous conditions. Removal of
all underground and in-ground structures is required. Restoration of
established grades is required to insure proper lot drainage in compliance with
village engineering regulations.
   Subsection [A] 116.3.1 Notice - Noncompliance with Notice of Unsafe
Buildings (page 30, add to subsection)
      Add: Upon the failure of the owners of said building or other structure,
or the party or parties interested therein, within five (5) days after the
service of the notice provided in subsection 116.3 hereof or upon the failure
to comply with an order of the village board as provided in subsection 116.1
hereof to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing and
demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such work
to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the
village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
structure, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the
same in a penal action before a court of competent jurisdiction for the
violation of the provisions of this ordinance. The village may also, in its
discretion, cause the structure to be secured to prevent access, cleaned of
unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public or removed in its entirety,
after the failure, within the time hereinabove provided for, to restore the
same to a safe condition.
   Subsection [A] 116.4 Method of Service (page 30 - 31, add to subsection)
      Add: Whenever the director of building and zoning shall under the
provision of subsection 116.1 hereof, condemn and declare any building or other
structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary condition
thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or
owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the holder or
holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any, ordering and
directing said building or other structure to be put in a safe or sanitary
condition or be demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be effected
by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail
directed to the person involved, at his last address known to the director of
building and zoning or available to him upon examination of the records of the
county treasurer and county clerk of DuPage or Kane County, Illinois, as the
case might be and by posting a copy thereof upon the premises subject to such
condemnation.
   Subsection [A] 116.5 Restoration or abatement (page 31, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Reconstruction to Conform to Requirements for New Structures If
Cost Exceeds 50% Of Value. A structure declared unsafe by duly constituted
authority may be restored to safe condition as provided in section 116.1
hereof; provided that if the damage or cost of reconstruction or restoration is
in excess of 50% of the value of the structure if reconstructed or restored, it
shall be made to conform, with respect to materials and type of construction,
to the requirements for new structures as provided for in this ordinance.
   Section [A] 117 Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria (page 31 - new
section insert)
      Insert:
      Ground Snow Load - 30 pounds per square foot.
      Wind Speed - See IBC code section 1609.
      Seismic Design Category - See IBC code section 1613.
      Damage From Weathering - Severe.
      Frost Line Depth - Forty-two (42) inches.
      Damage From Termites - Moderate to Heavy.
      Damage From Decay - Slight to Moderate.
      Winter Design Temperature - -4 degrees F.
      Ice Shield Underlayment Required - Yes.
      Flood Hazards - See current FIRM and FBFM maps.
      Air Freezing Index - 1700 cumulative degree days below 32 degrees F.
   Section 202 Definitions (page 33, [BG] Area, Building, change first
sentence; page 49, [BG] High-Rise Building, change height)
      [BG] Area, Building:
      Change: "The area included within the surrounding exterior walls…" to
"The gross area including surrounding exterior walls…" in the first sentence.
      [BG] High-Rise Building:
      Change: "75 feet (22 860mm) to 55 feet (16 764mm) above lowest level of
fire department access".
   Subsection 306.3 Low-Hazard Factory Industrial, Group F-2 (page 71, add to
end of subsection)
      Add: All factory industrial uses and occupancy classified as group F-
2 shall be classified as group F-1. Requirements of this ordinance and code for
factory industrial group F-1 shall apply to all factory industrial use and
occupancy.
   Section 310.4.1 Care facilities within a dwelling (page 79, delete)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
   Subsection 311.3 Low-Hazard Storage, Group S-2 (page 81, add to end of
subsection)
      Add: All storage uses and occupancy classified as group S-2 shall be
classified as group S-1. Requirements of this ordinance and code for storage
group S-1 shall apply to all storage use and occupancy.
   Subsection 403.1 High-Rise Buildings, Applicability (page 87, delete
applicability paragraph and insert new paragraph)
      Delete: Entire paragraph.
      Insert: The provisions of this section shall apply to buildings having
occupied floors located more than 55 feet (16,764 mm) or four or more stories
above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.
   Subsection 403.3 High-Rise Buildings, Automatic Sprinkler System (page 88,
delete exceptions)
      Delete: Exception.
   Subsection [F] 403.3.1 Number of Sprinkler Risers and System Design (page
90, add to end of subsection)
      Add: All sprinkler systems shall be on a two (2) source water supply as
approved by the building official and the local fire protection district having
jurisdiction. Shut-off valves and water flow indicating devices shall be
provided for each floor in compliance with fire protection district
specifications.
   Subsection [BE] 403.5.4 Smoke proof Enclosures (page 62, change height
requirements)
      Change: Floor surface height change from 75 feet (22,860 mm) above the
lowest level of fire department vehicle access to 55 feet (16,764 mm) shall be
a smoke proof enclosure pressurized stairway in accordance with section
909.20.4.
   Subsection [F] 404.3 Atriums - Automatic Sprinkler Protection, Exceptions
(page 90, delete exceptions)
      Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
   Subsection [BE] 405.7.2 Smoke proof Enclosure (page 92, change height
requirements)
      Change: serving floor levels from more than 30 feet (9,144 mm) below the
level of exit discharge to any exit below the level of exit discharge serving
such floor levels shall be a smoke proof enclosure and pressurized stairway in
accordance with section 909.20.4.
   Subsection 406.3.1 Motor-Vehicle-Related Occupancies, Classification (page
94, add to end of subsection)
      Add: All motor vehicle related occupancies are to be equipped with an
approved automatic sprinkler system and fire alarm system.
   Subsection 406.3.2.1 Dwelling Unit Separation (page 94, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Private attached garages shall be separated from all occupancies
by a U.L. listed two (2) hour rated fire-resistive ceiling assembly and wall
assembly. Any openings or penetrations through a rated assembly shall be made
in compliance with chapter 7.
   Subsection 406.3.3 Carports (page 94, add to end of subsection)
      Add: Garage and carport floor surfaces shall be improved with Portland
cement concrete, 3,500 psi, not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in thickness
over compacted crushed aggregate base not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in
thickness. Vapor barrier minimum 6 mil in thickness shall be installed where
living area exists above garage space. Slab reinforcement is required. Garage
floor surfaces attached to habitable areas shall be provided with a six (6)
inch (153 mm) concrete gas curb, above the floor surface, adjacent to the
habitable area portion of the building. If building foundation extends the
minimum six (6) inches above floor surface, it can serve as the gas curb.
   Subsection [F] 502.1 Address identification (page 133, change character
height line 4, add to end of subsection emergency identification system
numbering)
      Change: 4 inches (102 mm) to 6 inches (153mm)
      Add: All new buildings and structures, and all buildings or structures
which are remodeled, shall have all egress doors marked with an emergency
identification system in accordance with the Fire Protection District having
jurisdiction.
   Section 504/Table 504.3 and 504.4 Building Height and Number of Stories
(pages 134, 135 and 136 delete construction types)
      Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
   Section 506/Table 506.2 Building Area (pages 138, 139, 140 and 141 delete
construction types)
      Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
   Subsection 507.3 Non-Sprinklered, One Story Buildings (page 142, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
   Subsection 507.4 Sprinklered, One Story Buildings (page 142, delete
exceptions)
      Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
   Section 601/Table 601 Fire-Resistance Rating Requirements for Building
Elements (page 150 delete construction types)
      Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
   Subsection 602.3 Construction Classification Type III (page 151, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Delete entire subsection. Type III construction is not permitted.
Any reference to construction type III elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
   Subsection 602.4 Construction Classification Type IV (pages 151, 152 and
153, delete subsection)
      Delete: Delete entire subsection. Type IV construction is not permitted.
Any reference to construction type IV elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
   Subsection 602.5 Construction Classification Type V (page 153, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Type V construction is not permitted. Any
reference to construction type V elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
   Subsection 603.1 Allowable Materials (pages 154 and 155, delete or change
listed material applications)
      Change: Applications 1.1 and 1.2 - Fire-retardant-treated wood shall not
be permitted in any non-bearing partitions or non-bearing exterior walls.
      Change: Exception 14 - Blocking such as for handrails, millwork,
cabinets, and window and door frames shall be fire-retardant-treated lumber or
plywood.
   Subsection 708.1 General (pages 169, Fire Partitions, add to end of
subsection)
      Add: 9. Walls separating tenant spaces in the same building in all
occupancies.
   Subsection 708.3 Fire-Resistance Rating (page 169, change hour rating,
delete exceptions)
      Change: "Fire partitions shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less
than 2 hours. If an entire building is fully protected by a fire sprinkler
system, fire partitions shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 1
hour."
      Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
   Subsection 710.3 Smoke Partitions - Fire-Resistance Rating (page 171, change
rating requirement)
      Change: All smoke partitions shall have a minimum fire-resistance rating
of one (1) hour.
   Subsection 711.2.4.3 Horizontal Assemblies - Fire-Resistance Rating,
Dwelling Units and sleeping units (page 172, delete exception)
      Delete: Entire exception.
   Subsection 718.2.1 Fire-Blocking Materials (page 193, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Fire-blocking shall consist of 2-inch (51 mm) nominal lumber or
two thicknesses of 1-inch (25 mm) nominal lumber with broken lap joints, one
thickness of .625 (5/8) inch (15.8 mm) fire code gypsum board, or batts or
blankets of mineral wool, mineral fiber or other approved materials installed
in such a manner as to be securely retained in place.
   Subsection 718.2.1.2 Fire-Blocking - Un-Faced Fiberglass (page 193, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection (not permitted).
   Subsection 718.3.1 Draft-Stopping Materials (page 194, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Draft-stopping materials shall not be less than one thickness of
.625 (5/8) inch (15.8 mm) fire code gypsum board or other approved materials
adequately supported. The integrity of draft-stops shall be maintained.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 (page 265, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group A-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.1.2 Group A-2 (page 265, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group A-2 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 (page 265, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group A-3 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 (pages 265, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group A-4 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.1.5 Group A-5 (page 265 and 266, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group A-5 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.2 Group B (page 266, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
ambulatory care facility occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.3 Group E (page 266, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group E occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.4 Group F-1 (page 266, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group F-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.6 Group I (page 267, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group I occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.7 Group M (page 267, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group M occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.9 Group S-1 (page 267, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
group S-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages (page 267 and 268, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as repair garages in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA
13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of Tires (page 268, delete subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Buildings and structures utilized for the storage of tires shall
be equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
section 903.3.1.1 in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.2.10 Group S-2 Parking Garages (pages 268, delete entire
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection (all S-2 uses to comply with S-1).
   Subsection [F] 903.2.10.1 Commercial Parking Garages (page 268, delete and
insert at second line)
      Add: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with
the latest edition of NFPA 13
      Delete: Second line ... "where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet
(464 square meters)."
   Subsection [F] 903.2.11 Specific Building Areas and Hazards (page 268 and
269, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: In all occupancies an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be
installed for specific building design or hazards in all locations in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Section [F] 903.3 Installation Requirements (page 269, add to end of
section)
      Add: Fire sprinkler protection shall be provided at all exterior
balconies, decks and ground level patios of dwelling units and sleeping units
for all Use Group R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 buildings.
   Subsection [F] 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and Decks (page 270, delete conditions
1 and 2)
      Delete: Conditions 1. and 2.
   Subsection [F] 903.3.5.1 Domestic Services (page 271, add to end of
subsection)
      Add: Domestic water services and associated shut-off valves shall be
separate from the water supply for the automatic sprinkler system and shall be
separated on the outside of the building or structure being served with
separate identified exterior shut-off valves, unless otherwise approved by the
building official.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.1 Electronic Supervision (page 272, delete exceptions 2
and 3)
      Delete: Entire exception nos. 2 and 3.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.2 Monitoring (page 272, delete first paragraph of
subsection and insert new paragraph)
      Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
      Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly
different and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote
Supervisory Stations by an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which
manually or automatically retransmit trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm
signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications (Du-Comm) or other method of
notification as directed by the local Fire Protection District.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.3 Alarms (page 272, add to the end of subsection)
      Add: Provide an outside UL Listed weather tight visual device over the
fire department sprinkler bell and connection. This device shall be equipped
with a blue lens. The strobe shall activate and stop with water flow.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.3.1 Alarm Indicating Appliances (page 272, add new
subsection)
      Add: All sprinkled buildings shall be provided with fire alarm occupant
notification in accordance with section 907.5. Existing buildings shall be
required to bring any deficient areas up to code upon any building additions or
alterations excluding cosmetic only alterations, subject to Director of
Building and Zoning and Fire Code Official approval.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.3.2 Alarms Indicating Appliances (page 272, add new
subsection)
      Add: Fire sprinkler system inspector's valves shall be located most
remote from the riser and shall be accessible at all times and located no more
than 6 feet above the finished floor and remotely located. On multiple riser
systems test valves shall be marked as to which riser and area it tests.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.3.3 Valve Monitoring (page 272, add new subsection)
      Add: Installation in multiple story buildings; floor control valves with
water flow switches shall be provided for each floor.
   Subsection [F] 903.4.4 Automatic Sprinklers (page 272, add new subsection)
      Add: Where automatic sprinklers provide protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the fire district having authority may require
additional smoke detectors for a more rapid means to identify the location of
smoke or fire.
   Subsection [F] 903.6 Speculative Buildings (page 224, Automatic Sprinkler
Systems, insert new subsection)
      Insert: [F] 903.6 Speculative Buildings. Automatic sprinklers in
speculative buildings shall be hydraulically designed for the storage of class
IV commodities, as defined by NFPA 231, to the maximum available storage height
in the building. The maximum available storage height in a building is the
clear height dimension between the finished floor and the median point between
the bottom of the high and low points of the structural members supporting the
roof assembly. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance
with the latest edition of NFPA 13. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Subsection [F] 903.8 Hydraulic Calculations (page 272, add new subsection)
      Add: A minimum of 10% or 5 psi (whichever is greater) minimum safety
factor shall be provided in the fire protection system hydraulic calculations.
The system demand shall be 5 psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test
supply.
      Each hydraulically calculated area, on each drawing, shall be provided
with a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
   Subsection [F] 903.9 Fire Pump Test Ports (Page 272, add new subsection)
      Add: An OS&Y control valve shall be located on all fire pump test
headers. All fire pumps installations shall provide an outside test header.
   Subsection [F] 903.10 Fire Pump & Sprinkler Control Rooms (page 272, add new
subsection)
      Add: Provide an outside access door to the sprinkler riser valve room and
fire pump room. This room shall also be equipped with an interior access door
that swings in the direction of egress. Egress door(s) shall be equipped with
panic hardware.
   Subsection [F] 903.11 Fire Pump Room Rating (page 272, add section to read
as follows)
      Add: All fire pump rooms shall be a minimum 2-hour U.L. rated enclosure.
All fire pump rooms shall be provided with an approved doorway from the outside
and a door from the room to the interior of the structure. Impact protection
may be required where fire pump room walls are subject to damage.
   Subsection [F] 903.11.1 Fire Sprinkler Room Identification (Page 272, add
new subsection)
      Add: Fire sprinkler rooms located in new or existing multi-tenant
buildings shall be labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating
"Fire Sprinkler Control Room" and shall state the address range the system
protects.
   Subsection [F] 905.3 Standpipe Systems - Required Installations (page 275,
Required Installations, add to end of subsection, line 2)
      Add: The size of all standpipe fire department connections shall be two
and one-half inches (2-½") in diameter and shall be national standard thread.
Fire communication jacks shall be provided at all fire department standpipe
connection locations and shall be tied into the building communication system.
Siamese connections for standpipe and sprinkler systems shall be located no
further than ten feet (10') apart and shall be readily accessible. Public water
supplies, when used for the hydraulic design of sprinkler and standpipe
systems, shall be adjusted to ninety percent (90%) of the actual recorded test
results. At stairwells, hose connections are required at both sides of
stairwell doors, one connection inside the stairwell and one connection outside
the stairwell.
   Subsection [F] 905.3.1 Standpipe Systems - Height (page 275, Height, change
building height regulations on lines 3 and 5, and delete all exceptions)
      Change: "30 feet (9144 mm) above" to "15 feet (4572 mm) above" and change
"30 feet (9144 mm) below" to "15 feet (4572 mm) below".
      Delete: All exceptions.
   Subsection [F] 905.7 Cabinets (page 276, Standpipe Systems, add to end of
paragraph)
      Add: Cabinets as required shall be mounted on the floor side of stairwell
doors.
   Subsection [F] 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures (Page
280, add to end of second paragraph)
      Add: All fire alarm control panels shall be installed near the fire
department sprinkler risers with a fully functioning remote annunciator panel
located within 10 feet of the main entrance at a location approved by the fire
code official having jurisdiction. The remote annunciator panel shall be
capable of alarm silence and reset. Code access type fire alarm panels are not
permitted.
      Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Use Group M in
areas of the building that are normally accessible to the public where the
building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system and the
alarm notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow.
      Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory Stations by
an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which manually or automatically
retransmit trouble, supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public
Safety Communications (Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
      Exceptions:
      1.   Underground gate valves with roadway boxes.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.1 Group A (pages 280 and 281, delete first sentence of
subsection and insert, delete subsection)
      Delete: First sentence of subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group A occupancies.
      Delete: Exception 1.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.2 Group B (page 281, delete first sentence of
subsection and insert, delete exception)
      Delete: First sentence of subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group B occupancies.
   Delete: Exception.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.3 Group E (pages 281 and 282, delete subsection and
insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A fire alarm system in all group E occupancies shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.4 Group F (page 282, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group F occupancies.
      Delete: Exception.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.5 Group H (page 282, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group H occupancies. An automatic smoke detection system shall be installed
for highly toxic gases, organic peroxides and oxidizers in accordance with
Chapters 60, 62 and 63.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.6 Group I (page 282, delete first sentence of
subsection and insert)
      Delete: First sentence of subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group I occupancies.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.7 Group M (page 283, delete subsection and insert,
delete exceptions)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A fire alarm system in group M occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72. A manual fire alarm
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Use Group M occupancies.
      Delete: Exceptions.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.8 Group R-1 (page 283, delete subsection and insert,
delete exceptions)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A fire alarm system in Group R-1 occupancies shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72. A manual fire alarm
system that activates the occupant notification system in accordance with
Section 907.5 shall be installed in all Use Group R-1 occupancies.
      Delete: Exceptions.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.9 Group R-2 (pages 283 and 234, delete subsection and
insert, delete exceptions)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group R-2 occupancies.
      Delete: Exceptions.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.10 Group S (page 284, delete subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group R-2 occupancies.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.10.1 Public and Self-Storage Occupancies (page 284,
delete subsection and insert, delete exception)
      Delete: Entire subsection
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group S public and self-storage occupancies. Visible notification
appliances are not required within storage units.
      Delete: Exception.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.24 Group R-3 (page 287, insert new subsection)
      Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group R-3 occupancies.
   Subsection [F] 907.2.25 Group R-4 (page 287, insert new subsection)
       Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant
notification system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all
Use Group R-4 occupancies.
   Subsection [F] 907.6.2 Power Supply (page 290, add to subsection)
      Add: Secondary power shall provide a minimum of 60 hours of power supply.
All fire alarm one-way radio systems shall be equipped with 60 hours of battery
backup power.
   Subsection [F] 907.6.4.3 Zone Disconnects (page 290, insert new subsection)
      Insert: All fire alarm systems shall be capable of zoned disconnects at
the control panel. Disconnection of a zone shall cause the fire alarm system to
transmit a trouble signal.
   Subsection [F] 907.6.4.4 Multi Zone (page 290, insert new subsection)
      Insert: Multi-tenant buildings will be "ring by tenant" and shall include
weather tight clear outside strobe lights over the entrance to each tenant
space as directed by the Fire Code Official. All outside strobes shall provide
a minimum of 75 candelas.
   Subsection [F] 907.6.6 Monitoring (pages 290 and 291, delete part of
subsection and insert)
      Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
      Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly
different and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or remote
Supervisory Stations by an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which
manually or automatically retransmit trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm
signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications (Du-Comm) or other method of
notification as directed by the local Fire Protection District. Fire alarm and
detection systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 72.
   Subsection [F] 907.10 Private Wireless Radio Alarm Systems (page 291, insert
new subsection)
      Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly
different and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or remote
Supervisory Stations by an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which
manually or automatically retransmit trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm
signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications (Du-Comm) or other method of
notification as directed by the local Fire Protection District. Fire alarm and
detection systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 72.
   Subsection [F] 910.2 Smoke and Heat Vents - Where Required (page 299, add to
end of subsection paragraph, and delete exception)
      Add: Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with a mechanical
smoke exhaust system in all occupancies of groups A, B, E, F, H, I, M and S
having more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor area. Such
systems shall provide three to four air exchanges per hour. All key switches
shall be Knox Box style keyed to the fire protection district having
jurisdiction. Key switches shall be located in the building fire pump /
sprinkler riser room, or at the FACP. Mechanical smoke exhaust system shall be
manually operated only and are not permitted to be tied to the building fire
alarm system unless approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
      Delete: All exceptions.
   Subsection [F] 910.2.1 Smoke and Heat Vents - Where Required Groups F-1 And
S-1 (page 299, Smoke and Heat Vents - Where Required, delete entire subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Groups F and S. Buildings and portions thereof used as a group F,
H or S occupancy having more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in
floor area. Such systems shall provide three to four air exchanges per hour.
All key switches shall be Knox Box style keyed to the fire protection district
having jurisdiction.
   Subsection 1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and common path of egress
travel distance (page 312, add to fourth line of subsection)
      Add: Where shared truck dock facilities are provided in group B, S and F
in multiple tenant buildings, two exits or exit access doorways from the space
shall be provided. The length of common path of egress travel in occupancies in
Groups B, S and F shall not be more than 100 feet (30 480 mm) for common truck
docks which are provided and separated from other occupancies by 1-hour fire-
resistance rated assemblies, and that are entirely protected throughout with an
approved automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1.
   Subsection 1009.1 Accessible Means of Egress Required (page 316, add to end
of subsection and delete exception no. 1)
      Add: Accessible means of egress shall comply with the current version of
the Illinois accessibility code.
      Delete: Exception no. 1.
      Subsection 1010.1.2.1 Direction of Swing (page 320, change occupant load
in line 2)
      Change: "occupant load of 50 or more" to "occupant load of more than 10.
All exterior doors, doors accessing an exit enclosure, and all doors serving
group H occupancy shall swing in the direction of egress travel and be provided
with an approved automatic door closer. "
   Subsection 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches (page 322, delete numbers 3., 3.1,
3.2, and 3.3)
      Delete: Numbers 3., 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3.
   Subsection 1013.3 Illumination. (Page 334, delete and insert)
      Delete: First sentence.
      Insert: Exit signs shall be internally illuminated.
   Subsection 1015.4 Guards - Opening Limitations (page 337, add to end of
subsection)
      Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or
other ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
   Table 1020.2 Corridor Fire-Resistance Rating (page 342, change hour ratings
in table)
      Change: All occupancies without sprinkler systems are "not permitted" in
the third column in coordination with section [F] 903.2, which as amended by
this ordinance requires all buildings to be equipped throughout with an
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with section [F] 903.1.1 or [F]
903.3.1.2 where allowed.
      Change: All occupancies with sprinkler systems are to have 1-hour
corridor fire-resistance rating in the fourth column, with no reductions in
fire-resistance allowed. Exit corridors serving fire-resistance rated
stairwells shall have the same fire-resistance rating as the stairwell.
   Subsection 1023.12 Smoke-Proof Enclosures (page 345, add "and pressurized
stairway" in line 2)
      Add: "and pressurized stairway" in line 2 after smokeproof enclosures.
   Subsection 1102 Design (page 360, add to subsection)
      Add: Compliance with the current edition of the Illinois Accessibility
Code is required.
   Subsection 1301.1.1 Energy Efficiency - Criteria (page 387, delete
subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
title 8, chapter 7 of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 1807.1.3 Rubble Stone Foundation Walls (page 492, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Rubble stone foundation walls are not
permitted. Any other reference to rubble stone foundation walls in the building
code is hereby deleted.
   Subsection 1807.1.4 Permanent Wood Foundation Systems (page 493, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Permanent wood foundation systems are not
permitted. Any other reference to permanent wood foundation systems in the
building code is hereby deleted.
   Subsection 1807.1.5 Concrete and Masonry Foundation Walls (page 493, delete
reference to masonry foundations)
      Delete: Reference to masonry foundations. Masonry foundation walls are
not permitted. Any other reference to masonry foundation walls in the building
code is hereby deleted.
   Subsection 1809.9 Masonry-Unit Footings (pages 502 and 503, delete
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Masonry-unit footings are not permitted. Any
other reference to masonry-unit footings in the building code is hereby
deleted.
   Subsection 1809.12 Timber Footings (page 503, delete subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Timber footings are not permitted. Any other
reference to timber footings in the building code is hereby deleted.
   Subsection 2701.1 Electrical Scope (page 640, add to subsection)
      Add: The design and installation of electrical systems shall conform to
section 8-1-4 (Electrical Code) of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 2801.1 Mechanical Systems Scope (page 643, add to subsection)
      Add: The design and installation of mechanical systems shall conform to
title 8-1-3 (Mechanical Code) of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems (pages 644 through 651, delete chapter and
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
section
8-1-5  (Plumbing Code) of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 3001.3 Reference Standards (page 652, add to end of paragraph)
      Add: Elevator and conveying systems shall be in conformance with state of
Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulation act (225 ILCS 312/
140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator and
conveying systems shall comply with following standards and guidelines unless
updated:
      1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-
10) and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
      2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators, and moving walks
(ASME A17.2-2010).
      3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
      4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME
A18.1-2008).
      5.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
      6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
      7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2,
3 and 4, 2008.
   Subsection 3002.4 Elevator Car to Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher (page 653,
add to end of subsection)
      Add: In all buildings and structures serviced by an elevator, at least
one elevator shall be provided for fire department emergency access to all
floors. The minimum size of an elevator car shall be 54-inch by 82-inch (1371
mm by 2082 mm) and shall be equipped with a side-opening door, versus a center-
opening door, to accommodate the maneuvering of a 24-inch by 84-inch (610 mm by
2134 mm) ambulance stretcher in the horizontal open position.
   Subsection [F] 3003.4 Emergency Signal Devices and Lighting (page 653,
insert new subsection)
      Insert: 3003.4 Emergency Signal Devices and Lighting. New and existing
passenger elevator cars and freight elevator cars which are located in
buildings shall provide in the car the following emergency signal devices
operable from within the car in accordance with sections 211 and 204.7 of the
most current edition of ANSI A17.1:
      1.   An electric signal bell not less than six (6) inches in diameter
located inside the building and audible outside the elevator hoist-way. Only
one bell is required for a group or bank of elevators if operable from all cars
in the group or bank, with battery back-up power.
      2.   An emergency call button in each elevator car shall be connected to
the central telephone emergency exchange system of the fire protection district
having jurisdiction. Call buttons (red in color) are to be installed no more
than forty-eight (48) inches in height as measured to the highest operable part
that is essential to the basic operation of the call button.
      3.   All emergency lighting in elevator cars, hoist-ways and related
equipment rooms shall be equipped with a battery back-up system in compliance
with current village electrical code regulations.
   Subsection [F] 3003.5 Smoke Detectors (page 653, Elevators and Conveying
Systems, insert new subsection)
      Insert: 3003.5 Smoke Detectors. Smoke detectors shall be installed in
each elevator lobby at each floor, machine room and shaft/hoist-way in
accordance with NFPA 72E chapter 4. The activation of a smoke detector in any
elevator lobby, machine room or shaft/hoist-way other than at the designated
level shall cause all cars in all groups that serve that lobby to return non-
stop to the designated level.
   Subsection 3102.1 Membrane Structures - General (page 660, add to
subsection)
      Add: The installation of a membrane structure requires village building
permit.
   Subsection 3103.1 Temporary Structures - General (page 661, delete
subsection and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: The provisions of this section shall apply to structures erected
for a period of less than 180 days. Structures to be in place for more than 180
days shall be considered permanent structures. Tents and other membrane
structures shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Wayne village
code and any other applicable codes and ordinances of the village and the fire
protection district having jurisdiction. A village permit is required for any
installation.
   Section 3106 Marquees (page 665, delete section)
      Delete: Entire section. Marquees are not permitted.
   Section 3107 Signs (page 666, add to section)
      Add: The installation of signs shall conform to the current provisions of
the Wayne village code.
   Section 3109.1 Swimming Pool Enclosures and Safety Devices - General (page
666, add to section)
      Add: The installation of private and public swimming pools, swimming pool
enclosures and safety devices shall also conform to the current provisions of
section
8-1-2-1  and title 8, chapter 5 of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 32 Encroachments into The Public Right-Of-Way (page 672, delete
section)
      Delete: Entire section. Encroachments into the public right-of-way are
not permitted.
   Chapter 35 Referenced Standards (pages 700 through 703, insert NFPA
standards)
      Insert: All referenced NFPA standards shall refer to the most current
standards available.
   Chapter 36 Driveways and Off-Street Parking Areas (new chapter)
   Subsection 3601: Driveway/Off-Street Parking Area Permit. No person shall
hereafter alter, construct, build or establish any driveway or off-street
parking area without first obtaining a village permit.
   Subsection 3602: Application for Permit. Application for a permit for a
driveway and/or off-street parking area installation or improvement shall be
filed with the director of building and zoning and shall contain the name and
address of the person making the application and the name and address of the
owner of the property to be served by such driveway and/or off-street parking
installation or improvement, together with the proposed location and plans and
specifications for such work.
   Subsection 3603: Approval By Director Of Building And Zoning. No permit
shall be issued for any work to be done in any way about the construction of
any driveway or off-street parking area installation or improvement until the
plans and specifications have been submitted to and approved by the director of
building and zoning.
   C.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain property, buildings or
structures in the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of
this section.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day that a
violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate
offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such
other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this
section, including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
   D.   Effect of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-1-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts a one-and two-
family and multiple-family (townhouse) dwelling building code of the village
(hereinafter referred to as the "residential code") for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided. Each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as amended of the published
international residential code, 2024 Edition, are hereby referred to, adopted
and made a part thereof, as if fully set out in this section, except for
additions, insertions, deletions and changes thereto as set forth in subsection
B of this section. At least three (3) copies of the international residential
code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Amendments: Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of
the international residential code are hereby revised as follows:
   Subsection R101.1 Title (Page 26, Name of Jurisdiction, insert second line)
      Insert: Village of Wayne.
   Subsection R101.2 Scope (Page 26, addition to fourth line)
      Add: Attached dwelling units shall be vertically separated by a U.L.
listed three (3) hour rated fire resistive masonry wall assembly, in compliance
with subsections R302.2 and R302.3 as amended, with an STC rating of not less
than 50 with a separate means of egress.
   Subsection R101.4 Zoning (Page 26, new subsection)
      Add: Zoning - The restrictions of title 10 (Zoning Regulations) of the
Wayne village code and all amendments thereto, shall not be deemed to be
modified by any provision of this chapter; and such restrictions shall be
controlling except insofar as this chapter imposes greater restrictions by
reason of the type of construction used, in which case the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
   Subsection R101.5 Legislative (Page 26, new subsection)
      Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this chapter is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. The village board hereby declares that it would have adopted this
chapter, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase in this chapter,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses and phrases be declared invalid.
   Subsection R103.1 Code Compliance Agency (Page 27, Creation of Agency)
      Insert: Building department shall be charged with the enforcement of the
residential code, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as the
building official.
   Subsection R105.2 Work Exempt from Permits (Pages 29 and 30, building
section)
      Delete: Building permit exemptions 1 through 10.
   Subsection R105.5 Permit Expiration (Page 31)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by section 8-1-6 of the Wayne
village code.
   Subsection R106.1 Construction Documents (Page 31, Submittal Documents, add
to fifth line)
      Insert: Unless otherwise specified by the director of building and
zoning, each application shall be accompanied by a minimum of four (4) sets of
drawings and specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to
practice architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a
structural engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by
the Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when
it is determined to be sufficient by the director of building and zoning.
   To obtain a permit, the owner or his representative shall file an
application on a form furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall
include a signed statement indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all
parts of the building and the estimated construction cost thereof.
   Subsection R110.1.1 Final Occupancy Inspection (Page 33, Final Occupancy
Inspection, new subsection)
      Insert: Unlawful to Occupy Building Before Final Inspection. No building
or part thereof, hereafter erected, or the structure of which shall hereafter
be altered or repaired and for which erection, alteration or repair a permit
shall be required as provided in sections R105 and R106 of this chapter, and no
existing building in which the character of the occupancy is to be changed,
shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the director of building and zoning. Such certificate
shall carry the certification of the director of building and zoning that said
building or part thereof conforms to the requirements of this code and any
other applicable village ordinance; and that said building, construction,
alteration, or repair has been substantially completed in accordance with the
plans and specifications upon which the building permit required by this
chapter was issued.
   Subsection R110.2 Change in Use (Page 33, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, replace entire subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Certificate of Occupancy Required for Change in Use or Occupancy.
No building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued shall
be used for a different classification or group occupancy until a certificate
of occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the director of
building and zoning; provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy shall
be issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the building complies
with title 10 (Zoning) of the Wayne village code. "Change of occupancy" is not
intended to mean change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to
occupy the building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification
into a different occupancy group.
   Subsection R110.3 Temporary Occupancy (Page 34, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, addition to subsection)
      Insert: A cash performance bond, or other method of surety acceptable to
the director of building and zoning, shall be posted in the amount of one
hundred and ten percent (110%) of the cost of the remaining work necessary for
a certificate of occupancy to be issued. Completion of the incomplete work and
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be secured prior to the
expiration date of the temporary occupancy. Failure to comply with this
occupancy requirement shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of the Wayne village code.
   Section R112 Appeals (Page 34, Means of Appeals)
      Delete: Entire section.
      Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to
appeal a decision of the director of building and zoning to the zoning board of
appeals. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in section 2-3-4D
of the Wayne village code.
   Section R115 Building Condemnation (Page 35, Condemnation Order, new
subsection)
      Insert: R115.1 Existing Buildings Contrary to Code. If the director of
building and zoning finds that any building or other structure has become
dangerous to life, limb or property or to the public because of structural
defects, deterioration, or fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of
repair as to render the same unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human
habitation, it shall be deemed a nuisance, and the director of building and
zoning, if and when he shall find any such conditions exist, shall declare such
building or other structure a nuisance and shall condemn the same, and no
person, firm or corporation shall occupy, rent, lease or use such building or
other structure with or without compensation. The violations of the provisions
of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor, and any person, firm or
corporation found guilty of a violation thereof shall be subject to a fine in
the manner and amount as provided by section
1-4-1  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection R115.2 Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation (Page
35, Rebuilding Or Removal, new subsection)
      Insert: R115.2 Rebuilding or removal must begin within five (5) days of
condemnation notice. Any building or other structure condemned and declared to
be a nuisance by the director of building and zoning under the provisions of
subsection 115.1 of this chapter shall be put in a safe or sanitary condition
or be demolished and removed. Within five (5) days after the service of notice
in the manner and form provided in subsection 115.3 and 115.4 of this chapter,
to make such building or other structure safe or sanitary or to remove and
demolish the same, the owner or owners or the party or parties interested
therein shall proceed to begin the work of making said building or other
structure safe or sanitary or the work of removing and demolishing the same and
shall prosecute said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a
completion thereof; provided, however, that should the owner or person in
possession of said building or structure deem himself aggrieved by any
direction to repair or remove such building or other structure alleged by the
director of building and zoning to be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of
five (5) days after the giving of the notice as required by subsection 115.3
and subsection 115.4 in this chapter, have the right to appeal in writing, from
the judgement of the director of building and zoning to the zoning board of
appeals, which board shall make the investigation and report its findings to
the village president and board of trustees. If in the judgement of the village
president and board of trustees upon consideration of the report of the zoning
board of appeals, said building or other structure is unsafe or unsanitary and
should be declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in
possession of the building or other structure to begin the work of making safe
or sanitary or of demolishing and removing said building or other structure.
   Subsection R115.3 Notification of Unsafe Buildings (Page 35, Notice of
Unsafe Buildings, new subsection)
      Insert: R115.3 Director of Building and Zoning to Give Notice in Writing
on Unsafe Buildings - Method Of Service. Whenever the director of building and
zoning shall under the provision of subsection 115.1 in this chapter, condemn
and declare any building or other structure to be a nuisance because of
dangerous or unsanitary condition thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing
to be served upon the owner or owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if
any, and upon the holder or holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien
thereof, if any, ordering and directing said building or other structure to be
put in a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Service of
said written notice may be effected by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing
a copy thereof by registered mail directed to the person involved, at his last
address known to the director of building and zoning or available to him upon
examination of the property tax records of DuPage or Kane County, Illinois, and
by posting a copy upon the premises subject to such condemnation.
   Subsection R115.4 Noncompliance with Notification of Unsafe Buildings (Page
35, Noncompliance Procedures, new subsection)
      Insert: R115.4 Procedures Upon Failure to Comply After Notice. Upon the
failure of the owners of said building or other structure, or the party or
parties of interest, within five (5) days after the service of the notice
provided in subsection 115.3 hereof or upon the failure to comply with an order
of the village president and board of trustees as provided in subsection 115.2
of this chapter to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing and
demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties of interest after beginning such work to
proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the
village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
structure, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the
same in a penal action before the circuit court for violation of the provisions
of this chapter. The village may also, in its discretion, cause the said
structure to be secured to prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions
detrimental to the public or removed in its entirety, after the failure, within
the time herein above provided for, to restore the same to a safe condition.
   Subsection R115.5 Reconstruction (Page 35, Reconstruction Requirements, new
subsection)
      Insert: R115.5 Reconstruction to Conform to Requirements for New
Structures If Cost Exceeds 50% Of Value. A structure declared unsafe by the
director of building and zoning may be restored to safe condition as provided
in section 115.2 of this chapter; provided that if the damage or cost of
reconstruction or restoration is in excess of 50% of the value of the structure
if reconstructed or restored, it shall be made to conform, with respect to
materials and type of construction, to the requirements for new structures as
provided for in this chapter.
   Section R202 Definitions (Page 55, Townhouse, add to definition)
      Addition: Adjoining townhouse units shall be separated by a U.L. listed
three (3) hour rated fire-resistive masonry wall assembly with an STC rating of
not less than 50. Two-family dwellings (duplex) are considered the same as a
townhouse.
   Table R301.2 Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria (Page 32, Information,
insert)
      Ground Snow Load - 30 pounds per square foot.
      Wind Speed - 115 miles per hour.
      Special Wind Region - No
      Windborne Debris Zone - No
      Seismic Design Category - A.
      Damage From Weathering - Severe.
      Frost Line Depth - Forty-two (42) inches.
      Damage From Termites - Moderate to Heavy.
      Winter Design Temperature - -4 degrees F.
      Ice Barrier Underlayment Required - Yes.
      Flood Hazards - See current FIRM and FBFM maps.
      Air Freezing Index - 1700 cumulative degree days below 32 degrees F.
      Mean Annual Temperature - 49.4 degrees F.
   Subsection R302.1 Exterior Walls (Page 80, line 4 first paragraph)
      Add: All one (1) hour wall and projection ratings listed in table R302.1
(1) shall be changed to not less than three (3) hour fire-resistive rated with
exposure ratings from both sides, unless adjacent buildings are equipped
throughout with an automatic fire sprinkler system in compliance with NFPA 13D.
Three (3) hour walls are to be masonry construction only.
   Subsection R302.2 Townhouses (Page 82, change wall assembly within Items 1
and 2)
      Change: Item 1, line 3, 2-hour fire-resistance-rated masonry.
      Change: Item 2, line 3, 3-hour fire-resistance-rated masonry.
   Subsection R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings (Page 82, delete entire subsection
and insert)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Two-family dwelling units shall be separated and constructed to
meet the same requirements as a townhouse.
   Subsection R302.6 Dwelling Unit Garage Fire Separation (Page 84, Change in
Table R302.6 page 85)
      Change: ... 5/8-inch (15.9 mm) type "X" fire code gypsum board material
shall be required for all separations (Changed from ½-inch (12.7 mm) gypsum
board).
   Subsection R308.1 Site Address - Premises Identification (Page 98, add to
end of subsection)
      Add: Addresses are not permitted on garage doors. Address numbers on
mailboxes shall be installed on both sides of the mailbox.
   Section R309.2 One-and two-family dwellings Automatic Sprinkler Systems
(Page 98, amend section)
      Amend: Installation of sprinkler systems are voluntary.
   Subsection R317.1 Floor Surface (Page 102, change first sentence)
      Change: Garage floor surfaces shall be improved with portland cement
concrete, 3,500 psi, not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in thickness over
compacted crushed aggregate base not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in
thickness. Vapor barrier minimum 6 mil in thickness shall be installed where
living area exists above garage space. Garage floor surfaces attached to living
area shall be provided with a six (6) inch (153 mm) concrete gas curb, above
the floor surface, adjacent to the living area portion of the building. If
building foundation extends the minimum six (6) inches above floor surface, it
can serve as the gas curb.
   Subsection R317.2 Carports (Page 102, add after second sentence)
      Add: Carport floor and gas curb requirements and area requirements shall
be the same as amended requirements for garages in subsection R309.1.
   Subsection R319.4.4 Bars, Grills, Covers and Screens (Page 106, addition to
end of subsection)
      Add: Window well covers are to be able to support a minimum 250 pound
weight load.
   Subsection R321.1.3 Guard Opening Limitations (Page 108, add after first
sentence, second line)
      Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or
other ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
   Subsection R402.1 Wood Foundations (Page 121 and 122, delete entire
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
   Subsection R403.2 Footings for Wood Foundations (Page 133, delete entire
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
   Subsection R404.2 Wood Foundation Walls (Page 164, delete entire subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
   Subsection R405.2 Wood Foundations (Page 166, delete entire subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
   Subsection R405.3 Drainage System Discharge (Page 166, add new subsection)
      Add: The drainage system sump shall discharge to grade a minimum of three
(3) feet (914 mm) from the exterior wall of the building. Splash blocks shall
be required at all sump pump discharge lines. Splash blocks shall be
constructed of concrete or other material acceptable to the director of
building and zoning and be designed to carry water at least three (3) feet (914
mm) but not more than five (5) feet from the exterior wall of the building. It
shall be mandatory to carry the water flow away from the direction of the
adjacent side lot so that the water will not empty onto such property as it
flows from the sump pump discharge. If an underground drainage system is used
to carry downspout discharge water away from the building instead of using
splash blocks, there shall be an "air-gap" between the downspout discharge pipe
at the house prior to entering the downspout extension. The downspout drainage
system shall extend a minimum of ten (10) feet away from the foundation wall of
the building and shall terminate to the ground surface as far as possible, but
no less than twenty-five (25) feet away from the property line. Once ten (10)
feet beyond the foundation wall of the building, perforated pipe shall be used
to dissipate the flow of water. Drainage system downspout discharge shall be
dispersed so as not to saturate the ground or run off into adjacent properties,
and shall not accumulate on to public ways. Other methods to dissipate
downspout storm water may be considered with the approval of the Director of
Building and Zoning.
   Subsection R406.3 Damp Proofing for Wood Foundations (Page 166 and 167,
delete entire subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
   Subsection R408.8 Under-Floor Vapor Retarder, Finished Grade (Page 168
addition to subsection)
      Addition: Crawl space or under-floor surface shall be finished with an
approved vapor barrier minimum 6 mil thick (0.15 mm) under a slurry coat of
concrete, minimum two (2) inches (51 mm) in thickness.
   Subsection R504 Pressure Preservative Treated-Wood Floors, On Ground (Page
180, delete entire subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection. Wood basement floors and floors on ground not
permitted.
   Table R702.3.5 Minimum Thickness and Application of Gypsum Board (Page 395,
deletion)
      Delete: Use of any referenced single layer 3/8-inch (9 mm) drywall
installations - not permitted.
   Subsection R801.3 Roof Drainage (Page 427, delete entire subsection and
insert new subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Gutters shall be installed on all roofs with back edge not less
than one (1) inch (25.4 mm) higher than the front (outside) edge. All gutters
and downspouts shall be securely fastened to the building. Downspouts shall not
be connected to the sanitary or storm sewer. Splash blocks are required at the
bottom of downspouts and shall be construction of concrete or other material
acceptable to the director of building and zoning and shall be designed to
carry water at least five (5) feet (1523 mm) from the exterior wall of the
building. It shall be mandatory to carry the water flow away from the direction
of the adjacent side lot so that the water will not empty onto such property as
it flows from the downspout channel. If an underground drainage system is used
to carry downspout discharge water away from the building instead of using
splash blocks, there shall be an "air-gap" between the downspout discharge pipe
at the house prior to entering the downspout extension. The downspout drainage
system shall extend a minimum of ten (10) feet away from the foundation wall of
the building and shall terminate to the ground surface as far as possible, but
no less than twenty-five (25) feet away from the property line. Once ten (10)
feet beyond the foundation wall of the building, perforated pipe shall be used
to dissipate the flow of water. Drainage system downspout discharge shall be
dispersed so as not to saturate the ground or run off into adjacent properties,
and shall not accumulate on to public ways. Other methods to dissipate
downspout storm water may be considered with the approval of the Director of
Building and Zoning.
   Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency (Pages 500 through 576, delete entire chapter-
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and construction of buildings and associated systems
and equipment shall conform to the current provisions of the Village of Wayne
energy code title 8, chapter 7.
   Chapter 22 Special Piping and Storage Systems (Pages 616 and 617, delete
entire chapter - Fuel Oil Installations)
      Delete: Entire chapter. Installations not permitted.
   Chapter 25 Plumbing Administration (Pages 710 and 711, delete entire chapter
- insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 26 General Plumbing Requirements (Pages 712 through 715, delete
entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section 8-1-5 of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 27 Plumbing Fixtures (Pages 716 through 721, delete entire chapter-
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 28 Water Heaters (Pages 722 and 723, delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 29 Water Supply and Distribution (Pages 724 through 756, delete
entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage (Pages 757 through 770, delete entire chapter -
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section 8-1-5 of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 31 Vents (Pages 771 through 776, delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 32 Traps (Pages 777 and 778, delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
the current provisions of section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 34 General Requirements - Electrical (Pages 780 through 788, delete
entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 35 Electrical Definitions (Pages 789 through 794, delete entire
chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 36 Services (Pages 795 through 806, delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 37 Branch Circuit and Feeder Requirements (Pages 807 through 816,
delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 38 Wiring Methods (Pages 817 through 822, delete entire chapter -
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 39 Power and Lighting Distribution (Pages 823 through 859, delete
entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 40 Devices and Luminaires (Pages 860 through 867, delete entire
chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 41 Appliance Installation (Pages 868 through 870, delete entire
chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 42 Swimming Pools (Pages 871 through 882, delete entire chapter -
insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 43 Class 2 Remote Control, Signaling, And Power- Limited Circuits
(Pages 883 and 885, delete entire chapter - insert)
      Delete: Entire chapter.
      Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Chapter 45 Driveways (new chapter)
   Section R4501: Driveway Permit. No person shall hereafter alter, construct,
build or establish any driveway without first obtaining a village permit.
   Section R4502: Application for Permit. Application for a permit for a
driveway shall be filed with the director of building and zoning and shall
contain the name and address of the person making the application and the name
and address of the owner of the property to be served by such driveway,
together with the proposed location and plans and specifications for such
driveway.
   Section 4503: Approval by Director of Building and Zoning. No permit shall
be issued for any work to be done in any way about the construction of any
driveway until the plans and specifications therefore have been submitted to
and approved by the director of building and zoning.
   Chapter 46 Safety Fencing (new chapter)
   Section R4601: If required by the director of building and zoning for life
safety, residential construction projects are required to have a safety fence
of 48 inches to a maximum of 72 inches in height above grade around the entire
perimeter of the construction project area. Fencing must be installed prior to
commencement of construction.
   Chapter 47 Radon Gas Controls (new chapter)
   Section R4701: New dwelling unit construction shall be built in compliance
with radon gas controls as provided in Appendix [BE] of the International
Residential Code, 2024 edition, pages 941 through 949.
   Chapter 48 Temporary Storage (new chapter)
   Section R4801: Any type of temporary storage on residentially zoned property
requires Village of Wayne permit. Duration of storage is not to exceed thirty
(30) days. Extension of time may be considered and is at the discretion of the
Director of Building and Zoning based on approval of documented hardship.
   C.    Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain property, buildings or
structures in the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of
this section.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day
that a violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and
separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this section, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication
pursuant to Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees, and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed.
   D.   Effect of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-1-2-1: POOL CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts the
international swimming pool and spa code, 2024 Edition, for the control of
swimming pools, spas and hot tubs (hereinafter referred to as the "pool code")
as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms as amended of the published international swimming pool
and spa code, 2024 Edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
thereof, as if fully set out in this section, except for additions, insertions,
changes and deletions thereto as set forth in subsection B of this section. At
least three (3) copies of the international swimming pool and spa code are on
file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection at all
times during regular business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Amendments: Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of
the international swimming pool and spa code are hereby revised as follows:
   Subsection [A] 101.1 Title (page 10, insert at second line)
      Insert: the Village of Wayne.
   Subsection [A] 101.2 Scope (page 10, add to new subsection)
      Add: The restrictions of the village zoning ordinance regulations and all
amendments thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by the Wayne village
code; and such restrictions shall be controlling except in so far as this code
imposes greater restrictions by reason of life safety, in which case the
provisions of the Wayne village code shall control.
   Subsection [A] 103.1 Creation of Agency (page 11, change subsection)
      Change: The building department shall be charged with the enforcement of
the pool code, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as the
building official.
   Subsection [A] 107.1 Construction Documents (page 14, add to end of
subsection)
      Add: Construction Documents. Unless otherwise specified by the director
of building and zoning, each application shall be accompanied by a minimum of
three sets of drawings and specifications signed and sealed by an architect
licensed to practice architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural
act, or by a structural engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as
provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by the property owner of said
proposed swimming pool, spa or hot tub when it is determined to be sufficient
by the director of building and zoning. Construction document submittal shall
include aforementioned plans, dimensioned property plat of survey indicating
proposed installation, all proposed equipment manufacturer's specifications,
and a grading plan should the installation require excavation, filling, change
of grades or retaining wall installation acceptable to the village engineer.
   Subsection [A] 109.2 Fee Schedule (page 15, insert)
      Insert: The fee schedule shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code. No person shall commence construction or
installation of a permanent swimming pool, spa or hot tub without first having
obtained a permit. To obtain a permit, the property owner or his representative
shall file an application on a form furnished by the village for that purpose.
Application shall include such plans, property survey, specifications and
additional information as required for proper representation of the proposed
work, and to insure compliance with this code and all other applicable village
codes and ordinances. Fees associated with the construction or installation of
a swimming pool, spa or hot tub shall be assessed in accordance with section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code. No permit shall be required for a portable or
temporary pool as defined herein.
   Subsection [A] 111.4 Other Inspections (page 15, add to end of subsection)
      Add: Other Inspections. The director of building and zoning, or other
authorized representative, is hereby authorized and directed to periodically
inspect swimming pools, spas or hot tubs affected by this code to insure
compliance with the health, sanitation and safety requirements set forth
herein. If, after inspection, the director of building and zoning finds that
the installation, use, maintenance or operation of a swimming pool, spa or hot
tub does not meet the requirements and regulations imposed by the Wayne village
code, said installation shall be closed and drained until all violations have
been corrected. Inspections during the construction or installation of a
swimming pool, spa or hot tub shall be performed based on the type of
installation and as required by the conditions of the permit.
   Section [A] 112 Means of Appeals (page 16, delete entire section and add new
section)
      Delete entire section.
      Add: Means of Appeals. Any person, firm or corporation shall have the
right to appeal a decision of the director of building and zoning to the zoning
board of appeals. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in
subsection
2-3-4 D of the Wayne village code.
   Section [A] 115 Condemnation (page 17, add new section)
      Add: Condemnation. If any swimming pool, spa or hot tub has become
dangerous to life, limb or property or to the public because of structural
defects, deterioration, damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as
to render the same unsafe, it shall be deemed a nuisance, and the director of
building and zoning, if and when he shall find any such conditions exist, shall
declare such swimming pool, spa or hot tub a nuisance and shall condemn the
same. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided in
section
1-4-1  of the Wayne village code.
   Section [A] 116 Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation (page 17,
add new section)
      Add: Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation. Rebuilding or
removal must begin within five (5) days of condemnation notice. Any swimming
pool, spa or hot tub condemned and declared to be a nuisance by the director of
building and zoning under the provisions of section 109 hereof shall be put in
a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Within five (5) days
after the service of notice in the manner and form provided in section 111 and
112 hereof, to make such swimming pool, spa or hot tub safe or sanitary or to
remove and demolish the same, the owner or owners or the party or parties
interested therein shall proceed to begin the work of making said installation
or structure safe or sanitary or the work of demolishing and removing the same
and shall prosecute said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a
completion thereof; provided, however, that should the owner or person in
possession of said swimming pool, spa or hot tub deem himself aggrieved by any
direction to repair or remove such installation alleged by the director of
building and zoning to be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5)
days after the giving of the notice as required by section 111 and 112 hereof,
have the right to appeal in writing, from the judgment of the director of
building and zoning to the zoning board of appeals, which board shall make the
investigation and report its findings to the village president and board of
trustees. If in the judgment of the village president and board of trustees
upon consideration of the report of the zoning board of appeals, said swimming
pool, spa or hot tub is unsafe or unsanitary and should be declared a nuisance,
it shall order the owner or other person in possession thereof to forthwith
begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of demolishing and removing said
installation.
   Section [A] 117 Unsafe Swimming Pools, Spas or Hot Tubs - Method of Service
for Notice (page 17, add new section)
      Add: Unsafe Swimming Pools, Spas, Hot Tubs - Method of Service for
Notice. Whenever the director of building and zoning shall under the provision
of subsection section 109 hereof, condemn and declare any swimming pool, spa or
hot tub to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary condition thereof,
he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or owners, upon
the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the holder or holders of any
encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any, ordering and directing said
swimming pool, spa or hot tub to be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be
demolished and removed. Service of written notice may be effected by personal
delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail directed to
the person involved, at his last address known to the director of building and
zoning or available to him upon examination of the records of the county
treasurer and county clerk of DuPage or Kane County, Illinois, and by posting a
copy thereof upon the premises subject to such condemnation.
   Section [A] 118 Failure to Comply After Notice (page 17, add new section)
      Add: Failure to Comply After Notice. Upon the failure of the owners of
said swimming pool, spa or hot tub, or the party or parties interested therein,
within five (5) days after the service of the notice provided in section 111
hereof or upon the failure to comply with an order of the village board as
provided in section 110 hereof to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or
of removing and demolishing said installation, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such work
to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the
village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
installation, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of
the same in a penal action before the circuit court for the 18th judicial
circuit, DuPage County, Illinois for the violation of the provisions of this
ordinance. The village may also, in its discretion, cause the said installation
to be secured to prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental
to the public or removed in its entirety, after the failure, within the time
herein above provided for, to restore to a safe condition.
   Section 202 Definitions (page 20, Portable or Temporary Pool, add new
definition)
      Add: Portable or Temporary Pool. Any above-ground swimming or wading
pool, which may be removed and stored when not in use without dismantling or
disassembling, and which does not require electrical connections or filtering
and recirculating equipment. Use of a portable or temporary pool is restricted
to the residential property owner on the property it is located for the sole
use of his/her household and guests, and not for the purpose of profit or in
connection with any business operated for profit. All portable or temporary
pools are to be drained of all water and stored at the end of each day it is
used.
   Section 202 Definitions (page 20, Residential Swimming Pool, delete
definition and add a new definition)
      Insert: Residential Swimming Pool. Any container, receptacle, structure
or artificial basin for water having a depth at any point in excess of twelve
(12) inches in depth and which is used, or intended to be used, for swimming,
wading or recreational bathing. This includes in-ground, above-ground, on-
ground swimming pools, spas and hot tubs. It shall also include all equipment,
appliances, structures, facilities and other appurtenances incidental to, or
necessary and intended for, the use, operation and maintenance of a swimming
pool as defined herein. Use of a swimming pool is restricted to the residential
property owner on the property it is located for the sole use of his/her
household and guests, and not for the purpose of profit or in connection with
any business operated for profit.
   Subsection 302.1 Electrical (page 23, delete and insert new subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Electrical Requirements. All electrical equipment and
installations shall conform to the provisions set out in section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 302.2.1 Plumbing Requirements (page 23, add new subsection)
      Add: Plumbing Requirements. All plumbing equipment and installations
shall conform to the provisions set out in section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 302.2.2 Water Supply (page 23, add new subsection)
      Add: Water Supply. No fixed piping arrangements shall exist, which will
permit sewage or waste water to enter the pool water system, nor shall any
connection be permitted which could permit water from the pool system to enter
the household water supply. The water supply for a swimming pool, spa, hot tub,
portable or temporary pool shall meet the bacteriological standards of the
Illinois department of public health for safe drinking water.
   Subsection 302.6 Wastewater Discharge (page 23, delete and insert new
subsection)
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Discharge drainage from swimming pools, spas and hot tubs shall
not be permitted to drain so that any such drainage shall detrimentally affect
or constitute a nuisance or hazard to any adjoining properties. It shall be
mandatory to carry the water flow away from the direction of adjacent
properties so that the water will not empty onto such property as it flows from
the swimming pool, spa or hot tub discharge or drain outlet. No discharge or
drain outlet shall connect directly to any sewer line.
   Subsection 302.9 Mechanical Requirements (page 23, add new subsection)
      Add: Mechanical Requirements. All mechanical equipment and installations
shall conform to the provisions set out in section
8-1-3  of the Wayne village code.
   Section 327 Safety Requirements for Portable or Temporary Pools (page 40,
add new subsection)
      Add: Safety Requirements for Portable or Temporary Pools. Portable or
temporary pools are to be completely emptied of water at the end of each day's
use. Such pools are to be removed and stored when not in use. Such pools are to
be removed and stored when all of the adult (18 years old or older) residents
of the property on which the pool is located will not be in clear sight of the
pool or will be absent from the property.
   Section 328 Structural Stability and Construction Requirements (page 40, add
new section)
      Add: Structural Stability and Construction Requirements. All swimming
pools, spas, hot tubs, portable or temporary shall be constructed of an inert
and enduring material, nontoxic to humans. Pool sides shall be vertical and
non-climbable and shall be designed to withstand all anticipated loading for
the pool when filled with water and occupied by humans. All swimming pools,
spas, hot tubs and related equipment, structures or decks shall be installed
and constructed in compliance with all applicable construction provisions of
title 8 of the Wayne village code and other applicable village development
codes and ordinances. All vegetation shall be removed from the area directly
beneath a permanent swimming pool, spa or hot tub.
   Section 329 Placement and Location of Pools and Equipment (page 40, add new
section)
      Add: Placement and Location of Pools, Spas, Hot Tubs, Portable or
Temporary Pools, and Pool Equipment.
   A.   Location of swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, portable or temporary
pools, as measured from the outermost edges of the proposed installation(s),
shall be limited to property located within residential zoning districts, and
shall be further restricted as follows:
      (1.) Only located in rear yards.
      (2.) Not less than the applicable zoning district setbacks for accessory
use structures from side and rear property lines, as indicated in the zoning
regulations.
      (3.) Not less than ten (10) feet away from the principal building,
detached accessory building or structure, porch or balcony (as measured from
eaves or edge of structures to the proposed installation).
      (4.) No installation shall be permitted over any easements.
   B.   Location of pumps, filters, heaters and water disinfecting equipment
shall be limited and restricted as follows:
      (1.) Only located in rear yards and permitted areas for pools, spas and
hot tubs.
      (2.) Not less than the applicable zoning district setbacks for accessory
use structures from side and rear property lines, as indicated in the zoning
regulations.
      (3.) Located so as not to constitute a hazard to children. Such items and
equipment shall not be situated so as to provide or allow entry into a swimming
pool, spa or hot tub.
   C.    Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use/maintain a swimming pool, spa, hot tub,
portable or temporary pool, or pool equipment in the Village of Wayne in
violation of the terms and provisions of this section.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day
that a violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and
separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this section,including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication
pursuant to Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed.
   D.   Effect of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-1-3: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts a mechanical
code (hereinafter referred to as the "mechanical code") for the control of
buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as amended of the
published international mechanical code, 2024 Edition, are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part thereof as if fully set out in this section, except for
the additions, insertions, changes and deletions thereto as set forth in
subsection B of this section. At least three (3) copies of the international
mechanical code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public
inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Amendments: Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of
the international mechanical code are hereby revised as follows:
   Subsection [A]101.1 (page 11, Title, second line).
      Insert: The Village of Wayne.
   Subsection [A]103.1 (page 12, Creation of Agency).
      Change: The building department shall be charged with the enforcement of
the mechanical code, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as
the code official.
   New Subsection [A]105.3.3 (page 15, Mechanical Contractor Requirements).
      Add: All mechanical work requires a village permit subject to the
requirements of the village permit regulations and schedule of fees and bonds
in section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code and shall be performed by a licensed
mechanical contractor. A photocopy of the mechanical contractor's license and
certificate of insurance must be submitted to the director of building and
zoning prior to permit issuance. Any mechanical work, for which a permit is
required, performed on Village of Wayne property or right-of-way requires that
the Village of Wayne be listed as an additional insured on the certificate of
insurance and that the mechanical contractor submit an executed permittee
indemnity signature page with the permit application. Prior to the issuance of
a mechanical permit, a bond in the minimum amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), except where work to be performed exceeds the minimum bond amount
the bond shall be for the actual cost of work to be performed, shall be
executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in the state of
Illinois as surety on the bond with the applicant as principal on the bond, and
the Village of Wayne as obligee, for its benefit, and at the discretion of the
Village of Wayne, that of consumers dealing with the applicant, conditioned
that the applicant shall faithfully perform the duties without damage to
surrounding private or public properties and in all things comply with Village
of Wayne codes and ordinances pertaining to the applied for permit. The bond
shall remain until the issuance of final inspection approval and/or final
certificate of occupancy.
   Subsection [A]105.4.3 (page 16, Permit Expiration).
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by section 8-1-6 of the Wayne
village code.
   Subsection [A]105.4.4 (page 16, Permit Extensions).
      Delete: Entire subsection.
      Insert: Permit extensions shall be governed by section 8-1-6 of the Wayne
village code.
   Subsection [A]108.2 (page 17, Fee Schedule, third line).
      Insert: The fee schedule shall be governed by section 8-1-6 of the Wayne
village code.
   Subsection [A]108.6 (page 17, Fee Refunds).
      Delete: Entire subsection.
   Section [A] 113 (page 19, Board of Appeals entire appeals section).
      Delete: Entire section.
      Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code
official to the zoning board of appeals. Means of appeal shall follow
requirements set forth in section
2-3-4 D of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection [A]114.4 (page 19, Violation Penalties).
      Delete: Entire subsection.
   Subsection 301.10 (page 33, Electrical, second line).
      Delete: NFPA 70.
      Insert: Section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 301.11 (page 33, Plumbing Connections, second line).
      Delete: International plumbing code.
      Insert: Section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
   Subsection 506.1 (page 64, Commercial Kitchen Hood Ventilation System Ducts
and Exhaust Equipment, add to end of first sentence second line).
      Add: ...shall comply with the requirements of this section (add) except
current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for ventilation
control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations regulations shall
be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this code for all
installations.
   Subsection 506.3.2.1 Duct joint types (page 64, delete "butt joints" first
line)
      Delete: "butt joints" from first line.
   Subsection 507.1 (page 69, Commercial Kitchen Hoods, end of first sentence
first line).
      Add: ...shall comply with the requirements of this section (add) except
current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for ventilation
control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations regulations shall
be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this code for all
installations.
   Subsection 508.1 (page 73, Commercial Kitchen Makeup Air, add to end of
paragraph after end of seventh line, new sentence).
      Add: The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for
ventilation control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations
regulations shall be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this
code for all installations.
   C.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use/maintain mechanical systems in any
building or structure in the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and
provisions of this section.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day
that a violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and
separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this section, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication
pursuant to Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed.
   D.   Effect of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-1-4: ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts an electrical
code for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as
amended of the published NFPA national electrical code, 2023 Edition (the
"national electrical code") are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
thereof as if fully set out in this section, except for the additions,
insertions, changes and deletions thereto as set forth in subsection B of this
section. At least three (3) copies of the national electrical code are on file
with the village clerk and are available for public inspection at all times
during regular business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Amendments: Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of
the national electrical code are as follows:
   Article 90-10 Electrical Contractor Requirement (page 70-26, add new article
section).
      Add: All electrical work requires a village permit subject to the
requirements of section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code and shall be performed by a licensed
electrical contractor. A photocopy of the electrical contractor's license and
certificate of insurance must be submitted to the director of building and
zoning prior to permit issuance. Only electrical licenses obtained through
competency testing will be accepted. Any electrical work, for which a permit is
required, performed on Village of Wayne property or right-of-way requires the
Village of Wayne to be listed as an additional insured on the certificate of
insurance and that the electrical contractor submit an executed permittee
indemnity signature page with the permit application.
      Prior to the issuance of an electrical permit, a bond in the minimum
amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), except where work to be performed
exceeds the minimum bond amount the bond shall be for the actual cost of work
to be performed, shall be executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state of Illinois as surety on the bond with the applicant as
principal on the bond, and the Village of Wayne as obligee, for its benefit,
and at the discretion of the Village of Wayne, that of consumers dealing with
the applicant, conditioned that the applicant shall faithfully perform the
duties without damage to surrounding private or public properties and in all
things comply with Village of Wayne codes and ordinances pertaining to the
applied for permit. The bond shall remain until the issuance of final
inspection approval and/or final certificate of occupancy.
   Article 100-I Definitions - General - Authority Having Jurisdiction (page
70-28, line 4 addition).
      Add: The building department shall be charged with the enforcement of the
electrical code, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as the
code official, authority having jurisdiction.
   Article 210-8 Ground Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection for Personnel
(page 70-82, addition).
      Add: (G) Building department inspector reserves the right to require
ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection where a potential hazard may exist.
   Article 320 Armored Cable Type AC (pages 70-220 and 221, delete article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 326 Integrated Gas Spacer Cable Type IGS (pages 70-224, delete
article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 330 Metal-Clad Cable Type MC (pages 70-224 through 70-226, delete
article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 332 Mineral-Insulated, Metal-Sheathed Cable Type MI (pages 70-226
and 70-227, delete article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable Types NM, NMC And NMS (pages 70-227
through 70-229, delete article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 340 Underground Feeder and Branch-Circuit Cable Type UF. Section II
Installation, 340.10(4) installed as nonmetallic-sheathed cable (pages 70-233
and 70-234, delete subsection).
      Delete: Entire subsection. Installation as nonmetallic-sheathed cable not
permitted.
   Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing Type ENT (pages 70-250 and 70-251,
delete article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 394 Concealed Knob-And-Tube Wiring (pages 70-276, delete article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 398 Open Wiring on Insulators (pages 70-278 and 70-279, delete
article).
      Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
   Article 410, Part II, 410.10 Luminaires In Specific Locations, (A) Wet and
Damp Locations (page 70-311, seventh line, addition).
      Add: Installation of outdoor luminaires (fixtures) on the exterior of a
property shall be installed so as to not cause glare or excessive amounts of
light onto neighboring property or onto public property/right-of-way, thereby
creating a public nuisance or hazard, as determined by the director of building
and zoning.
   C.    Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use/maintain electrical systems in any
building or structure in the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and
provisions of this section.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day
that a violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and
separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this section, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication
pursuant to Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed.
   D.   Effect of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-1-5: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   Adopted: The plumbing code of the village of Wayne (hereinafter
referred to as the "plumbing code") shall hereafter be identical with the
provisions of that publication entitled Illinois plumbing code, 2014 edition
and which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth. At least
three (3) copies of the Illinois plumbing code are on file with the village
clerk and are available for public inspection at all times during regular
business hours as provided by law.
   B.   Violation; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to design, install, construct, reconstruct,
alter, use or maintain plumbing systems in any building or structure, or on
property in the village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of
this section. A village of Wayne building permit is required for all plumbing
work to be performed, subject to all applicable village permit fees. All
plumbing work shall be installed by an Illinois licensed plumbing contractor. A
photocopy of the plumbing contractor's license and letter of intent shall be
submitted to the director of building and zoning prior to permit issuance.
      2.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions
of this section shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a
penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day that a
violation of this section occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate
offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such
other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this
section, including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
   C.   Effect Of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to
or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the director of building and zoning
determines that any provisions of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016)
8-1-6: SCHEDULE OF FEES AND BONDS ADOPTED:
The schedule of fees, nonrefundable deposits, bonds and penalties to be charged
in connection with the administration and enforcement of the village building
ordinances, subdivision codes and other related bonds is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if fully set forth. Such schedule may be
revised from time to time by motion passed by the board of trustees and
approved by the village president, provided such revisions are recorded in the
minutes of the meeting at which such motion is passed. Copies of said schedule
shall be placed on file with the village clerk and the director of building and
zoning and shall be available for public inspection at all times during regular
business hours, as provided by law. (Ord. 02-05, 5-7-2002)
Plan review and permit fees may be waived by the village board, upon
application by a church, religious corporation, or charitable organization in
conjunction with issuance of such a permit; provided that refundable bonds as
required by subsection K of this section, or deposits for reimbursement of
certain village expenses and professional fees as required by section
1-7-2 of this code, may not be waived by the village board. For purposes of
this provision, the term "charitable organization" shall mean and include a
type of nonprofit organization whose activities center on human welfare and
advancement as manifested by donations of money, property or work to needy
persons. (Ord. 15-11A, 9-15-2015)
Said fees, nonrefundable deposits, bonds and penalties for plan reviews,
permits, inspections and technical/professional services are hereby classified
as follows:
A. Plan Review Fees:
1. A fee for the review of all plans shall be charged as indicated in the
aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds. Said plan review fee shall be paid
at time of submission of plans for review; said fee shall be nonrefundable and
is a fee separate from permit, inspection and engineering provision fees.
2. The plan review fee for residential construction (new remodel) shall be
charged as indicated in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds.
3. The plan review fee for commercial construction (new remodel for assembly,
business, mercantile, educational, institutional, storage mixed occupancies and
industrial) shall be charged as indicated in the aforementioned schedule of
fees and bonds (base fee plus indicated percentage of the estimated cost of
construction). The plan review fee for commercial construction, in addition to
the base fee, shall be based on the estimated cost of construction of the
proposed structure. The estimated cost of construction shall, at minimum, be
based on the estimated unit cost per square foot for the type of construction
and the use contemplated. The latest edition of means cost data, BOCA building
valuation data report, dodge construction digest or similar reference data may
be used to determine estimated unit cost by the building and zoning director.
B. Building Permit Fees:
1. The building permit fee shall be charged as indicated in the aforementioned
schedule of fees and bonds. The building permit fee shall be paid at time of
permit issuance.
2. The building permit fee shall be based on the estimated cost of construction
of the proposed structure or improvement. The estimated cost of construction
shall, at minimum, be based on the estimated unit cost per square foot for the
type of construction and use contemplated. The latest edition of means cost
data, BOCA building valuation data report, dodge construction digest or similar
reference data may be used to determine estimated unit cost by the director of
building and zoning.
C. Electrical Permit Fees: The electrical permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds. The electrical
permit fee shall be paid at time of permit issuance.
D. Plumbing Permit Fees: The plumbing permit fee shall be charged as indicated
in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds. The plumbing permit fee shall
be paid at time of permit issuance.
E. Mechanical Permit Fees: The mechanical permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds. The mechanical
permit fee shall be paid at time of permit issuance.
F. Fire Protection System Permit Fees: The fire protection system permit fee
shall be charged as indicated in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds.
The fire protection system permit fee shall be paid at time of permit issuance.
G. Final Inspection/Certificate Of Occupancy Fees: The permit fee for a final
inspection, occupancy inspection, temporary occupancy (paid for at the time of
temporary occupancy inspection request), or initial/annual business inspection
shall be charged as indicated in the aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds.
The initial/annual business inspection or final inspection certificate of
occupancy fee shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
H. Elevator, Escalator, Dumbwaiter, Manlift, Handicap Lift, Moving Walk Permit
Fees: The permit fees for an elevator, escalator, dumbwaiter, manlift, handicap
lift and moving walk installation shall be charged as indicated in the
aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds and shall be paid at the time of
permit issuance.
I. Miscellaneous Permit Fees: The permit fee for miscellaneous construction
projects, listed below, shall be charged as indicated in the aforementioned
schedule of fees and bonds:
1. Decks.
2. Utility buildings, gazebos or shelters less than one hundred eighty (180)
square feet.
3. Utility buildings greater than one hundred eighty (180) square feet,
detached garages or private stables.
4. Swimming pools.
5. Hot tubs or spas.
6. Fireplaces.
7. Satellite antennas.
8. Demolition.
9. Moving/raising.
10. Reroofing. (Ord. 94-07, 4-19-1994)
11. Fences. (Ord. 01-10, 6-19-2001)
12. Land disturbing activity. (Ord. 14-03, 2-18-2014)
J. Permit Regulations, Special Conditions And Additional Fees:
1. Expiration Of Permit And Permit Extensions; Failure To Commence Work: If,
after a permit required by this chapter has been granted and the operations
called for by such permit have not commenced within six (6) months after
issuance, such permit shall be void and no operations shall begin until an
extended permit is issued by the village after application therefor, signed by
the owner or owner's agent, is submitted to the village. For good cause shown
by the applicant and as determined by the village, the village may issue an
extended permit. A fee of the greater of fifty dollars ($50.00) or twenty five
percent (25%) of the cost of the original permit shall be charged for each
extended permit. An extended permit shall be valid for six (6) months following
the date of expiration of the original permit and must be applied for within
ten (10) days after the expiration of the original permit or first extended
permit, as the case might be. Only two (2) extended permits shall be granted.
If work has not begun within eighteen (18) months after the date of issuance of
the original permit, all rights under the original and extended permit(s) shall
terminate by limitation.
2. Expiration Of Permit And Permit Extensions; Failure To Complete Work: If,
after a permit required by this chapter has been granted and the operations
called for by such permit have not been completed within twelve (12) months
after issuance, such permit shall be void and no operations shall continue
until an extended permit is issued by the village after application therefor,
signed by the owner or owner's agent, is submitted to the village. For good
cause shown by the applicant and as determined by the village, the village may
issue an extended permit. A fee of the greater of fifty dollars ($50.00) or
twenty five percent (25%) of the cost of the original permit shall be charged
for each extended permit. All extended permits shall be valid for six (6)
months following the date of expiration of the original permit and must be
applied for within ten (10) days after the expiration of the original permit or
first extended permit, as the case might be. Only two (2) extended permits
shall be granted. If work is not completed within twenty four (24) months after
the date of issuance of the original permit, all rights under the original and
extended permits shall terminate by limitation. (Ord. 10-04, 3-2-2010)
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if, after a permit required by this chapter has
been granted to a church, religious corporation or charitable organization (as
defined in this section), and the operations called for by such permit have not
been completed within twelve (12) months after issuance, such permit
automatically shall be extended for an additional twelve (12) months following
the date of expiration of the original permit. Up to four (4) extended permits
may be granted automatically to such church, religious corporation or
charitable organization. If work is not completed within five (5) years after
the date of issuance of the original permit to a church, religious corporation
or charitable organization, all rights under the original and any extended
permits shall terminate by limitation. This paragraph shall be in effect until
April 1, 2021. (Ord. 15-11A, 9-15-2015)
3. Transfer Of Permit: Transfer of a permit issued to someone other than the
original applicant shall require fifteen percent (15%) of the original permit
fee to be paid at time of transfer permit issuance.
4. Work Commenced Without Required Permit: A penalty of one hundred percent
(100%) of the normal permit fee shall be payable by the permit applicant where
work, for which a permit is required, has commenced before the permit is
issued.
5. Not Ready Fee And Reinspection Callback Fee:
a. If an inspection is scheduled and the work to be inspected is not ready for
inspection or the inspector is unable to access the premises for inspection, a
fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be required to be paid prior to any
further inspections.
b. Where more than two (2) inspections of the same work for the same code
violation(s) are required, a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be
required to be paid prior to the third or each subsequent inspection(s). (Ord.
10-04, 3-2-2010)
6. Reimbursement For Use Of Professional Or Technical Consultant Services: If
the purchase and/or use of professional or technical service is required by the
village to perform, complete or resolve permit processing, the setting, posting
or refunding of bonds or deposits, inspections or plan review activity,
including, but not limited to, engineering and legal services, the permit
applicant shall reimburse the village for one hundred fifty percent (150%) of
the costs of such services. Payment shall be due upon the issuance of an
invoice by the village. (Ord. 12-03, 4-3-2012)
7. Permit Plan Review Fee: Plan review fee shall be charged as indicated in the
schedule of fees and bonds adoption from time to time adopted pursuant to this
section. Plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submission of plans for
review, and fees shall be nonrefundable and are separate from permit,
inspection and engineering provision fees.
8. Expedited Permit Plan Review: Expedited permit plan review, if requested by
the permit applicant, shall pay the village of Wayne for one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the costs of such services as indicated in the schedule of
fees and bonds adoption from time to time adopted pursuant to this section.
Plan review fee shall be paid at the time of submission of plans for review,
and said fees shall be nonrefundable and are separate from permit, inspection
and engineering provision fees. (Ord. 10-04, 3-2-2010)
K. Refundable Bonds Or Deposits: Prior to the issuance of a permit, required
refundable bonds shall be deposited with the village to assure compliance with
applicable ordinances. Required bonds shall be charged as indicated in the
aforementioned schedule of fees and bonds. Any bonds or deposits required or
permitted to be made pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
refunded only to the person posting same unless: 1) a written and notarized
assignment of the right to receive such bond or deposit refund is submitted at
the time of request for refund; or 2) a release, waiver and indemnification
agreement, in a form approved by the village attorney, is signed by the person
requesting the refund, provided such agreement is first approved by the board
of trustees. Nothing herein shall be construed to require the village to refund
any bond or deposit if all other requirements for the refund of such bond or
deposit have not been met, including, but not limited to, full compliance with
the requirements of applicable ordinances and reimbursement to the village for
use of professional or technical consultant services as provided in subsection
J6 of this section. Bonds or deposits may be held until there is compliance
with applicable ordinances or, in the case of nonpayment of reimbursable costs,
such costs may be deducted from the bonds or deposits prior to any refund. Any
refundable bond or deposit for which no written request has been made after
three (3) years from the date upon which the person posting such bond or
deposit is otherwise entitled to request a refund shall be retained by the
village as an additional fee to cover the costs of administering the bonds or
deposits, and to defray general expenses and overhead of the building and
zoning department of the village. (Ord. 12-03, 4-3-2012)
L. Violation: It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter,
occupy, maintain, or conduct business in any building or structure in the
village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of this section or
without payment of fees set forth herein.
M. Effect Of Regulations: This section shall not be construed to extend to or
affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or application
for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet
due or payable, unless the director of the building and zoning department
determines that any provision of this section or the regulations incorporated
herein by reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety.
(Ord. 94-07, 4-19-1994)
8-1-7: COMMERCIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION PROCESS:
A. Building Permit Issuance: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction or alteration of any commercial building or structure within the
village without review by the village board of trustees of a written report
from the zoning enforcement officer prepared by him, after the review of site
plans and construction plans for compliance with the village zoning ordinance.
B. Notice To Board Of Trustees: Upon receipt of an application for a building
permit for the construction or alteration of any commercial building or
structure within the village, the zoning enforcement officer, through the
building and zoning department, shall send written notice to the president and
board of trustees and include a written report of the zoning enforcement
officer's review, said notice shall contain, among other things, sufficient
information to identify for the village president and board of trustees the
fact that a building permit for a commercial building or structure has been
applied for, the type of construction contemplated and a copy of the building
plan depicting the general nature and location of the proposed construction or
alteration.
C. Village Board Action: At the first regularly scheduled board meeting
following receipt of the notice required in subsection B of this section, or as
soon as is reasonably practical thereafter, the village president and board of
trustees shall review the report of the zoning enforcement officer. The village
clerk shall notify the building and zoning department, in writing, upon
completion of the review of the zoning enforcement officer's report by the
village president and board of trustees.
D. Building Code And Zoning Ordinance Compliance: This section is in no way
intended to remove from the director of building and zoning, the zoning
enforcement officer or the building and zoning department itself the authority
and responsibility of reviewing plans in order to ensure compliance with the
existing building code and zoning ordinance of the village, as amended. (Ord.
88-16, 8-2-1988)
8-1-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be subject
to enforcement hereof and penalties in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 00-19, 9-5-2000)
ARTICLE A. HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATIONS ARCHITECTURAL APPROVAL
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Approval Prerequisite To Building Permit Issuance
8-1A-2: Registration Of Architectural Guidelines
8-1A-3: Approval Procedures
8-1A-4: Penalty
8-1A-1: APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
From and after the effective date hereof, no building permit shall be issued by
the building and zoning department for any construction requiring prior written
approval by a registered homeowners' association or by a registered
architectural review committee or subcommittee of such association unless
written evidence of such approval is submitted to the department. (Ord. 96-07,
6-4-1996)
8-1A-2: REGISTRATION OF ARCHITECTURAL GUIDELINES:
A homeowners' association or architectural review committee or subcommittee of
such association may register with the village by sending a copy of any
homeowners' association covenants and architectural review guidelines to the
village clerk, with a copy to the building and zoning department, on the
letterhead of the association or architectural review committee or subcommittee
of such association, as applicable, stating that such association or committee
or subcommittee of such association desires to register under the provisions of
this article. Such registration shall continue in effect unless revoked in
writing by such homeowners' association or committee or subcommittee thereof.
(Ord. 96-07, 6-4-1996)
8-1A-3: APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Applicant's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of any
applicant for a building permit to secure and submit any required association
or committee approval; provided, however, that any homeowners' association or
architectural review committee or subcommittee may submit such approval
directly to the department.
   B.   Contents Of Application: All applications for building permit for any
construction, improvements, additions, alterations or repairs of any single-
family residence or accessory building shall contain either a statement under
oath by the applicant that the applicant agrees to obtain any required
approvals by an architectural review committee or subcommittee of any
homeowners' association having jurisdiction, or a representation under oath
that, after due and diligent inquiry, the applicant has determined that no such
approvals are required.
   C.   Falsifying Data: Any permit which is issued by the department based
upon purported architectural approval by homeowners' association or
architectural review committee or subcommittee, or upon the representation that
no approvals are required, is subject to immediate revocation by the building
and zoning director in the event that such representation is determined to be
false, regardless of the intent of the applicant. Any appeal from a revocation
of any permit shall be as otherwise heretofore provided by the building code
adopted in section
8-1-1 of this chapter or other applicable ordinances. (Ord. 96-07, 6-4-1996)
8-1A-4: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of a reckless, intentional or wilful misstatement or
omission of any fact in any application required by this article shall, upon
conviction therefor, be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
or more than the maximum fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Any person violating any other provision
of this article shall, upon conviction, be liable for a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. In addition to any fines permitted to be
imposed for violation of this article, the village may institute an action in
any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any violation hereof. If the
village shall prevail in such action, the village shall be entitled, to the
extent permitted by law, to recover its costs and reasonable attorney fees in
addition to any fines otherwise provided. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
ARTICLE B. SPOT AND AS-BUILT SURVEYS
SECTION:
8-1B-1: Spot And As-Built Surveys Required
8-1B-2: Spot Survey Specifications
8-1B-3: As-Built Survey Specifications
8-1B-4: Additional Rules And Regulations
8-1B-5: Applicability Of Provisions
8-1B-1: SPOT AND AS-BUILT SURVEYS REQUIRED:
The Building Code and regulations of the Village, as may be amended, are hereto
further amended to require a spot survey and as-built survey for construction
in the circumstances hereinafter set forth.
   A.   Spot Surveys: Spot surveys shall be required for all construction of a
principal building on any lot or property within the Village.
   B.   As-Built Surveys: As-built surveys shall be required for all
construction of a principal residence on any lots or property which do not meet
or exceed the minimum lot sizes for the W2 Single-Family Residence District.
As-built surveys shall also be required for construction of a principal
residence on any lots which meet or exceed the minimum lot sizes for the W2
Single-Family Residence District but which are located in a platted subdivision
of record where a majority of the lots within the subdivision are less than two
(2) acres in land area. The Building Officer shall also require as-built
surveys for additions to principal residences or other construction of
buildings or structures if he determines that special drainage problems may
exist. (Ord. 94-08, 4-19-1994)
8-1B-2: SPOT SURVEY SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Survey Submitted: Any spot survey required pursuant to this Article
shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning Department prior to any
construction beyond the foundation.
   B.   Time Of Survey: The spot survey shall be conducted after the foundation
has been completed and shall validate that the building location and elevation
measurements shown on the plans submitted and approved at the time of building
permit issuance are met.
   C.   Items Surveyed: The following items shall be surveyed and shown on the
spot survey submitted to the Building and Zoning Department:
      1.   Top of foundation elevation and walk-out basement elevation;
      2.   Front, side and rear yard building setback measurements
perpendicular from property lines to the closest construction of the building;
      3.   Elevation of all property corners;
      4.   Invert elevations of driveway culvert;
      5.   Such other items as the Building Officer may prescribe by
administrative regulation or which the Building Officer may reasonably request
based on any unique or unusual conditions or special problems existing on the
lot or created as a result of the construction thereon. (Ord. 94-08, 4-19-1994)
8-1B-3: AS-BUILT SURVEY SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Survey Submitted: Any as-built survey required pursuant to this Article
shall be submitted to the Building and Zoning Department prior to requesting a
final inspection for any such construction, at a time to be determined by the
Building Officer.
   B.   Time Of Survey: The as-built survey shall be conducted after rough
grading has been completed and shall validate that the as-built measurements
shown on the plans submitted and approved at the time of building permit
issuance are met, except for six inches (6") of topsoil to be added during
landscaping or fine grading.
   C.   Items Surveyed: The following items shall be surveyed and shown on the
as-built survey submitted to the Building and Zoning Department:
      1.   Top of foundation elevation and walk-out basement elevation;
      2.   Elevations of all property corners;
      3.   Elevations at drainage break-points noted on grading plan;
      4.   Invert elevations of driveway culvert;
      5.   Inverts of culverts on neighboring lots;
      6.   Elevation of ditch flow-line at property lines;
      7.   Such other items as the Building Officer may prescribe by
administrative regulation or which the Building Officer may reasonably request
based on any unique or unusual conditions or special drainage problems existing
on the lot or created as a result of the construction thereon.
      8.   Items required for spot survey (setback measurements). (Ord. 94-08,
4-19-1994)
8-1B-4: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Building Officer shall have the authority to promulgate any administrative
regulations necessary to implement this Article and to establish a time for the
submission of the required surveys. Such time may be determined by the Building
Officer on a permit-by-permit basis without additional regulations. All such
regulations shall be submitted in writing to the Director of the Building and
Zoning Department and to the Village Clerk, and shall become effective
following the next regular meeting of the Village President and Board of
Trustees, unless the corporate authorities shall, at such meeting, alter,
modify or rescind such regulations. The Building Officer may waive, alter or
modify the requirements of subsections 8-1B-2B and C or 8-1B-3B and C of this
Article based on individual circumstances or requirements. (Ord. 94-08, 4-19-
1994)
8-1B-5: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
This Article shall not be construed to eliminate any existing requirements to
submit surveys or plans pursuant to the provisions of any other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Village or other governmental entity. (Ord.
94-08, 4-19-1994)
CHAPTER 2
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adopted
8-2-2: Amendments
8-2-3: Violation; Penalty
8-2-4: Effect Of Regulations
8-2-1: ADOPTED:
The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts a property maintenance code
(hereinafter referred to as the "property maintenance code") for the control of
buildings, structures and properties as herein provided; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as amended of the
published international property maintenance code, 2024 Edition, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part thereof, as if fully set out in this
chapter, except for the additions, insertions, deletions and changes thereto as
set out in section
8-2-2  of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international property
maintenance code are on file with the village clerk and are available for
public inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by
law. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
Additions, insertions, deletions and changes to sections of the international
property maintenance code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A]101.1 Title (page 9, Title, second line).
   Insert: The Village of Wayne.
Subsection [A]103.1 Creation of Agency (page 10, Creation of Agency).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The building department shall administer and enforce the property
maintenance code.
Subsection [A]105.1 General (page 10, Duties and Powers of The Code Official,
General).
   Add: The director of building and zoning shall be known as the code
official.
Subsection [A]105.3 (page 11 and 12, Right of Entry).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of the public,
the code official is authorized to attempt to obtain consent to enter at any
reasonable time from any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a
dwelling, structure or property subject to the Wayne village code for the
purpose of making inspections and performing duties under the Wayne village
code. Such owner, occupant, or other person in charge shall be informed that
entry by the code official is sought for the purpose of making an inspection
and performing duties under this code. Failure to give consent to entry under
this section shall not be punishable by fine or imprisonment.
Subsection [A]105.3.1 Search Warrant in Absence of Consent (page 12, delete
Warrant subsection, insert Search Warrant in Absence of Consent).
   Delete: Warrant subsection.
   Insert: If the code official, after a reasonable attempt to obtain consent,
does not receive consent to enter a dwelling, structure or property subject to
the code as described in subsection 104.3, the code official may seek in the
circuit court for the 18th judicial circuit, DuPage County, Illinois, a search
warrant pursuant to subsection 104.3.2 of this code. An owner, occupant or
other person in charge of a dwelling, structure or property subject to the
provisions of this code, who is presented with a search warrant obtained
pursuant to this section, shall not refuse, impede, inhibit, interfere with,
restrict, or obstruct entry and free access to any part of the structure or
premises where an inspection authorized by the search warrant is sought to be
made.
Subsection [A]105.3.2 Procurement of Search Warrants (page 12, Procurement of
Search Warrants, new subsection).
   Add: A search warrant sought pursuant to subsection 104.3.1 shall be sought
in the circuit court for the 18th judicial circuit, DuPage County, Illinois.
The court may consider any of the following factors along with such other
matters as it deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant shall be
issued:
   (1) Eyewitness account of violation.
   (2) Citizen complaints.
   (3) Tenant complaints.
   (4) Plain view violations.
   (5) Violations apparent from village records.
   (6) Property deterioration.
   (7) Age of property.
   (8) Nature of alleged violation.
   (9) Similar properties in the area.
   (10) Documented violations on similar properties in the area.
   (11) Passage of time since last inspection.
   (12) Previous violations on the property.
Section [A]106 (page 12, Means of Appeal, delete entire section and insert new
section).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the director
of building and zoning to the zoning board of appeals. Means of appeal shall
follow requirements set forth in subsection
2-3-4D of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A]107.2 Notice of Violation (page 12, Notice of Violation, delete
entire subsection and insert new subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner
if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the
notice at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of
the age of 13 years or upwards, who shall be informed of the contents thereof,
provided that the person making service shall also mail a copy of the notice
with postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner at his or her usual place of
abode; or by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last
known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered
letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by
posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice, or at least one publication of such notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation.
Subsection [A]111.3 Failure to Comply (page 15 and 16, Demolition Failure to
Comply, delete entire subsection and insert new subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Whenever the owner of a property fails to comply with a demolition
order within the time period prescribed, the code official shall immediately
report such failure to comply to the corporate authorities. The corporate
authorities may demolish, or cause the demolition of dangerous and unsafe
buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the village by applying
to the circuit court for the 18th judicial circuit, DuPage County, Illinois,
for an order authorizing such action to be taken with respect to any such
building if the owner or owners thereof, including the lien holders of record,
after at least 15 days written notice by mail to do so, have failed to demolish
it. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or
owners of any such building including the lien holders of record is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this subsection. The cost
of such demolition incurred by the village of Wayne, including court costs,
attorneys' fees and other costs related to the enforcement of this subsection
is recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and is a lien
thereon, which lien is superior to all prior existing liens and encumbrances,
except taxes. Within sixty (60) days after such demolition, the village of
Wayne shall file notice of lien of such cost and expense incurred in the office
of the county recorder. The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting
out (1) a description of the real estate sufficient for identification thereof,
(2) the amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred, and (3) the
date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the village or by the
lien holder of record. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or
persons interested in the property after notice of lien has been filed, the
lien shall be released by the village and the release may be filed of record as
in the case of filing a notice of lien. Where the dangerous condition of a
structure is deemed by the corporate authorities, upon recommendation of the
code official to constitute an imminent and immediate danger to human life, the
village may promptly raze or remove said structure or a portion thereof which
has been deemed to cause such a danger in accord with applicable laws and
procedures.
Section [A]111.5 Demolition or Structure Moving Permit (page 16, new section,
Demolition Permit).
   Add: A demolition or structure moving permit is required prior to any such
work occurring on property within the village of Wayne. To obtain a permit, the
property owner or his authorized representative shall file an application for
permit on a form furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a
signed statement indicating the exact scope of demolition or structure moving
work to occur on the subject property. Prior to issuance of a permit, the
person, firm or corporation engaged in the work of demolition or moving a
structure shall provide copy of license to perform such work. A valid
certificate of insurance must be submitted specific to the property where
demolition or structure moving is to take place. A bond in the penal sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the director of
building and zoning, to indemnify, keep and save harmless the village of Wayne
against any loss, cost, damage, expense, judgment, or liability of any kind
whatsoever the village may suffer, or which may accrue against, be charged or
be recovered from said village, or any of its officials from or by reason or on
account of accidents to persons or property during any such demolition or
moving operations and from or by reason or on account of anything done under or
by virtue of any permit granted for such demolition or moving operations. The
bond in each case shall extend over the period of and cover all such demolition
or moving operation. Prior to issuance of permit, the applicant shall submit
written evidence to the director of building and zoning that the property for
which such permit is to be issued has been inspected and treated for vectors
and vermin by a person or persons duly qualified and licensed as exterminators
in vermin and pest control. The inspection and treatment for vectors and vermin
shall be made and conducted within forty-five (45) days preceding the
commencement of demolition or moving. Prior to issuance of permit, it is
required that the village be provided a certified inspection report from an
Illinois licensed asbestos inspector certifying that the property is clear of
any asbestos hazards before commencing demolition or moving. A separate permit
shall be required for the removal of asbestos containing material, should
inspection discover the presence of asbestos containing material. Upon
satisfactory report of removal and disposal of asbestos containing material by
an Illinois licensed asbestos abatement contractor, the demolition or structure
moving permit shall be issued providing all other requirements for such permit
have been met. Provisions shall be made by the permit applicant to control
erosion and dust during the demolition or structure moving process. Safety
fencing shall be required, minimum forty-eight (48) to seventy-two (72) inches
in height above grade around the entire perimeter of the project area and shall
be installed prior to the commencement of work. Fees for all permits are
subject to section
8-1-6 of the Wayne village code.
Section 202.0 (pages 17 and 18, Definitions, additions).
   Add: Dangerous Landscaping. Any tree or shrub, or limb or portion thereof,
which creates a risk of imminent danger or hazard to person or property in that
it has broken or fallen or threatens to fall or come in contact with a
building, neighboring property or overhead utility lines. Any tree or shrub, or
limb or portion thereof, that blocks safe passage of, or obstructs in whole or
in part, streets, sidewalks, driveways, easements or bicycle paths; or in that
it falls or threatens to fall and block safe passage after having become
uprooted or unstable as a result of construction activity, disease, age, severe
weather or any other event.
   Add: Demolition and Construction Waste. Waste materials from the
construction or destruction of residential, commercial or industrial
structures, including concrete, gravel, sand, soil, lumber or any type of
excess fill or construction spoils.
   Add: Junk. Any discarded material, such as stoves, refrigerators, furniture,
automobile parts, toys, miscellaneous appliances or excessive amounts of
materials other than garbage, rubbish or refuse.
   Add: Refuse. Any solid waste material.
Subsection 302.1 (page 20, Sanitation, add second line).
   Add: Any storage of salt on the exterior of private property for use in snow
and ice control is prohibited.
Subsection 302.2.1 Drainage System Discharge (Page 20, add new subsection)
   Add: The drainage system sump pump pipe shall discharge to grade a minimum
of three (3) feet but not more than five (5) feet from the exterior wall of the
building. Sump pump discharge shall not be connected to the sanitary sewer.
Splash blocks shall be required at all sump pump discharge lines. Splash blocks
shall be constructed of concrete or other material acceptable to the Director
of Building and Zoning and be designed to carry water at least three (3) feet.
It shall be mandatory to carry the water flow away from the direction of the
adjacent side lot so that the water will not empty onto such property as it
flows from the sump pump discharge.
   If an underground drainage system is used to carry sump discharge water away
from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an "air-gap"
between the discharge pipe at the house prior to entering the sump extension.
The drainage system shall extend a minimum of ten (10) feet away from the
foundation wall of the building and shall terminate to the ground surface as
far as possible, but no less than twenty-five (25) feet away from the property
line. Once ten (10) feet beyond the foundation wall of the building, perforated
pipe shall be used to dissipate the flow of water. Drainage system sump
discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate the ground or run off into
adjacent properties, and shall not accumulate on to public ways. Other methods
to dissipate storm water may be considered with the approval of the Director of
Building and Zoning.
Subsection 302.2.2 Roof Drainage (Page 20, add new subsection)
   Insert: Gutters shall be installed on all roofs with back edge not less than
one (1) inch (25.4 mm) higher than the front (outside) edge. All gutters and
downspouts shall be securely fastened to the building. Downspouts shall not be
connected to the sanitary or storm sewer. Splash blocks are required at the
bottom of downspouts and shall be construction of concrete or other material
acceptable to the Director of Building and Zoning and shall be designed to
carry water at least three (3) feet but not more than five (5) feet from the
exterior wall of the building. It shall be mandatory to carry the water flow
away from the direction of the adjacent side lot so that the water will not
empty onto such property as it flows from the downspout channel.
   If an underground drainage system is used to carry downspout discharge water
away from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an "air-
gap" between the downspout discharge pipe at the house prior to entering the
downspout extension. The downspout drainage system shall extend a minimum of
ten (10) feet away from the foundation wall of the building and shall terminate
to the ground surface as far as possible, but no less than twenty-five (25)
feet away from the property line. Once ten (10) feet beyond the foundation wall
of the building, perforated pipe shall be used to dissipate the flow of water.
Drainage system downspout discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate
the ground or run off into adjacent properties, and shall not accumulate on to
public ways. Other methods to dissipate downspout storm water may be considered
with the approval of the Director of Building and Zoning.
Subsection 302.4 (page 20, Weeds, delete entire subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection. (Ord. 18-15, 8-7-2018)
Subsection 302.5 Rodent Harborage (page 20, Rodent Harborage, add to end of
subsection).
   Add: Any storage or placement of materials on property within the village in
a manner which may harbor pest infestation is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and in violation of this code. Any type of infestation shall immediately be
abated.
Subsection 302.8 Motor Vehicles (page 20, Motor Vehicles, Inoperable Or
Unlicensed, delete existing subsection and insert new subsection).
   Delete: Existing subsection.
   Insert: All inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles, on public or private
property, are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a violation of this code.
"Inoperable motor vehicle" shall mean any motor vehicle from which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels or
other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle
is incapable of being driven.
Subsection 302.10 Equipment Storage (page 21, Equipment Storage, add new
subsection).
   Add: It is hereby declared a nuisance and a violation of this code for an
owner of real estate within the village to store out in the open on the
exterior of private property construction equipment, snow removal equipment or
landscaping equipment except as otherwise allowed by the Wayne zoning
ordinance.
Subsection 302.11 Landscaping (page 21, add new subsection).
   Add: All premises and exterior property shall be maintained and be free from
dangerous landscaping.
Subsection 303.1.1 Swimming Pools (page 21, add new subsection).
   Add: Swimming pools are to be regulated by this chapter governing the
maintenance, use and equipment of private swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and
portable or temporary pools in residential zoning districts where it is more
stringent than this code. All other installations shall be regulated by this
chapter and other applicable codes and ordinances.
Subsection 304.14 Insect Screens (page 22, Insect Screens, first line, insert
in the "date" blanks).
   Insert: April 1 to December 1.
Subsection 308.1 Accumulation of rubbish or garbage (page 25, addition after
second line).
   Add: It is hereby declared a nuisance and a violation of this code for an
owner of real estate within the village to allow garbage, rubbish, junk, refuse
or construction material or waste to remain outside in the open air upon that
property. All garbage, rubbish, junk, refuse or construction material or waste
must be enclosed in containers. No container shall be stored in the front yard,
including that area between the building and front yard, or stored in the
corner-side or side yard of any property including that area between the
building and that yard unless screened from view from the street.
Subsection 404.8 New Occupancy in Existing Non-Residential Space (page 28, New
Occupancy In Existing Non-Residential Space, new subsection).
   Add: No property, premises, building or tenant space within a non-
residential building shall be occupied or reoccupied without first having been
inspected by the village building department and the appropriate fire
protection district to insure compliance with public health, safety and any
other applicable village ordinance requirements. This verification of
compliance is to be initiated through building permit application for an
occupancy inspection.
Subsection [P]502.5 Public Toilet Facilities (page 29, Public Toilet
Facilities, deletion and insertion, second line).
   Delete: "International plumbing code" on third line.
   Insert: Section
8-1-5 of the Wayne village code.
Subsection 602.3 Heat Supply (page 31, Heat Supply, second line, insert in the
"date" blanks).
   Insert: September 1 to June 1.
Subsection 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces (page 31, Occupiable Work Spaces, first
line, insert in the "date" blanks).
   Insert: September 1 to June 1.
Subsection 606.1 (page 33, Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters, General, add
to end of subsection).
   Add: Elevators and conveying systems shall be maintained in conformance with
state of Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulations act (225
ILCS 312/140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator
and conveying systems shall be maintained in compliance with the following
standards and guidelines:
   1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-10)
and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2010).
   3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
   4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2008).
   5.   Standard for the qualifications of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
   6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
   7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3
and 4, 2008. (Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-2-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner and/or occupant of real estate located within the village
upon which a nuisance or violation as indicated by this chapter exists shall be
sent or served a notice stating the specific violation. If the violation has
not been corrected within seven (7) days after receiving the notice, a citation
will be issued by the village for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed to have been committed on each day which a violation continues to occur.
Fines for each offense will be as indicated in subsection D of this section. A
court order will then be sought to allow the village, or a duly authorized
contractor, to enter upon the property to abate the nuisance. The village will
also seek reimbursement for abatement of the nuisance by court order.
   B.   Any costs Any costs incurred by the village or a duly authorized
contractor in abating a nuisance, violation or any other charge imposed by the
village under this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate in question as
authorized under the Illinois municipal code and shall be superior to all other
liens and encumbrances except tax liens, provided that within sixty (60) days
after such cost and expense is incurred, the village, or a contractor
performing such services as authorized by the village, in his or in its own
name, files notice of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice
shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the real
estate sufficient for identification thereof, 2) the amount of money
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service; and 3)
the date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the village. Such
lien shall not be valid as to any purchaser whose rights in and to such real
estate have arisen subsequent to the weed cutting or destroying and prior to
the filing of the notice of lien. The lien shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lien or whose right in and to such real
estate arises prior to the filing of the notice. Upon payment of the cost and
expense by the owner or other persons interested in such property after notice
of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village or person in
whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of record as in
the case of filing notice of lien.
   C.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, enlarge, repair,
demolish, remove, use or maintain any building or structure in the village of
Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter or any other
applicable village ordinance.
   D.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a penalty of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day of violation. Each day that
a violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and
separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this chapter, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication
pursuant to Section
1-4-5 of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-
2025)
8-2-4: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any construction
activity for which a permit was issued or application for permit filed prior to
the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable, unless the
director of building and zoning determines that any provisions of this section
or the regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for
reasons of public health and safety. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-
21-2020; 25-02, 4-1-2025)
CHAPTER 3
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Applicability Of Provisions
8-3-3: Plan Submittal And Approval
8-3-4: Standards And Criteria
8-3-5: Fees
8-3-6: Violation; Penalties
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to control soil erosion and sedimentation
resulting from rainfall events on properties where nonagricultural land-
disturbing activities are occurring. It is the intent of this Chapter to reduce
the loss of topsoil and minimize sedimentation which may diminish the quality
of surface waters. (Ord. 91-17, 7-9-1991)
8-3-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
This Chapter shall apply to nonagricultural land-disturbing activities within
the jurisdictional boundaries of the Village and shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, those activities which require a building permit or
excavation/filling permit. The Village shall have authority to determine the
need for erosion control measures. (Ord. 91-17, 7-9-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-3: PLAN SUBMITTAL AND APPROVAL:
When deemed necessary by the Village, as outlined above, an applicant for a
building permit or excavation/filling permit shall submit an erosion control
plan to the Village Building and Zoning Department for review by the Village
Engineer. The Building and Zoning Department shall require approval of an
erosion control plan by the Village Engineer prior to the issuance of any
building permit or excavation/filling permit, unless the Village Engineer shall
determine in writing that an erosion control plan is not necessary or
appropriate for the property or structure subject to permit. When possible, the
plan shall be incorporated with the existing topography and proposed grading
plan and shall clearly delineate all areas subject to disturbance. The content
of the plan shall include, as a minimum, the items set forth in Section
8-3-4 below. (Ord. 91-17, 7-9-1991)
8-3-4: STANDARDS AND CRITERIA:
The following standards and criteria shall be used to prevent soil erosion and
sedimentation:
   A.   State Standards Adopted: Soil erosion and sediment control measures
shall be consistent with the recommendation contained in the "Standards and
Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control" published by the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, latest revision as of July 1, 1991,
and the "Illinois Procedures and Standards for Urban Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control", latest revision as of July 1, 1991.
   B.   Required Prior To Commencement Of Activities: Soil erosion and sediment
control measures shall be in place prior to the commencement of any land-
disturbing activities.
   C.   Minimize Time And Area Of Disturbance: The area and time of disturbance
shall be minimized to the greatest extent as is practicable.
   D.   Implement Measures Soon: Soil stabilization measures shall be
implemented in disturbed areas as soon as is practicable.
   E.   Control Devices To Remain In Place: Soil erosion and sedimentation
control devices shall remain in place and be maintained to the satisfaction of
the Village until such a time when permanent measures become fully functional.
   F.   Inspection: The Village shall inspect such devices, at its discretion,
to ensure that all measures are being properly employed and maintained.
   G.   Installation Of Vegetative Cover: Permanent erosion control, such as
vegetative cover, shall be installed as soon as is practicable. (Ord. 91-17, 7-
9-1991)
8-3-5: FEES:
The building and zoning department may require reimbursement to the village of
all fees and costs incurred in connection with the review and approval of any
erosion control plan as a condition precedent to the issuance of any building
permit or excavation/filling permit. In the alternative, the director of the
building and zoning department may authorize a building permit or an
excavation/filling permit to be issued prior to the payment of fees if a cash
deposit satisfactory to the village is made in an amount equal to the village
engineer's estimate of fees and costs. (Ord. 91-17, 7-9-1991)
8-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable by a
fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation of this chapter
occurs shall be deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 4
SATELLITE ANTENNAS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Construction Permits
8-4-3: Compliance Required
8-4-4: Inspection Required
8-4-5: Specifications
8-4-6: Variations From Specifications
8-4-7: Violation; Penalties
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CLASS I SATELLITE ANTENNA: Any satellite antennas that are permanently mounted
on a building and do not exceed twenty four inches (24") in diameter.
CLASS II SATELLITE ANTENNA: Satellite antennas of any size but which are
mounted or deployed on the ground.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Building and Zoning Department of the Village, or
the person exercising the functions of the Director.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, governmental
agency or unit of government, club or organization of any kind.
SATELLITE ANTENNA: Any accessory structure capable of receiving radio or
television signals from a transmitter or transmitter relay located in planetary
orbit. This definition includes but is not limited to, satellite receivers,
satellite dish antennas, satellite discs, director broadcast systems and
television reception-only systems. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
8-4-2: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall proceed to erect, install, construct
or build a Class II satellite antenna upon any property within the Village
without first obtaining a permit therefor, signed by the Director of Building
and Zoning or his authorized representative. No permit shall be required to
erect, install, construct or build a Class I satellite antenna.
   B.   Application For Permit: The application for a permit to erect, install,
construct or build a Class II satellite antenna shall be on such form as may be
prescribed by the Director, together with any supporting data as may be
required by the Director. Such application shall contain such information and
drawings as shall be required by the Director for a proper understanding of the
proposed satellite antenna. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
   C.   Permit Fee: The fee for a permit to erect, install, construct, or build
a Class II satellite antenna shall be as set out in the Schedule of Fees And
Bonds adopted in Section
8-1-6 of this Title. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994; amd. 1998 Code)
   D.   Landscaping Performance Bonds: At the time of the issuance of any
permit to erect, install, construct or build a Class II satellite antenna, the
applicant for permit shall furnish a refundable cash performance bond in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to ensure that all landscaping
requirements of this Chapter are satisfied. Upon issuance of a zoning
certificate by the Director of Building and Zoning certifying that the Class II
satellite antenna has been erected, installed and constructed in accordance
with this Chapter, the bond shall be refunded to the applicant. (Ord. 94-28,
12-6-1994)
8-4-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All Class II satellite antennas shall be built in accordance with the plans as
approved by the Building and Zoning Department, unless approval of changes has
been given in writing by the Director. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
8-4-4: INSPECTION REQUIRED:
Any person erecting, installing, constructing or building a Class II satellite
antenna shall notify the Building and Zoning Department at the time of
completion of such erection, installation, construction or building in order to
permit adequate inspection of the Class II satellite antenna and related
equipment after completion. Such inspection shall be performed by the Building
and Zoning Department upon notification and at reasonable hours. No satellite
antenna shall be placed in operation until such inspection has been completed,
and the Director of Building and Zoning has issued a zoning certificate showing
compliance with the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
8-4-5: SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Size And Location: The size and location of any Class II satellite
antenna shall comply with all of the following requirements:
      1.   Size: No satellite antenna shall have a diameter in excess of twelve
feet (12') or any overall height of fifteen feet (15') above ground level.
      2.   Mounting: Any Class II satellite antenna shall be permanently
mounted or affixed to the ground. No Class I or Class II antenna shall be
erected, installed, constructed or built on a portable or movable structure
that is not permanently affixed to the ground, such as a trailer. No Class II
satellite antenna shall be mounted on any building.
      3.   Screening: All Class II satellite antennas shall be totally
screened, for their entire height, from view of at a height of six feet (6')
above ground level from any adjacent property or public or private street.
Screening shall be provided by one or more of the following:
         a.   The dwelling on the lot where such antenna is located;
         b.   Garages, storage buildings or other accessory buildings which
exist in accordance and in compliance with the zoning laws of the Village 1 ;
or
         c.   Landscaping, plantings, fencing, hedge, or berm which provide
year round screening. Plantings shall be a minimum of twenty four inches (24")
in height and shall be of a variety that will grow to a height of at least six
feet (6') within five (5) years.
   B.   Location On Premises: All Class II satellite antennas shall be
positioned and affixed to the real property in accordance with the following
requirements:
      1.   Class II satellite antenna shall be erected, installed, constructed
or built in such a manner so that any portion of said satellite antenna extends
to a point located in the front or side yards of any real property.
      2.   No Class II satellite antenna shall be installed, erected,
constructed or built in such a manner that any portion of said satellite
antenna extends to a point within:
         a.   Fifty feet (50') from the property line of any property located
in the W1 Single-Family Residence District;
         b.   Thirty feet (30') from the property line of any property located
in the W2 Single-Family Residence District; and
         c.   Twenty feet (20') from the property line of any property located
in the W3 and W4 Single-Family Residence Districts; and
         d.   Fifty feet (50') from the property line of any property located
in a Commercial Equestrian District or of any property holding a commercial
equestrian special use permit.
      3.   No Class II satellite antenna shall be installed, erected,
constructed or built on any zoning lot of less than forty thousand (40,000)
square feet regardless of zoning district.
      4.   A Class II satellite antenna shall be deemed to be a "structure" for
purposes of the application of the Zoning Ordinance 2 .
   C.   Number Of Class II Satellite Antennas: Only one Class II satellite
antenna shall be permitted on any zoning lot.
   D.   Color, Appearance Or Type: All satellite antennas shall be of a dark
neutral color and of the open mesh design. There shall be no advertising an any
surface thereof. (Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
2 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
8-4-6: VARIATIONS FROM SPECIFICATIONS:
Administrative variations from the provisions of this Chapter may be granted by
the Director only in accordance with the standards established as follows: when
need can be demonstrated due to technical reasons:
   A.   To permit a variation of up to ten percent (10%) of the required side
yard setback in the W1 and W2 single-family residence districts with respect to
the location of a class II satellite antenna only; or
   B.   To permit the installation of a class II satellite antenna in the front
yard in the W1 single-family residence district, but not less than one hundred
feet (100') from a road, where such antenna shall be screened and unobtrusive.
(Ord. 94-28, 12-6-1994)
8-4-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. Such
penalty shall not preclude the village from seeking any other remedy,
including, but not limited to, injunctive relief, to prevent violations of this
chapter. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 5
SWIMMING POOLS
(Rep. by Ord. 20-16, 8-18-2020)
CHAPTER 6
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
8-6-1: Adopted
8-6-2: Amendments
8-6-3: Violation; Penalty
8-6-4: Effect Of Regulations
8-6-1: ADOPTED:
The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts a fuel gas code (hereinafter
referred to as the "fuel gas code") for systems and equipment as herein
provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms as amended of the published international fuel gas code,
2024 Edition, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part thereof, as if
fully set out in this chapter, except for the additions, insertions, changes
and deletions thereto as set forth in section
8-6-2  of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international fuel gas
code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 25-02, 4-
1-2025)
8-6-2: AMENDMENTS:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the international
fuel gas code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A] 101.1 (page 11, Title, first line insert).
   Insert: The Village of Wayne.
Subsection [A] 103.1 (page 13, Creation of Agency, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The building department shall be charged with the enforcement of the
fuel gas code, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as the
code official.
Subsection [A] 105.5.3 (page 16, Permit Expiration, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 105.5.4 (page 16, Permit Extensions, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit extensions shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
New subsection [A] 105.6 (page 16, Fuel Gas/Mechanical Contractor Requirements,
add subsection).
   Add: All fuel gas system and related mechanical work requires a village
permit subject to section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code and shall be performed by a licensed
mechanical contractor. A photocopy of the mechanical contractor's license and
certificate of insurance must be submitted to the director of building and
zoning prior to permit issuance. Any fuel gas system and related mechanical
work, for which a permit is required, performed on Village of Wayne property or
right-of-way requires that the Village of Wayne be listed as an additional
insured on the certificate of insurance and that the mechanical contractor
submit an executed permittee indemnity signature page with the permit
application.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit, a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), except where work to be performed exceeds the minimum
bond amount the bond shall be for the actual cost of work to be performed,
shall be executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in the
state of Illinois as surety on the bond with the applicant as principal on the
bond, and the Village of Wayne as obligee, for its benefit, and at the
discretion of the Village of Wayne, that of consumers dealing with the
applicant, conditioned that the applicant shall faithfully perform the duties
without damage to surrounding private or public properties and in all things
comply with Village of Wayne codes and ordinances pertaining to the applied for
permit. The bond shall remain until the issuance of final inspection approval
and/or final certificate of occupancy.
Subsection [A] 108.2 (page 17, Permit Fees, delete subsection and insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit fees shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 108.6 (page 17, Fee Refunds, delete subsection and insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Section [A] 112 (page 19, delete entire appeals section and insert).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code
official to the zoning board of appeals. Means of appeal shall follow
requirements set forth in subsection
2-3-4 D of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 113.4 (page 19, Violation Penalties, delete subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Subsection 301.6 (page 30, Plumbing Connections, second line delete and
insert).
   Delete: International plumbing code.
   Insert: Section
8-1-5  of the Wayne village code.
Subsection 309.2 (page 42, Electrical, Connections, second line delete and
insert).
   Delete: NFPA 70.
Insert: Section
8-1-4  of the Wayne village code. (Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-6-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to design, install, construct, reconstruct, alter
or use/maintain fuel gas systems and gas fired appliances in any building or
structure, or on property in the village of Wayne in violation of the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a penalty of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day that a violation of
this chapter occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate offense. In
addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such other action
as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter,
including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication pursuant to
Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-
2025)
8-6-4: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any construction
activity for which a permit was issued or application for permit filed prior to
the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable, unless the
director of building and zoning determines that any provisions of this chapter
or the regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for
reasons of public health and safety. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-
21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1- 2025)
CHAPTER 7
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
8-7-1: Adopted
8-7-2: Violation; Penalty
8-7-3: Effect Of Regulations
8-7-1: ADOPTED:
The Village of Wayne hereby amends and adopts an energy conservation code
(hereinafter referred to as the "energy conservation code") for energy
efficient building envelopes and energy efficient building related mechanical,
lighting and power systems as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the current
addition of the published Illinois energy conservation code 71 Ill. Adm. Code
600, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part thereof, as if fully set
out in this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the Illinois energy
conservation code are on file with the village clerk and are available for
public inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by
law. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-7-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to design, install, construct, reconstruct, alter
or use/maintain any building or structure and related mechanical, lighting and
power systems in the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a penalty of
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day that a
violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate
offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such
other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this
chapter, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication pursuant
to Section
1-4-5  of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4–1-
2025)
8-7-3: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any construction
activity for which a permit was issued or application for permit filed prior to
the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable, unless the
director of building and zoning determines that any provisions of this chapter
or the regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for
reasons of public health and safety. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-
21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1- 2025)
CHAPTER 8
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Code Adopted
8-8-2: Additions, Insertions, Changes And Deletions
8-8-3: Enforcement; Penalty
8-8-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The village is empowered to provide reasonable safeguards to protect the public
from fire and explosions hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises, and the village
president and the board of trustees deem it in the best interest of the Village
of Wayne to adopt a fire code as herein provided; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms as amended of the
published international fire code, 2024 Edition, are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part thereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, except
for the additions, insertions, changes and deletions thereto as set forth in
section
8-8-2  of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international fire
code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 16-05, 6-
7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-8-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, CHANGES AND DELETIONS:
The following sections of the international fire code, 2024 Edition, are hereby
revised as follows:
Subsection [A] 101.1 Title (page 24, name of jurisdiction, insert in first
line)
   Insert: Village of Wayne.
Subsection [A] 101.2 Scope (page 24, addition to scope, number (6.) and (7.) to
be added)
   Add: (6.) All references in this code to the international building code or
the international existing building code shall be meant to conform to the
current provisions of the Wayne building codes.
   (7.) All references to the international residential code, the construction
of one-and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings
(townhouses) no more than three (3) stories in height with a separate means of
egress are to conform to the current provisions of the Wayne building codes.
Subsection [A] 101.6 Zoning (page 24, add new subsection)
   Add: Zoning - The restrictions of the Wayne zoning ordinance, as amended
from time to time, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of the
Wayne village code; and such restrictions shall be controlling except insofar
as the Wayne village code imposes greater restrictions in which case the life
safety provisions of the Wayne village code shall control.
Subsection [A] 101.7 Legislative (page 24, add new subsection)
   Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The
village president and board of trustees hereby declares that it would have
approved this chapter, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses and phrases be declared invalid.
Subsection [A] 102.3 Change of Use or Occupancy (page 25, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: No building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued shall be used for a different classification or group occupancy until a
certificate of occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the
director of building and zoning; provided, however, that no certificate of
occupancy shall be issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the
building complies with the Wayne zoning ordinance. "Change of occupancy" is not
intended to mean change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to
occupy the building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification
into a different occupancy or use group.
Subsection [A] 103.1 Creation of Agency (page 25, delete section and insert)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: The village building department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the fire code as amended herein, and the director of building
and zoning shall be known as the fire code official where referenced in the
Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 105.1 Permits - General (page 28, permits section - add to
second line)
   Add: Permits shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 105.3.1 Expiration (page 29, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by section
8-1-6  of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A] 106.2.1 Information on Construction Documents (page 37, add to
end of subsection)
   Add: Unless otherwise specified by the director of building and zoning, each
application shall be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) sets of drawings and
specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to practice
architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a structural
engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by the
Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when it
is determined to be sufficient by the director of building and zoning. To
obtain a permit, the owner or his representative shall file an application on a
form furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a signed
statement indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all parts of the building
and the estimated construction cost thereof.
Subsection [A] 109.2 Inspections (page 38, add to end of subsection)
   Add: It shall be unlawful to occupy, utilize, conduct operations, or conduct
business on premises prior to obtaining occupancy or compliance inspection
approval from the village of Wayne. No building, premises or part thereof,
hereafter erected, or a structure of which shall hereafter be altered or
repaired and for which a permit shall be required as provided in the Wayne
village code, and no existing building in which the character of the occupancy
is to be changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a
certificate of occupancy and compliance shall have been issued by the director
of building and zoning. Such certificate shall carry the certification of the
director of building and zoning that said building, premises or part thereof
conforms to the requirements of this and any other applicable village code or
ordinance, and that said building, construction, alteration, repair, use or
proposed operation is in compliance with the plans and specifications upon
which the permit required by this code was issued.
Section [A] 112 Means of Appeals (page 39, Means of Appeals, delete section and
insert)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the director of building and zoning (fire code official) to the
zoning board of appeals. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in
subsection
2-3-4 D of the Wayne village code.
Subsection [A]113.3 Notice of Violation (page 39, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Upon the failure of the owners of said building or other structure, or
the party or parties interested therein, within five (5) days after the service
of the notice of failure to comply with an order of the village president and
board of trustees to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing
and demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the
owner or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such
work to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof,
the village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
structure, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the
same in a penal action before the 18th judicial circuit court, DuPage County,
Illinois for the violation of the provisions of this code. The village may
also, in its discretion, cause the structure to be secured to prevent access,
cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public or removed in its
entirety, after the failure, within the time hereinabove provided for, to
restore the same to a safe condition.
Subsection [A]113.3.1 Service (page 39, add to subsection)
   Add: Whenever the director of building and zoning shall condemn and declare
any building or other structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or
unsanitary condition thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served
upon the owner or owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and
upon the holder or holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if
any, ordering and directing said building or other structure to be put in a
safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Service of said notice
may be effected by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by
registered mail directed to the person involved, at his last address known to
the director of building and zoning or available to him upon examination of the
records of the county treasurer and county clerk of DuPage or Kane County,
Illinois, as the case might be and by posting a copy thereof upon the premises
subject to such condemnation.
Subsection [A]113.4.1 Abatement of Violation (page 40, add to subsection)
   Add: If any building or other structure has become dangerous to life, limb
or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration, or
fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the same
unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the director of building and zoning, if and when he shall find
any such conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a
nuisance and shall condemn the same, and no person, firm or corporation shall
occupy, rent, lease or use such building or other structure with or without
compensation. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute
a petty offense, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a
violation thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as
provided by the Wayne village code.
Section 202 Definitions (page 43, [BG] Area, Building, change first sentence;
page 57, [BG] High-Rise Building, change height)
[BG] Area, Building:
   Change: "The area included within the surrounding exterior walls…" to "The
gross area including surrounding exterior walls…" in the first sentence.
[BG] High-Rise Building:
   Change: "75 feet (22 860 mm) to 55 feet 16 764 mm) above lowest level of
fire department vehicle access"
Subsection 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 (page 142, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-1 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.1.2 Group A-2 (page 142, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-2 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-3 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-4 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.1.5 Group A-5 (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-5 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.2 Group B (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
ambulatory care facilities.
Subsection 903.2.2.1 Ambulatory Care Facilities (page 143, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
ambulatory care facilities.
Subsection 903.2.3 Group E (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group E
occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.4 Group F-1 (page 143, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
F-1 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.6 Group I (page 144, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group I
occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.7 Group M (page 144, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group M
occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.9 Group S-1 (page 145, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
S-1 occupancies.
Subsection 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages (page 145, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as repair garages.
Subsection 903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of Tires (page 145, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Buildings and structures utilized for the storage of tires shall be
equipped throughout with an automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with
section 903.3.1.1.
Subsection 903.2.10 Group S-2 Enclosed Parking Garages (page 145, delete entire
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as enclosed parking garages.
Subsection 903.2.10.1 Commercial Parking Garages (page 145, add to subsection
and delete second line)
   Delete: Second line ... "where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square feet (464
square meters)."
Subsection 903.2.11 Specific Building Areas and Hazards (page 145, delete
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: In all occupancies an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be
installed for specific building design or hazards in all locations.
Section [F] 903.3 Installation Requirements (page 148, add to end of section)
   Add: Fire sprinkler protection shall be provided at all exterior balconies,
decks and ground level patios of dwelling units and sleeping units for all Use
Group R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 buildings.
Subsection [F] 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and Decks (page 148, delete conditions 1
and 2)
   Delete: Conditions 1. and 2.
Subsection [F] 903.3.5.1 Domestic Services (page 149, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Domestic water services and associated shut-off valves shall be
separate from the water supply for the automatic sprinkler system and shall be
separated on the outside of the building or structure being served with
separate identified exterior shut-off valves, unless otherwise approved by the
building official.
Subsection 903.4.1 Electronic supervision (page 150, delete first paragraph of
subsection and insert new paragraph)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to a central stations or remote supervisory
stations by a one- way private radio alarm system complying with chapter 26 of
the 2010 edition of NFPA 72 which manually or automatically retransmit trouble,
supervisory and full fire alarm signals.
Subsection 903.4.2 Monitoring (page 150, delete first paragraph of subsection
and insert new paragraph)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to central stations or remote supervisory
stations by an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which manually or
automatically retransmit trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm signals to
DuPage Public Safety Communications (Du-Comm) or other method of notification
as directed by the local Fire Protection District.
Subsection 903.4.3 Alarms (page 150, add to the end of subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside UL Listed weather tight visual device over the fire
department sprinkler bell and connection. This device shall be equipped with a
blue lens. The strobe shall activate and stop with water flow.
Subsection 903.4.3.1 Alarm Indicating Appliances (page 150, add new subsection)
   Add: All sprinkled buildings shall be provided with fire alarm occupant
notification in accordance with section 907.5. Existing buildings shall be
required to bring any deficient areas up to code upon any building additions or
alterations excluding cosmetic only alterations, subject to Director of
Building and Zoning and Fire Code Official approval.
Subsection 903.4.3.2 Alarms Indicating Appliances (page 150, add new
subsection)
   Add: Fire sprinkler system inspector's valves shall be located most remote
from the riser and shall be accessible at all times and located no more than 6
feet above the finished floor and remotely located. On multiple riser systems
test valves shall be marked as to which riser and area it tests.
Subsection 903.4.3.3 Valve Monitoring (page 150, add new subsection)
   Add: Installation in multiple story buildings; floor control valves with
water flow switches shall be provided for each floor.
Subsection 903.4.4 Automatic Sprinklers (page 150, add new subsection)
   Add: Where automatic sprinklers provide protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the fire district having authority may require
additional smoke detectors for a more rapid means to identify the location of
smoke or fire.
Subsection 903.7 Speculative Buildings (page 150, Automatic Sprinkler Systems,
insert new subsection)
   Insert: 903.7 Speculative Buildings. Automatic sprinklers in speculative
buildings shall be hydraulically designed for the storage of class IV
commodities, as defined by NFPA 231, to the maximum available storage height in
the building. The maximum available storage height in a building is the clear
height dimension between the finished floor and the median point between the
bottom of the high and low points of the structural members supporting the roof
assembly. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the
latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.8 Hydraulic Calculations (page 150, add new subsection)
   Add: A minimum of 10% or 5 psi (whichever is greater) minimum safety factor
shall be provided in the fire protection system hydraulic calculations. The
system demand shall be 5 psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test
supply.
   Each hydraulically calculated area, on each drawing, shall be provided with
a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
Subsection 903.9 Fire Pump Test Ports (Page 150, add new subsection)
   Add: An OS&Y control valve shall be located on all fire pump test headers.
All fire pumps installations shall provide an outside test header.
Subsection 903.10 Fire Pump & Sprinkler Control Rooms (page 150, add new
subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside access door to the sprinkler riser valve room and
fire pump room. This room shall also be equipped with an interior access door
that swings in the direction of egress. Egress door(s) shall be equipped with
panic hardware.
Subsection 903.11 Fire Pump Room Rating (page 150, add section to read as
follows)
   Add: All fire pump rooms shall be a minimum 2-hour U.L. rated enclosure. All
fire pump rooms shall be provided with an approved doorway from the outside and
a door from the room to the interior of the structure. Impact protection may be
required where fire pump room walls are subject to damage.
Subsection 903.11.1 Fire Sprinkler Room Identification (Page 150, add new
subsection)
   Add: Fire sprinkler rooms located in new or existing multi-tenant buildings
shall be labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire
Sprinkler Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection 905.3 Standpipe Systems - Required Installations (page 154, Required
Installations, add to end of subsection, line 2)
   Add: The size of all standpipe fire department connections shall be two and
one-half inches (2 ½") in diameter and shall be national standard thread. Fire
communication jacks shall be provided at all fire department standpipe
connection locations and shall be tied into the building communication system.
Siamese connections for standpipe and sprinkler systems shall be located no
further than ten feet (10') apart and shall be readily accessible. Public water
supplies, when used for the hydraulic design of sprinkler and standpipe
systems, shall be adjusted to ninety percent (90%) of the actual recorded test
results. At stairwells, hose connections are required at both sides of
stairwell doors, one connection inside the stairwell and one connection outside
the stairwell.
Subsection 905.3.1 Standpipe Systems - Height (pages 154 and 155, Height,
change building height regulations on lines 3 and 5, and delete all exceptions)
   Change: "30 feet (9144 mm) above" to "15 feet (4572 mm) above" and change
"30 feet (9144 mm) below" to "15 feet (4572 mm) below".
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection 905.7 Cabinets (page 156, Standpipe Systems, add to end of
paragraph)
   Add: Cabinets as required shall be mounted on the floor side of stairwell
doors.
Subsection 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures (Page 160, add
to end of second paragraph)
   Add: All fire alarm control panels shall be installed near the fire
department sprinkler risers with a fully functioning remote annunciator panel
located within 10 feet of the main entrance at a location approved by the fire
code official having jurisdiction. The remote annunciator panel shall be
capable of alarm silence and reset. Code access type fire alarm panels are not
permitted.
   Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Use Group M in areas
of the building that are normally accessible to the public where the building
is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system and the alarm
notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow.
   Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory Stations by
an approved AES or similar mesh network radio which manually or automatically
retransmit trouble, supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public
Safety Communications (Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
   Exceptions:
   3.   Underground gate valves with roadway boxes.
Subsection 907.2.1 Group A (page 160, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group A
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete:
Exception 1.
Subsection 907.2.2 Group B (page 161, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group B
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete:
Exception.
Subsection 907.2.3 Group E (pages 161 and 162, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group all E occupancies shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 907.2.4 Group F (page 162, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group F
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete:
Exception.
Subsection 907.2.5 Group H (page 162, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group H
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. An automatic
smoke detection system shall be installed for highly toxic gases, organic
peroxides and oxidizers in accordance with Chapters 60, 62 and 63.
Subsection 907.2.6 Group I (pages 162 and 163, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group I
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 907.2.7 Group M (page 163, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group M
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete:
Exceptions 1 and 2.
Subsection 907.2.8 Group R-1 (page 163, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group R-
1 occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72
as regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete: All
exceptions.
Subsection 907.2.9 Group R-2 (page 164, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group R-
2 occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72
as regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Delete: All
exceptions.
Subsection 907.2.10 Group S (page 164, delete and insert new subsection)
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group S
occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 907.2.10.1 Public and self-storage occupancies (page 164, delete and
insert new subsection)
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group S
public and self-storage occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection district having
jurisdiction. Visible notification appliances are not required within the
storage units. Delete exception.
Subsection 907.2.24 Group R-3 (page 167, insert new subsection)
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group R-
3 occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72
as regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 907.2.25 Group R-4 (page 167, insert new subsection)
   Insert: A manual fire alarm system that activates the occupant notification
system in accordance with Section 907.5 shall be installed in all group R-
4 occupancies and shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72
as regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 907.6.2 Power Supply (page 170, add to end of paragraph)
   Add: Secondary power shall provide a minimum of 60 hours. All fire alarm
one-way radio systems shall be equipped with 60 hours of battery back-up.
Subsection 907.6.4.3 Zone Disconnects (page 170, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Subsection 907.6.4.3 Zone Disconnects. All fire alarm systems shall
be capable of zoned disconnects at the control panel. Disconnection of a zone
shall cause the fire alarm system to transmit a trouble signal.
Subsection 907.6.4.4 Multi-Zone (page 170, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Multi-tenant buildings will be "ring by tenant" and shall include
weather tight clear outside strobe lights over the entrance to each tenant
space as directed by the Fire Code Official. All outside strobes shall provide
a minimum of 75 candelas.
Subsection 907.6.6 Monitoring (page 171, delete part of subsection and insert)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: All required fire alarm systems other than fire suppression systems
shall be connected to an approved remote station system in accordance with NFPA
72.
Subsection 907.11 Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Rooms (page 171, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Multi-tenant fire alarm and sprinkler system room doors shall be
labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire Sprinkler / Fire
Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection 907.12 Private Wireless Radio Alarm Systems (page 171, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory
Stations an approved AES or similar mesh network radio, which manually or
automatically retransmit trouble, supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to
DuPage Public Safety Communications (Du-Comm).
Subsection 910.2 Smoke and Heat Removal - Where required (page 139, add to end
of subsection paragraph, delete exceptions)
   Add: Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with a mechanical smoke
exhaust system in all occupancies of groups A, B, E, F, H, I, M and S having
more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor area. All key
switches shall be "Knox Box" style keyed to the fire protection district having
jurisdiction. Key switches shall be located in the building fire pump /
sprinkler riser room, or at the FACP. Mechanical smoke exhaust system shall be
manually operated only and are not permitted to be tied to the building fire
alarm system unless approved by the authority having jurisdiction.
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection 910.2.1 Groups F-1 or S-1 (page 180, delete entire subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Groups F or S. Buildings and portions thereof used as a group F or S
occupancy having more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor
area.
Subsection [BE]1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and Common Path of Egress
Travel Distance (page 198, add to subsection)
   Add: 3. The length of common path of egress travel in occupancies in group
B, F and S shall not be more than 100 feet (30,480 mm) for common truck docks
which are provided and separated from other occupancies by 1-hour fire-
resistance rated assemblies, and that are entirely protected throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.3.1.1.
   Add: 4. Where shared truck dock facilities are provided in Group B, S and F
occupancies in multiple tenant buildings, two exits or exit access doorways
from the space shall be provided.
Subsection [BE] 1009.1 Accessible Means of Egress Required (page 203, add to
end of subsection and delete exception no. 1.)
   Add: Accessible means of egress shall comply with the current version of the
Illinois accessibility code.
   Delete: Exception no.1.
Subsection [BE] 1010.1.2.1 Direction of Swing (page 207, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: All exterior doors, doors accessing an exit enclosure, and all doors
serving group H occupancy shall swing in the direction of egress travel and be
provided with an approved automatic door closer.
Subsection [BE] 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches (pages 208 and 209, delete numbers
3, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3)
   Delete: Numbers 3, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3.
Subsection [BE] 1015.4 Guards - Opening Limitations (page 224, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or other
ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
Table [BE] 1020.1 Corridor Fire-Resistance Rating (page 229, change hour
ratings in [BE] table 1020.2)
   Change: All occupancies without sprinkler systems are "not permitted" in the
third column in coordination with section 903.2, which as amended by this
ordinance requires all buildings to be equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 where allowed.
   Change: All occupancies with sprinkler systems are to have 1-hour corridor
fire-resistance rating in the fourth column, with no reductions in fire-
resistance allowed. Exit corridors serving fire-resistance rated stairwells
shall have the same fire-resistance rating as the stairwell.
Subsection [BE] 1023.12 Smoke-Proof Enclosures (page 233, add "and pressurized"
after "smoke proof" in line 2)
   Add: "and pressurized" after "smoke proof" in line 2.
Subsection 1101.2 Intent (page 248, add to subsection)
   Add: Compliance with the current edition of the Illinois accessibility code
is required.
Subsection 1104.2 Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walks (page 255, add to end
of paragraph)
   Add: Elevator and conveying systems shall be in conformance with state of
Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulation act (225 ILCS 312/
140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator and
conveying systems shall comply with following standards and guidelines, unless
updated:
   1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-10)
and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators, and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2010).
   3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
   4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2008).
   5.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
   6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
   7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3
and 4, 2008.
Subsection 5003.4.1 (page 427, Material Safety Data Sheets, new subsection)
   Add: Where Required: The owner shall submit to the village building
commissioner a material safety data sheet for each hazardous material or
substance on the premises. The material safety data sheet shall include the
following information:
   a. Manufacturer's name, address and emergency telephone number.
   b. Chemical name and synonyms; trade names and hazardous ingredients.
   c. Physical data; reactivity data.
   d. Fire and explosion data.
   e. Health hazard data.
   f. Special protection information and special precautions.
   g. Spill or leak cleanup procedures.
Subsection 5003.4.2 (page 427, Material Safety Data Sheets, new subsection)
   Add: Occupancies identified by the fire protection district shall install
one or more hazardous materials information safes approved by the fire
protection district. This safe shall contain all information as required in
section 5003.4.1. The safe shall be mounted in a location approved by the fire
prevention district.
Subsection 5003.5 (page 428, Hazard Identification Signs, Location, third
sentence)
   Delete: "in quantities requiring a permit and".
Subsection 5003.5.1 (page 428, Hazard Identification Signs, Markings, addition)
   Add: Rooms, cabinets and outside storage areas shall be labeled in
accordance with NFPA 704 listed in chapter 80. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016)
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads (pages 591 through 593, add sections as
mandatory regulations)
   Add: Sections D101, D102, D103, D104, D105, D106, D107 and D108 as mandatory
regulations. (Ord. 25-02, 4-1-2025)
8-8-3: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain buildings and premises in
the Village of Wayne in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a penalty of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day that a
violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate
offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such
other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this
chapter, including, without limitation, an administrative adjudication pursuant
to Section
1-4-5 of the Village Code, or an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
section shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees and any such penalties,
costs, fees and other expenses incurred by the Village shall constitute a lien
against the subject real property and fixtures until the Village is fully
reimbursed. (Ord. 16-05, 6-7-2016; amd. Ord. 20-03, 4-21-2020; Ord. 24-02, 4-1-
2025)
CHAPTER 9
STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Comprehensive Revision Adopted
8-9-1: COMPREHENSIVE REVISION ADOPTED:
   A.   Applicability Of County Ordinance In Village: The Village hereby adopts
and incorporates by reference as if fully set forth herein the comprehensive
revision to the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
adopted by the County Board of the County of DuPage on May 14, 2019, except as
otherwise expressly provided herein. Three (3) copies of the DuPage County
Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance shall be maintained for public
use and inspection in the Office of the Village Clerk and in the Building and
Zoning Department.
   B.   Modifications: The DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain
Ordinance as herein incorporated by reference is hereby modified in the
following respects:
      1.   Section 15-28.A - Amend by deleting the words "one foot above" and
in lieu thereof insert the words "two feet above".
      2.   Section 15-28.B - Amend by deleting the words "one foot above" and
in lieu thereof insert the words "two feet above".
      3.   Section 15-54.B.1.b - Amend by deleting the words "one hundred ten
percent (110%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "one hundred twenty
percent (120%)".
      4.   Section 15-54.B.3 - Amend by deleting the words "ninety percent
(90%)" and "ten percent (10%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "eighty
percent (80%)" and "twenty percent (20%)", respectively.
      5.   Section 15-54.C.1a - Amend by deleting the words "one hundred ten
percent (110%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "one hundred twenty
percent (120%)".
      6.   Section 15-54.D.1.b - Amend by deleting in two locations the words
"one hundred ten percent (110%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "one
hundred twenty percent (120%)".
      7.   Section 15-54.D.3 - Amend by deleting the words "one hundred ten
percent (110%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "one hundred twenty
percent (120%)".
      8.   Section 15-54.D.4 - Amend by deleting the words "ninety percent
(90%)" and "ten percent (10%)" and in lieu thereof insert the words "eighty
percent (80%)" and "twenty percent (20%)", respectively.
      9.   15-71.A - Amend by adding the sentence "Minor stormwater systems
shall be designed to carry the 10-year storm."
      10.   Section 15-80.F - Delete the words "Exhibit 2" and in lieu thereof
insert the words "Exhibit A".
      11.   15-80.H - Amend by deleting the words "one foot" and in lieu
thereof insert the words "two feet".
      12.   Section 15-98 - Amend by adding Section 15-98.C.1 that states "The
Village of Wayne shall receive all Post Construction BMP Fee-in-Lieu payments
and shall manage, account for, and expend the funds in accordance with Section
15-98.B of this Ordinance."
      13.   Appendix A - Amend the definition of Flood Protection Elevation
(FPE) by deleting the words "one foot" and inserting the words "two feet."
      14.   Appendix A - Amend the definition of FIRM by deleting the words
"Exhibit 2" and in lieu thereof insert the words "Exhibit A"
      15.   Appendix A - Amend the definition of FIS by deleting the words
"Exhibit 2" and in lieu thereof insert the words "Exhibit A"
      16.   All General Certifications as adopted by the DuPage County Board,
and as amended and added to from time to time, are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2019-04, 6-4-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
   C.   Exhibit:
EXHIBIT A
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDIES AND MAPS
REV. 2021
1 DuPage County FIS                Date August 1, 2019
2 Kane County   FIS                Date July 20, 2021
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0007J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0009J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0017J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0028J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0029J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0036J  Date August 1, 2019
1 FIRM          Panel 17043C0037J  Date August 1, 2019
2 FIRM          Panel 170865C0256H Date August 3, 2009
2 FIRM          Panel 170865C0258H Date August 3, 2009
2 FIRM          Panel 170865C0260H Date August 3, 2009
2 FIRM          Panel 170865C0266I Date July 20, 2021
1 To be used for properties in DuPage County.
2 To be used for properties in Kane County.
 
FIS - Flood Insurance Study
FIRM - Flood Insurance Rate Map
(Ord. 2021-09, 5-18-2021)
CHAPTER 10
VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Village Vacant Or Abandoned Buildings And Structures Code
8-10-2: Purpose And Scope
8-10-3: Application And Interpretation Of Regulations
8-10-4: Definitions
8-10-5: Determination Of Vacant Or Abandoned Buildings Or Structures
8-10-6: Registration Of Vacant Or abandoned Buildings Or Structures
8-10-7: Abatement Provisions, Buildings Or Structures
8-10-8: Right Of Entry And Inspection
8-10-9: Nuisance Abatement Provisions
8-10-10: Means Of Appeal
8-10-11: Penalties
8-10-1: VILLAGE VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES CODE:
This chapter, including any and all regulations adopted hereunder, shall
hereinafter be referred to and cited as the "Vacant or Abandoned Buildings and
Structures Code". (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public life, health, safety and
welfare, to insure against the potential hazards of inadequate, defective or
unsafe vacant or abandoned buildings and structures. The regulations adopted
hereunder establish a program for identification, registration and regulation
of buildings or structures which are or become vacant or abandoned on and after
the effective date of these regulations. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS:
The building department shall be charged with the enforcement of these
regulations, and the director of building and zoning shall be known as the code
enforcement official charged with the application, interpretation, and
implementation of these regulations. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-4: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED BUILDING or STRUCTURE: Any single or multi-tenant building or
structure that has been unoccupied for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days
and any of the following conditions exist:
   1.   Open to uninvited entry or trespass;
   2.   Damaged by fire, flood, weather, or vandalism to an extent which
prohibits safe occupancy;
   3.   Is the site of loitering or vagrancy;
   4.   Is the site of unlawful criminal or quasi-criminal activity;
   5.   Lack of property maintenance and upkeep as evidenced by one or more
violations of the Village Property Maintenance Code, Fire Code, or Zoning
Regulations;
   6.   Under notice for being in violation of Village Code(s);
   7.   Boarded up for at least thirty (30) days;
   8.   Outstanding bills, invoices or fees in arrears to the Village for a
period of time exceeding three hundred sixty-five (365) days;
   9.   Utilities are disconnected or not in use;
   10.   Not actively for sale or rent;
   11.   Under condemnation notice or legal order to vacate;
   12.   Structurally unsound;
   13.   Potential hazard or danger to persons.
      Exception: Not to include abandoned buildings or structures that are
actively under construction, rehabilitation or renovation, and in compliance
with Village Code. Not to include multi-tenant buildings or structures where
are at least 50% of the square footage of the building or structure is
occupied.
VACANT BUILDING or STRUCTURE: Any single or multi-tenant building 01'
structure, or portion thereof, that has been unoccupied for a period of ninety
(90) consecutive days, no violation(s) of Village Code, and any of the
following conditions exist:
   1.   All lawful residential 01' business activity has ceased, including lack
of contents;
   2.   Actively for sale or rent;
   3.   Actively a foreclosure, Sheriff sale, or up for auction;
      Exception: Not to include vacant unoccupied buildings or structures that
are actively under construction, rehabilitation or renovation, and in
compliance with Village Code, or residences where the owner/occupant is
temporarily absent and has notified the Village police department of such
extended absence. Not to include multi-tenant buildings or structures where are
at least 50% of the square footage of the building or structure is occupied.
(Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-5: DETERMINATION OF VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The director of building and zoning, or his or her designee, shall evaluate
buildings and structures within the Village to determine compliance with
regulations contained herein. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-6: REGISTRATION OF VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Registration Form: The owner(s) of a vacant or abandoned building or
structure shall register with the Village and provide information on a Vacant
or Abandoned Building Registration form provided by the Village, and pay the
required registration fee. The registration fee is an annual non-prorated fee.
   B.   Registration Fees: Registration fee of $200.00 is due at time of
registration submittal to the director of building and zoning for review. This
fee has been established to support services rendered by the Village in the
course of its duties related to monitoring and acting upon vacant or abandoned
buildings or structures. Failure to register a vacant or abandoned building or
structure as required shall be cause for penalty in the amount of one hundred
percent (100%) of the unpaid registration fee, in addition, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation, Unpaid fees and assessed fines
shall be a lien upon the property. Registration of a vacant or abandoned
building or structure shall not preclude the Village from taking necessary
action on a building or structure to make safe, including demolition. (Ord. 20-
02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-7: ABATEMENT PROVISIONS, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Conditions: If any building or structure has become dangerous to life,
limb or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration,
or damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the same
unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the director of building and zoning, if and when he shall find
any such conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a
nuisance and shall condemn the same, and no person: firm or corporation shall
occupy, rent, lease or use such building or other structure with or without
compensation. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute
a misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by
section
1-4-1 of the village code.
   B.   Notice of Unsafe Building or Condemnation - Notices and Orders:
Whenever the director of building and zoning shall condemn and declare any
building or other structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary
condition thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the
owner or owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the
holder or holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any,
ordering and directing said building or other structure to be put in a safe or
sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be
effected by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by
registered mail directed to the person involved, at his last address known to
the director of building and zoning or available to him upon examination of the
records of the county treasurer and county clerk of DuPage or Kane County,
Illinois, and by posting a copy thereof upon the premises subject to such
condemnation.
   C.   Notice of Unsafe Building or Condemnation - Notices and Orders Method
of Service: Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner
if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the
notice at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of
the age of 13 years or upwards, who shall be informed of the contents thereof,
provided that the person making service shall also mail a copy of the notice
with postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner at his or her usual place of
abode; or by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last
known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered
letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by
posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice, or at least one publication of such notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation.
   D.   Reconstruction or Removal: Rebuilding, restoration or removal must
begin within five (5) days of condemnation notice. Any building or structure
condemned and declared to be a nuisance by the director of building and zoning
shall be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed.
Within five (5) days after the service of notice in the manner and form
provided, to make such building or structure safe or sanitary or to remove and
demolish the same, the owner or owners or the party or patties interested
therein shall proceed to begin the work of making said building or structure
safe or sanitary or the work of removing and demolishing the same and shall
prosecute said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a completion
thereof; provided, however, that should the owner or person in possession of
said building or structure deem himself aggrieved by any direction to repair or
remove such building or other structure alleged by the director of building and
zoning to be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after the
giving of the notice, have the right to appeal in writing from the judgment of
the director of building and zoning to the zoning board of appeals, which board
shall make the investigation and report its findings to the village board. If
in the judgment of the village board upon consideration of the report of the
zoning board of appeals, said building or structure is unsafe or unsanitary and
should be declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in
possession thereof to forthwith begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of
demolishing and removing said building or structure. After demolition, the
premises shall be maintained free from all unsafe and hazardous conditions.
Removal of all underground and in-ground structures is required. Restoration of
established grades is required to insure proper lot drainage in compliance with
village engineering regulations.
   E.   Noncompliance with Notice of Unsafe Buildings: Upon the failure of the
owners of said building or other structure, or the party or parties interested
therein, within five (5) days after the service of the notice to begin the work
of making safe or sanitary or of removing and demolishing said building or
other structure, or upon the failure of the owner or owners or the party or
parties interested therein after beginning such work to proceed continuously
without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the village may take any
action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such structure, or may
proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the same in a penal
action before the Village of Wayne Administrative Adjudication Court or the 1
8th Circuit Court for the violation(s) of the provisions of this ordinance. The
village may also, in its discretion, cause the said structure to be secured to
prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public, or
removed in its entirety after the failure, within the time hereinabove provided
for, to restore the same to a safe condition.
   F.   Failure to Comply with Demolition Order: Whenever the owner of a
property fails to comply with a demolition order within the time period
prescribed, the director of building and zoning shall immediately report such
failure to comply to the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may
demolish, or cause the demolition of dangerous and unsafe buildings or
uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the village by applying to the 18th
Circuit Court for an order authorizing such action to be taken with respect to
any such building if the owner or owners thereof, including the lien holders of
record) after at least 15 days written notice by mail to do so, have failed to
demolish it. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the
owner or owners of any such building including the lien holders of record is
not ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such
real estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this subsection. The
cost of such demolition incurred by the Village of Wayne, including court
costs, attorneys' fees and other costs related to the enforcement of this
subsection is recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and is a
lien thereon, which lien is superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes. Within sixty (60) days after such demolition, the
Village of Wayne shall file notice of lien of such cost and expense incurred in
the office of the county recorder. The notice must consist of a sworn statement
setting out (1) a description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof, (2) the amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred,
and (3) the date or dates when the cost and expense was incurred by the Village
or by the lien holder of record. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the
owner or persons interested in the property after notice of lien has been
filed, the lien shall be released by the Village and the release may be filed
of record as in the case of filing a notice of lien. Where the dangerous
condition of a structure is deemed by the corporate authorities, upon
recommendation of the code official to constitute an imminent and immediate
danger to human life, the Village may promptly raze or remove said structure or
a portion thereof which has been deemed to cause such a danger in accord with
applicable laws and procedures. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Right of Entry: In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of
the public, the director of building and zoning is authorized to attempt to
obtain consent to enter at any reasonable time from any owner, occupant, or
other person in charge of a building, structure or property subject to this
code for the purpose of making inspections and performing duties under this
code. Such owner, occupant, or other person in charge shall be informed that
entry by the director of building and zoning is sought for the purpose of
making inspection and performing duties under this code. Failure to give
consent to entry under this section shall not be punishable by fine or
imprisonment.
   B.   Search Warrant in Absence of Consent: If the director of building and
zoning, after a reasonable attempt to obtain consent, does not receive consent
to enter a building, structure or property subject to the code as described
herein, the director of building and zoning may seek in the 18th Circuit Court
a search warrant. An owner, occupant or other person in charge of a building,
structure or property subject to the provisions of this code, who is presented
with a search warrant obtained pursuant to this code, shall not refuse, impede,
inhibit, interfere with, restrict, or obstruct entry and free access to any
part of the structure or premises where an inspection authorized by the search
warrant is sought to be made.
   C.   Procurement of Search Warrants: A search warrant sought pursuant to
this code shall be sought in the 18th Circuit Court. The court may consider any
of the following factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in
its decision as to whether a warrant shall be issued:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation.
      2.   Citizen complaints.
      3.   Tenant complaints.
      4.   Plain view violations.
      5.   Violations apparent from village records.
      6.   Property deterioration.
      7.   Age of property.
      8.   Nature of alleged violation.
      9.   Similar properties in the area.
      10.   Documented violations on similar properties in the area.
      11.   Passage of time since last inspection.
      12.   Previous violations on the property.
   D.   Re-occupancy of Abandoned Residential Building or Structure: No
abandoned residential building or structure shall be re-occupied until it has
been inspected and found to be in full compliance with all applicable Village
codes and ordinances and is approved by the director of building and zoning,
all fees are paid in full, and all other conditions set forth in this code are
satisfactorily complete.
   E.   Occupancy Inspection: No building or part thereof, hereafter erected,
or the structure of which shall hereafter be altered or repaired and for which
erection, alteration or repair a permit shall be required as provided in the
village code, and no existing building in which the character of the occupancy
is to be changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the director of building and
zoning. Such certificate shall carry the certification of the director of
building and zoning that said building or part thereof conforms to the
requirements of this and any other applicable village code or ordinance, and
that said building, construction, alteration, or repair has been substantially
completed in accordance with plans and specifications upon which a building
permit required by village code was issued.
   F.   New Occupancy in Existing Non-Residential Space: No property, premises,
building or tenant space within a non-residential building or structure shall
be occupied or reoccupied without first having been inspected by the village
building department and the appropriate fire protection district to insure
compliance with public health, safety and any other applicable village code or
ordinance requirements. This verification of compliance is to be initiated
through a building permit application for an occupancy inspection.
   G.   Change in Use - Occupancy Certificate Requirements: No building upon
which a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued shall be used for a
different classification or group occupancy until a certificate of occupancy
for such different use shall have been issued by the director of building and
zoning; provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy shall be issued in
any event unless the occupancy or use of the building complies with the zoning
law. "Change of occupancy" is not intended to mean change of tenant or
proprietor, provided the new tenant is to occupy the building for a purpose,
which would not involve its reclassification into a different occupancy group.
(Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-9: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice of Violation; Failure to Comply; Abatement by Village: Any owner
and/or occupant of real estate located within the village upon which a nuisance
or violation as indicated by this chapter exists shall be sent or served a
notice stating the specific violation. If the violation has not been corrected
within seven (7) days after receiving the notice, a citation will be issued by
the village for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed on each day which a violation continues to occur. A court order
will then be sought to allow the village, or a duly authorized contractor, to
enter upon the property to abate the nuisance. The village will also seek
reimbursement for abatement of the nuisance by court order.
   B.   Costs and Liens:
      1.   Any costs incurred by the village or a duly authorized contractor in
abating a nuisance, violation or any other charge imposed by the village under
this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate in question as authorized
under the Illinois municipal code and shall be superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after such
cost and expense is incurred, the village, or a contractor performing such
services as authorized by the village, in his or in its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice shall consist of a
sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof; b) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred or payable for the service; and c) the date or dates when such
cost and expense was incurred by the village. The lien shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
the weed cutting or property maintenance actions by the village and prior to
the filing of the notice of lien. The lien shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose right in and to such real
estate arises prior to the filing of the notice.
      2.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or other persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-10: MEANS OF APPEAL:
Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the Director of
Building and Zoning to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Means of appeal shall
follow the requirements set forth in Section
2-3-5 of the Village Code. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
8-10-11: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation. (Ord. 20-02, 4-12-2020)
TITLE 9
HISTORIC AND RURAL PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 1
HISTORIC SITES COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-1-1: Commission Created
9-1-2: Appointment Of Members
9-1-3: Meetings
9-1-4: Jurisdiction And Authority
9-1-5: Appendix I, Rules For Public Participation
9-1-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established a historic sites commission for the village. Said
commission shall consist of seven (7) members. Each member so appointed shall
serve for a term of four (4) years or the remainder of a term of any member
being replaced, whichever is less. All persons appointed shall serve until a
successor is appointed and qualified. As hereafter provided, one member shall
serve as chairman. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, this
section shall not in any way affect the terms of the current members of the
commission. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
9-1-2: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Generally: The village president shall make all appointments to the
historic sites commission and to the position of chairman, subject to the
approval of the village board of trustees.
   B.   Qualifications: Members of the historic sites commission shall be
appointed on the basis of demonstrated expertise, experience or interest in the
areas of anthropology, architecture, art, building construction, engineering,
finance, historical and architectural preservation, history, law, neighborhood
organizing, planning or real estate.
   C.   Chairman: The member appointed to the position of chairman shall be so
appointed to such position for a term of one year.
   D.   Removal: The village president, subject to approval by the village
board of trustees, shall have the power to remove, after a public hearing, any
member of the historic sites commission for cause. Failure to attend three (3)
successive meetings of the board shall constitute sufficient cause for removal.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for the
unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant. In the event that
the office of the chairman is vacated for any reason, the village president
shall immediately appoint either one of the remaining members on the
commission, or any member who is appointed to fill such vacancy on the
commission as the new chairman. Such appointment shall be subject to the
approval of the village board of trustees at its next regular meeting. (Ord.
01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-1-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Procedures:
      1.   Time: All meetings shall be held at regularly scheduled times, at
the call of the chairman, or at such other times as the historic sites
commission may determine 1 .
      2.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the commission shall constitute a
quorum.
      3.   Open To Public: All meetings of the historic sites commission shall
be open to the public, at which time every person has the right to be heard or
to be represented by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
      4.   Conflict Of Interest: Any member of the commission having a
pecuniary or personal interest in any matter coming before the commission shall
disclose such interest to the other members. Such interest shall be made a
matter of record, and may be deemed a disqualifying interest. Any member of the
historic sites commission belonging to any religious, philanthropic, fraternal,
charitable, social or other not for profit organization shall not be deemed to
have a pecuniary or personal interest therein solely by reason of membership in
such organization, but shall disclose such membership to the other members of
the historic sites commission, and such membership shall be made a matter of
record. No member shall thereby be disqualified from voting or participating on
any matter affecting such organization unless the member shall also be an
officer or director of such organization, in which case such interest shall be
deemed a disqualifying interest. Any member having a disqualifying interest
shall not speak on such matter, shall not vote or in any way use personal
influence on such matter, and shall not be counted in determining a quorum for
consideration of such matter.
      5.   Records: The historic sites commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote, absence, or failure to vote of each member upon
every question, and shall also keep records of its other official actions.
Every order, requirement, decision or determination of the commission shall
immediately be filed in the office of the village clerk and shall be a public
record. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
   B.   Voting: The concurrent vote of a simple majority of those present and
constituting a quorum shall be required for the historic sites commission to
render a decision provided however, the commission shall not deny a certificate
of appropriateness except by affirmative vote of majority of all members of the
historic sites commission then appointed. (Ord. 04-05, 4-20-2004)
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The historic sites commission shall adopt and
publish in pamphlet form rules of procedure for the conduct of its business.
Such rules of procedure shall be subject to approval of the village board and
shall not be inconsistent with any of the provisions of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  1-5-2E of this code.
9-1-4: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The historic sites commission shall have the following jurisdiction and
authority:
   A.   To recommend to the village board areas to be designated historic
districts, or additions to previously designated historic districts.
   B.   To consider and grant or deny certificates of appropriateness for all
construction, demolition or alterations of any exterior feature of any landmark
building, structure or site, or of any building, structure or site improvement
within a historic district.
   C.   To review and submit findings and recommendations to the plan
commission and village board on applications for allowable special uses and for
zoning text amendments affecting a historic district.
   D.   To review and submit findings and recommendations to the zoning board
of appeals on applications for authorized variations affecting a historic
district.
   E.   To inform the residents of Wayne concerning the history and
architecture of the village.
   F.   To hear and decide all matters referred to it or which it is required
to consider by the zoning ordinance of this code or this title, and to exercise
all further responsibilities which may be given to it by the village board.
   G.   To recommend to the village board any additional measures to protect
those portions of the village that have significant historic, architectural or
aesthetic features.
   H.   To represent the village by attending at least one informational or
educational meeting per year, approved by the state historic preservation
officer, pertaining to the work and functions of the historic sites commission
or to historic preservation.
   I.   To transmit an annual report of its activities to the state historic
preservation officer including the number of cases reviewed, new designations
made, progress and survey activities, resumes for new commission members,
attendance records, and documentation for educational and informational
meetings. Such reports shall be transmitted within sixty (60) days after the
end of each fiscal year.
   J.   To monitor and notify the state historic preservation officer of any
actual or proposed demolition or actual or proposed major alteration affecting
any property in its jurisdiction listed in the Illinois Register of Historic
Places or the National Register of Historic Places, which have been provided to
the commission and elected local officials by such officer.
   K.   To maintain a system to survey and inventory historic properties, in a
manner consistent with, coordinated with, and complementary to those of the
state. All such inventories shall be securely maintained and accessible to the
public. All such inventories shall be updated periodically to reflect changes,
alterations and demolitions. There shall be a building by building survey and
inventory for each designated historic district.
   L.   To receive funds from federal, state and private sources for deposit in
a separate account of the village to be referred to as the preservation fund,
which fund shall only be loaned or expended by the historic sites commission,
with the approval of the village board, for such purposes as are herein set
forth. If the commission is dissolved, then any amounts remaining in the fund
shall be applied by the village to further the purposes of this chapter. If any
amounts remain in the fund after a period of one year following the
commission's dissolution, then such funds may be applied by the village for
such general purposes as it may deem appropriate, unless received pursuant to
subsection
9-2-1C of this title.
   M.   To hold public hearings and recommend designation of landmarks to the
village board.
   N.   To compile information and prepare descriptions of the landmarks or
historic districts identified and recommended for designation, including the
characteristics of each which meet the standards for designation. (Ord. 01-18,
12-4-2001)
9-1-5: APPENDIX I, RULES FOR PUBLIC PARTICIPATION:
   APPENDIX I
   A.   General:
      1.   Statutory Authorization For Rules: The open meetings act 1  provides
that, effective January 1, 2011, any person shall be permitted an opportunity
to address the historic commission (the "commission") under rules established
by the commission. The portions of these rules relating to public participation
are promulgated pursuant thereto.
      2.   Right To Speak: All persons wishing to address the commission may do
so subject to compliance with these rules, unless compliance is waived by the
commission.
      3.   Public Participation; Applicability Of Rules:
         a.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Applies: The right of the
public to address the commission and these rules shall apply at the following
meetings:
            (1)   Regular meetings of the commission that are open to the
public; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission that are open to the
public if the agenda provides for public comment.
         b.   Meetings At Which Public Participation Does Not Apply: The public
shall have no right to address the commission at the following meetings:
            (1)   Those meetings or portions of meetings of the commission
(whether regular or special meetings) that are closed to the public in
accordance with the open meetings act; and
            (2)   Special meetings of the commission that are open to the
public if the agenda does not provide for public comment.
   B.   Procedures:
      1.   Compliance: It shall be a violation of these rules for any person to
address or attempt to address any meeting of the commission except in
compliance with limitations and restrictions imposed in these rules. Public
participation shall be permitted at commission meetings as follows:
         a.   Under public comment if such an item appears on the agenda.
         b.   At the time of the commission's discussion of any item that
appears on the agenda at a time designated for such comment by the chairperson.
         c.   At the time designated or requested by the chairperson for
invited speakers.
      2.   Limitations: The chairperson of the commission may impose reasonable
limitations on public participation at the commission meetings to allow for
consideration of the entire agenda, and to assure that all who wish to speak
have an opportunity to do so and are treated with respect. Unless extended for
a time certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission, the
following limitations shall apply, and the chairperson reserves the right to
halt or suspend the public participation to a later date if the rules are not
being followed:
         a.   In general, all speakers shall be limited to no more than three
(3) minutes.
         b.   The chairperson may bar repetitious, irrelevant, immaterial, or
inappropriate comments or testimony.
         c.   Persons wishing to speak during any portion of a commission
meeting shall sign in before the start of the meeting stating their name and
the topic to be discussed. These rules shall be posted at the speaker sign-in
table.
         d.   Speakers shall be called by name before addressing the commission
and will identify themselves before beginning their comments. Speakers will
state their position on the issue, and may provide supporting documentation
and/or evidence.
         e.   Speakers shall refrain from engaging in debates and from
directing threats or personal attacks at the commission, staff, other speakers
or members of the audience.
         f.   Groups should, whenever possible, consolidate their comments and
avoid repetition through the use of representative speakers.
         g.   Members of the audience shall refrain from applauding, cheering,
booing or the like during or at the conclusion of remarks made by any speaker,
staff member or commission member.
   C.   Agenda Participation: Public participation related to agenda items will
be in the following order:
      1.   The petitioner for an agenda item, if any, is the person or entity
with a financial or ownership interest in the matter or property that is the
subject of an item on the commission's agenda. The petitioner may present its
petition for no more than ten (10) minutes, unless extended for a time certain
by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission. Following public
participation, the petitioner will have no more than five (5) additional
minutes to reply to the comments made or questions asked.
      2.   Speakers may comment on any agenda item or may present questions to
the commission provided they comply with the limitations established in
subsections B2a through B2g of this section.
      3.   The public participation portion of the agenda item shall be subject
to a total limitation of thirty (30) minutes, unless extended for a time
certain by the chairperson or a majority vote of the commission.
      4.   If an item on the commission's agenda is tabled after public
participation has occurred, and the same item contains no significant changes
when discussed at the subsequent meeting date, there will be no public
participation portion for such agenda item at such subsequent meeting.
      5.   Commission members may, but need not, ask questions of speakers at
the conclusion of their comments.
      6.   Following the presentation by the petitioner, if any, public
participation, and any questions from the commission, the commission may
deliberate as to any action to be taken. No additional comment may be made by
the public or the petitioner except upon the express request or permission of a
majority of the members of the commission.
   D.   Invited Speakers: Any person may address the commission by invitation
of the chairperson or a majority of the members of the commission who are
present. Speakers invited to participate shall be subject to such limitations
as the chairperson or a majority of the commission shall prescribe. In the
absence of other restrictions, such speakers shall be governed by the same
rules which govern public participation generally.
   E.   Public Hearings:
      1.   Testimony:
         a.   All interested parties may appear for themselves or be
represented by a person of their choosing. Written statements will be accepted
prior to or at the hearing and will be entered in the public hearing record.
         b.   All witnesses to material facts shall testify under oath to be
administered by the chairperson. Persons desiring to ask questions only shall
not be required to be sworn.
         c.   The chairperson may limit testimony to a specific amount of time
in order to hear all persons desiring to testify.
         d.   The commission is not bound by the strict rules of evidence, but
the chairperson may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incompetent or unduly
repetitious testimony or evidence.
         e.   Formal cross examination of any witness giving testimony before
the commission, including the petitioner, shall be allowed but shall be subject
to the rulings of the chairperson as to relevance, materiality and proper form
of questioning. Informal questioning of any witness giving testimony shall be
allowed so long as good order and respect for the witness can be maintained.
         f.   The limitations applicable to public participation at commission
meetings other than public hearings, as established in subsections B2a through
B2g of this section, shall generally apply to public hearings.
      2.   Order Of Business: The order of business for public hearings shall
be as follows:
         a.   Call to order and roll call.
         b.   The chairperson will open the public hearing for a particular
matter, giving a brief summary of the petition.
         c.   The chairperson will present a brief explanation of the order of
business for the public hearing and the rules governing public participation in
the hearing.
         d.   The chairperson will swear in those wishing to give testimony.
         e.   The applicant will present its petition, including its
application and any exhibits on which its presentation will rely. All exhibits
will be marked and identified or titled by the secretary and numbered as
appropriate.
         f.   The public may ask questions of the petitioner.
         g.   The public may offer testimony in favor of the petition or
portions thereof.
         h.   The public may offer testimony objecting to the petition or
portions thereof.
         i.   The petitioner may offer a short rebuttal to the public comments.
         j.   The commission may ask questions of the petitioner or members of
the public, and may make comments concerning the petition.
         k.   The hearing will be closed or continued by approval of a motion
of the commission. Continuances should generally only occur if there was a
procedural error or if new or additional testimony is forthcoming.
         l.   The board may take a vote concerning a decision as to the
petition. (Ord. 15-01, 1-20-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/2.06(g).
CHAPTER 2
HISTORIC AND RURAL PRESERVATION PROGRAM
SECTION:
9-2-1: Historic And Rural Preservation Fund
9-2-2: Land Acquisition And Improvements
9-2-3: Conditions Of Acceptance
9-2-4: Impact On Lot Area And Setbacks
9-2-1: HISTORIC AND RURAL PRESERVATION FUND:
   A.   Fund Established: There is hereby established and created a fund to be
known as the "Village of Wayne Historic and Rural Preservation Fund" (the
"Preservation Fund"), which shall be maintained and administered by the village
treasurer for the purpose of allowing the village to finance studies, research
and other activities which may assist in the preservation of the rural and
historic character of the village and protect the village from any potential
adverse impacts of future development.
   B.   Receive And Disburse Funds: The village treasurer is hereby authorized
to receive donations for deposit into the preservation fund. Such donations
shall be in the form of a check, payable to the "Village of Wayne Historic and
Rural Preservation Fund". The amounts received from said donations shall be and
are hereby appropriated for the purposes specified in subsection A of this
section, and shall be deposited into such fund for disbursement only for such
purposes. All investment proceeds of the preservation fund shall be deposited
in and shall be part of the preservation fund. Each project for which funds are
disbursed shall be authorized by the village president and board of trustees.
The village treasurer shall keep a true and accurate record of each donation
made to the fund.
   C.   Return Of Bequests: The village treasurer shall determine, at the end
of each fiscal year, the amount of monies received and disbursed from the
preservation fund. If the corporate authorities determine that the preservation
fund is no longer necessary or the funds therein remaining are no longer
required, any unexpended monies shall be reimbursed to the individual donors,
on a pro rata basis, by check made payable to such donors. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-
2001)
9-2-2: LAND ACQUISITION AND IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Acceptance Of Land: The village board of trustees may accept, through
gifts, donations, grants, dedications in plats of subdivision or otherwise,
land for parks, flood plain areas, detention ponds, conservation areas and
other public grounds and easements, whether granted in fee, or in some lesser
estate, whose value, preservation and continued utilization are necessary and
desirable to sound community planning for the village and to the welfare of the
residents thereof, for the purpose of preserving the special historic and rural
character of the village and the streets, roads and other thoroughfares within
and adjacent to the village, and for the purpose of aiding the preservation or
enhancement of areas which have special historical, community or aesthetic
interest.
   B.   Hold Lands In Trust: All gifts, donations, grants or dedications of
land accepted by the village, and all land purchased under this chapter, as set
forth in subsection D of this section, shall be held in trust as perpetual
historic and rural preservation areas for the purposes specified in such gift,
donation, grant or dedication, subject to the right of the village to maintain
and improve the condition of such land or easements through additional
plantings of trees, shrubs or other landscaping compatible with the rural
atmosphere of the village and with the adjoining properties. It shall be the
policy of the village to consult with the donor or his successors in title
prior to any planting of trees or major landscaping.
   C.   Improvements: The acceptance of a gift, grant, donation or dedication
of land or easements as hereinabove set forth, as well as to the purchase of
land under this chapter, shall provide that no structure or other improvement
may be located on any such land or easement without the express consent of the
party or parties making such gift, grant, donation or dedication, and that such
land or easement shall not be used for any right of way for any public or
private utility or public or private street, alley or other thoroughfare,
bicycle path, equestrian trail or motorized or nonmotorized vehicle access,
except to the extent already so utilized at the time of such grant, donation or
dedication.
The property owner immediately adjoining any land which is granted, donated,
given or dedicated in fee, easement, or any lesser estate, or which is
purchased, pursuant to this section, shall have the right to maintain any
existing landscaping, fencing or driveways on such land. The village may
install fencing on such land or easements only with the consent of the
immediately adjoining property owner.
   D.   Acquisition Policy:
      1.   Donations:
         a.   The land acquired for purposes of this program under the
provisions of this chapter shall generally be acquired by voluntary donation,
grant, gift or dedication only, and not by purchase or the exercise of the
power of condemnation or eminent domain.
         b.   Any property owner may pledge to donate land for this program and
such pledges shall be held by the village until an appropriate survey and legal
description can be prepared and the potential zoning impact on the remaining
property adjacent to the donated land can be evaluated, and if there is no
detrimental impact on the remaining property held by such owner, the land shall
then be donated. The village shall not seek to enforce such pledge in a court
of law.
      2.   Purchase: Notwithstanding the general policy to acquire land by
donation whenever possible, the village board of trustees may purchase land for
parks, open space or other land or areas having a special historical, community
or aesthetic interest or value, whose value, preservation and continued
utilization are necessary and desirable to sound community planning for the
village and to the welfare of the residents thereof, for the purpose of
promoting preservation of the special historic and rural character of the
village and the streets, roads and other thoroughfares within and adjacent to
the village and the historic districts and structures located therein, or
otherwise in furtherance of the policies set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-48-2. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-2-3: CONDITIONS OF ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Subject To Existing Restrictions: Acceptance of each and every such
gift, grant, donation or dedication, as well as the purchase of land under this
chapter, shall be subject to existing encumbrances, easements, covenants and
restrictions of record, and to easements of ingress and egress for new and
existing driveways of the village. Such gifts, grants, donations or dedications
shall also be subject to existing easements or other agreements for public or
private equestrian trails and may, with the consent of the donor at the time of
the gift, grant, donation or dedication, be accepted subject to additional
dedications for public or private equestrian trails.
   B.   Acceptance By Ordinance Or Resolution: Acceptance of each and every
such gift, grant, donation or dedication shall be pursuant to specific
ordinance or resolution of the village president and board of trustees, which
shall specify the conditions of such gift, grant, donation or dedication. (Ord.
01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-2-4: IMPACT ON LOT AREA AND SETBACKS:
   A.   Lot Area: In a residence district, any territory conveyed to and
accepted by the village pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, shall be
included in determining whether any lot of record adjacent to such territory
complies with the minimum lot area and minimum yard setbacks for the applicable
residence district, whether such lot was a lot of record prior or subsequent to
the date of conveyance, provided that nothing herein shall be construed to
affect or modify any covenants, conditions, easements or restrictions of record
pursuant to any private agreement, recorded plat of subdivision or annexation
agreement. The following are examples of the operation of this section:
      1.   The owner of a two (2) acre lot of record in the W2 single- family
residence district donates frontage to the village for a linear park under the
HARP program. The conveyance is three thousand (3,000) square feet (200 feet of
frontage by 15 feet deep). The remaining portion of the lot owned by the donor
is a buildable lot because together with such park, it meets the two (2) acre
minimum lot size requirement for the W2 district.
      2.   The owner of a five (5) acre lot in the W1 single-family residence
district sells or donates to the village two (2) acres for a park pursuant to
the HARP program, and retains three (3) acres. The remaining portion of the lot
is a buildable lot because the two (2) acre park conveyance, together with the
three (3) remaining acres of the lot, satisfies the minimum four (4) acre
requirement for the W1 district.
      3.   In subsection A2 of this section, the owner proposes to build a
residence one hundred feet (100') from the adjacent street but only twenty five
feet (25') from the lot line of the remaining lot. In determining whether the
W1 front yard setback requirement is met, the total distance from the street is
included in determining the length or width of the yard.
      4.   The village acquires, by condemnation, one acre of a four (4) acre
lot of record located in the W1 single-family residence district. The remaining
portion of the lot is not buildable, because the land was not acquired pursuant
to the HARP program.
      5.   The owner of a twenty (20) acre unsubdivided tract of land conveys
all of the frontage to the village pursuant to the HARP program. The owner
subsequently applies for a plat of subdivision. The owner is entitled to
include the land conveyed for determining compliance with minimum lot areas.
   B.   Yards: If the territory conveyed under the HARP program constitutes at
least twenty five percent (25%) of the lot of record in question, front or rear
yards in all zoning districts shall be a minimum of twenty five feet (25') and
side yards shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from new lot lines established
as a result of the HARP conveyance.
   C.   Limitations: An owner or applicant seeking the benefits of these
provisions shall have the burden of demonstrating to the village, at the time
of application for building permit or subdivision approval, that the exceptions
set forth in this section apply to the lot for which a building permit or
subdivision approval is sought. No donation or other conveyance of land under
the HARP program shall be counted or included in lot area or setback
computations for more than one lot. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
CHAPTER 3
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose And Intent
9-3-2: Zoning
9-3-3: Standards And Procedures
9-3-4: Designated Historic Landmarks And Historic Preservation Districts
9-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Declarations: It is found and declared by the village board as follows:
      1.   Prodigious new development in the areas immediately adjacent to the
village, with its accompanying shifts of population and changes in residential,
commercial and industrial land use, threaten with deterioration and
disappearance the property and improvements of the village which are the
sources of its tradition and stability;
      2.   It is required in the interest of the public health, safety and
general welfare, and is necessary sound urban planning, that properties and
improvements having special historic, architectural, community or aesthetic
significance should be preserved, enhanced, continued or restored to use; and
      3.   The village's economic vitality and tax base cannot be maintained
and enhanced without regard for Wayne's heritage and older neighborhoods.
   B.   Purposes: The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
      1.   To designate, preserve, enhance, perpetuate and protect the
character of those properties and improvements in the village which have
significant historic, architectural or aesthetic features, which reflect the
historic, cultural, artistic, social, ethnic or other heritage of the nation,
state or community, or which may be representative of an architectural or
engineering type inherently valuable for the study of a style, period,
craftsmanship, method of construction or use of indigenous materials;
      2.   To stabilize and improve the economic vitality and value of the
designated properties and improvements in particular, and of the village in
general;
      3.   To preserve the existing housing stock;
      4.   To foster civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past
and an awareness among the citizens of the village of the unique history of
Wayne as embodied in its architecture and historic sites and areas;
      5.   To enhance the village's attraction to visitors;
      6.   To promote and encourage the continued private ownership and use of
designated properties and improvements to the maximum extent consistent with
the above objectives. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-3-2: ZONING:
   A.   Dual Zoning Classifications: Any portion of the village classified in
an historic district shall also be classified in one or more of the residence
districts or business districts established by the zoning ordinance. The zoning
classification of any property in an historic district shall be designated by
adding "H" to the designated zoning classification.
   B.   Applicability Of Other Regulations: In an historic district, all the
regulations of the underlying residential or business district shall apply,
except insofar as such regulations are in conflict with any special regulations
applicable to an historic district. In the event of such a conflict, the
regulations governing an historic district shall apply. All permitted or
special uses in the underlying residence or business district shall be allowed
except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   C.   Signs: No advertising signs shall be permitted in an historic
preservation district. Signs may be erected in an historic preservation
district which has an underlying residential classification in accordance with
the regulations of such district, subject to the provisions of this section.
Every new business sign or expansion of an existing business sign in an
historic preservation district which has an underlying business classification
shall be erected only as a special use. In addition to the requirements
applicable to signs in the underlying zoning district, the size, shape and
character of any sign erected shall be in keeping with the character of the
historic preservation district, and in accord with the criteria and
architectural and aesthetic considerations for the issuance of a certificate of
appropriateness under chapter 4 of this title. The historic sites commission
shall review the effect of the size, shape or character of the sign on the
historic preservation district and shall grant or deny a certificate of
appropriateness.
   D.   Building Height, Yards: Building height, front yard or rear yard
regulations, and regulations with respect to accessory buildings or uses
otherwise permitted in the underlying residential or business district, may be
varied by the corporate authorities, as applied to a particular property, after
hearings by the zoning board of appeals, upon a determination that the
variation is necessary to assure the continued preservation of an historic site
or area. All requests for such variations shall be processed in accordance with
provisions of subsection
10-4-6C of this code. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-3-3: STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Designation Standards For Landmarks: The standards for designation of
landmarks shall be as follows:
      1.   Significant value as part of the historic, cultural, artistic,
social, ethnic or other heritage of the nation, state or community;
      2.   Association with an important person or event in national, state or
local history;
      3.   Representation of the distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type inherently valuable for the study of a style, period,
craftsmanship, method of construction or use of indigenous materials;
      4.   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect or artist
whose individual genius has influenced an era;
      5.   Identification as an established and familiar visual feature in the
community owing to its unique location or physical characteristics;
      6.   Owner preferences; and
      7.   Economic and functional potentials.
   B.   Designation Standards For Historic Districts: The standards for
designation of historic districts shall be as follows:
      1.   Any of the standards listed in subsection A of this section;
      2.   Homogeneity of architectural design or dates of construction
throughout the area;
      3.   Identification by clear and distinctive boundaries; and
      4.   Repetition of distinguishing architectural or land use
characteristics throughout the area.
   C.   Designation Procedures:
      1.   Application:
         a.   The historic sites commission, by a three-fifths (3/5) vote of
all members, or any person, group of persons or association, may apply for a
landmark or historic district designation for property and improvements located
within the limits of the village.
         b.   Applications shall be filed on forms provided by the historic
sites commission. The application shall include or be accompanied by the
following:
            (1)   The name and address, as shown on the tax assessor's rolls,
of the owner of the property proposed for designation.
            (2)   The legal description and common street address of the
property proposed for designation.
            (3)   A map delineating the boundaries and location of the property
proposed for designation.
            (4)   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the designation proposed.
            (5)   An indication of whether or not the owner consents to the
proposed designation.
            (6)   Such other information as may be required by the historic
sites commission.
      2.   Preliminary Review: The historic sites commission shall, within
thirty (30) days from receipt of a complete application for designation, cause
an initial recommendation and report to be written, stating whether the
nominated landmark or historic district meets or fails to meet the standards
for designation as provided in subsections A and B of this section. The report
shall contain the following information:
         a.   An explanation of the significance or lack of significance of the
nominated landmark or historic district as it relates to the standards for
designation;
         b.   A description of the integrity or lack of integrity of the
nominated landmark or historic district;
         c.   In the case of a nominated landmark found to meet the standards
for designation, a description of the significant exterior architectural
features of the nominated landmark that should be protected.
      3.   Notification Of Nomination: The historic sites commission shall,
within thirty (30) days from completion of the initial report, cause a public
hearing to be scheduled to consider the nomination. Notice of the date, time,
place and purpose of the public hearing and a copy of the completed nomination
form shall be sent by certified mail to the owner(s) of record and to the
nominators. Notice shall also be sent by regular mail to property owner(s)
adjoining the nominated landmark or historic district at least fifteen (15)
days prior to the date of the hearing. All notices shall state the street,
address and permanent index number or legal description of a nominated landmark
and the boundaries of a nominated historic district.
      4.   Hearing: Oral or written testimony concerning the nomination shall
be taken at the public hearing from any person or organization. The historic
sites commission may solicit expert testimony or present its own evidence
regarding the historic, archaeological or scenic significance of a proposed
landmark or of any property within a proposed historic district. The owner of
the nominated landmark, or of any property within a nominated historic
district, shall be provided a reasonable opportunity to present evidence
regarding historic, archaeological, architectural or scenic significance, to be
represented by counsel, and to cross examine expert witnesses. The hearing
shall be closed upon completion of testimony.
      5.   Recommendation Of Historic Sites Commission: Within fifteen (15)
days following the close of the public hearing, the historic sites commission
shall determine whether the proposed landmark or historic district meets or
fails to meet the designation standards based on the evidence. Its
recommendation shall be presented to the village board together with its
findings concerning the historic, archaeological, architectural or scenic
significance of the proposed landmark or historic district. A copy of the
commission's recommendation shall also be transmitted to the applicant and to
the owner of the subject property.
      6.   Village Board To Approve Or Disapprove Nomination: The village board
shall review the recommendation of the historic sites commission, and may
schedule a further public hearing concerning the proposed designation. If such
a hearing is scheduled, the village clerk shall provide notice of any public
hearing in the same manner as is provided in subsection C3 of this section.
Within sixty (60) days from its receipt of the commission's recommendation, the
village board shall either designate the landmark or historic district by
ordinance, or deny the nomination, stating its reasons for such action.
      7.   Notice Of Designation: Notice of the action of the village board,
including a copy of the ordinance designating the landmark or historic
district, if any, shall be sent by regular mail to all persons of record,
including, but not limited to, each owner of record of a landmark or property
within an historic district and all owners of adjacent properties.
      8.   Appeals: Adoption of an ordinance designating a landmark or historic
district by the village board shall be final action reviewable under section 3-
101 of the Illinois administrative review law.
      9.   Regulation During Consideration Period: From the date an application
for designation is filed until the date of the final decision concerning
designation, the nominated property shall be regarded as if it was designated
as requested; provided that such interim status shall not apply for more than
two hundred ten (210) days from the date of the application.
      10.   Power Of Village Board: Nothing in this section shall be construed
to limit the powers of the village board of trustees pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-48-2. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-3-4: DESIGNATED HISTORIC LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
   A.   Landmarks Designated: The following properties or buildings are
designated as historic landmarks in the village, in that they have special
historic, community and aesthetic interest of value:
      1.   Army Trail Road, formerly known as Wayne Road, and Main Street, from
Munger Road to Illinois State Route 25, as an historic country road and
corridor.
      2.   Dove cottage, located at 35W074 Army Trail Road, as an historic site
and building.
      3.   The Chicago and Northwestern Railroad depot, as an historic
building.
      4.   The Yolton-Vogt farmstead, located at 5N021 Powis Road, as an
historic site and building.
   B.   Historic Preservation Districts: The following areas are designated
historic preservation districts, in that they have historic significance to the
village, state and nation:
      1.   The Wayne Road Historic District: That portion of Army Trail Road,
formerly known as Wayne Road, and Main Street from Munger Road on the east to
Illinois State Route 25 on the west, and all land and territory measured one
hundred feet (100') on either side of the center line of said road in DuPage
and Kane Counties, Illinois, is hereby designated as the Wayne Road historic
district. The village board may, from time to time in its discretion, establish
special conditions, regulations or other measures which are reasonable,
necessary or appropriate for the preservation, protection, enhancement,
rehabilitation, reconstruction, perpetuation or use of or within the Wayne Road
historic district.
      2.   The Wayne Village Historic District: The general area located in the
center of the village between Will Way on the south, the property along the
north side of Glos Street on the north, except those properties north of Glos
Street and east of Guild Lane, the Chicago and North Western Railway on the
west and Powis Road on the east, but also including the property along the east
side of Powis Road between Army Trail Road and Will Way, as if extended, all as
legally described in ordinance 80-03 on file in the office of the village
clerk.
      3.   The Oak Lawn Farm Historic District: The area generally located at
the intersection of Army Trail Road and Dunham Road, embracing the four corners
of the intersection, including "Dunham Castle", the buildings and structures
located on the south side of Army Trail Road east of Dunham Road on the Dunham
Woods riding club property and the barn, the residence located on the east side
of Dunham Road and the vacant land extending south of Army Trail Road and east
of Dunham Road to Norton Creek, all as legally described in ordinance 80-03 on
file in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
CHAPTER 4
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Certificate Required
9-4-2: Procedures For Consideration Of Certificate
9-4-3: Criteria For Consideration Of Certificate
9-4-1: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required before the
construction, demolition or alteration of any exterior feature of any landmark
building or structure, or of any building, structure or site improvement in an
historic district, whether or not a building or demolition permit is required
under the provisions of this code.
   B.   For purposes of this section, "site improvement" shall mean and
include, but not be limited to, fences or similar enclosures, tennis courts or
similar facilities, riding facilities, light fixtures, siding, painting and
decoration, paving of any portion of any lot area, creation of any new parking
areas on any lot, whether paved or otherwise, and grading, filling or contour
changes, provided that berms shall not be permitted in any historic district
unless certified as necessary by the village engineer. "Site improvement" shall
not include temporary, seasonal or holiday decorations, or any flowers, plants,
trees, bushes or grass if they are otherwise in compliance with village
ordinances. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-4-2: PROCEDURES FOR CONSIDERATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Application: It shall be the obligation of the lot owner, occupant,
contractor or subcontractor to apply for any required certificate of
appropriateness.
   B.   Processing: Immediately upon receipt of an application for a building
permit or certificate of appropriateness, the zoning enforcement officer shall
forward one copy of the application to the historic sites commission.
   C.   Historic Sites Commission Procedures:
      1.   Meetings: The historic sites commission shall meet within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the application to consider the application and
determine whether the application should be approved or denied. The historic
sites commission shall have jurisdiction over only those applications affecting
exterior features of a building or structure. The historic sites commission
shall notify the applicant in writing at least seven (7) days prior to the
scheduled meeting of the date, place and time of the meeting at which the
application will be considered.
      2.   Approval: If the historic sites commission determines that the
application should be approved, the commission shall so notify the applicant in
writing within fourteen (14) days of its meeting.
      3.   Denial: If the historic sites commission determines that the
application should be denied, the commission shall so notify the applicant
within fourteen (14) days of its meeting, and shall recommend changes necessary
to comply with the criteria for review of applications for certificates of
appropriateness. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of notification of any such
denial, the applicant shall either file a written modification of the
application to conform with the historic sites commission's recommended
changes, or request in writing that the historic sites commission schedule a
public hearing on the application. If no written modification or request for
public hearing is received, the application shall be considered withdrawn.
      4.   Public Hearing:
         a.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written modification or
request for public hearing, the historic sites commission shall hold a public
hearing. Written notice of such hearing shall be provided to the applicant, the
village attorney, and the village president and trustees at least seven (7)
days prior to the scheduled public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
public hearing shall also be published at least once, not more than thirty (30)
nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village.
         b.   The chairman of the historic sites commission shall conduct the
hearing and the commission shall receive oral or written testimony from all
interested parties. The applicant or any other interested party may be
represented by counsel. The commission and the applicant shall have the right
to introduce evidence and cross examine witnesses. A recorded or written
transcript of the hearing shall be made and kept.
         c.   The historic sites commission shall vote, announce its decision,
and notify the applicant, within seven (7) days after the conclusion of the
public hearing, unless the time is extended by mutual agreement between the
commission and the applicant.
         d.   The decision of the historic sites commission is final, except
for the right of appeal as provided herein.
   D.   Appeal: An appeal to the village board may be taken by an applicant or
any interested party from any final decision of the historic sites commission
within fourteen (14) days from the date the decision was announced at the
public hearing, by filing with the historic sites commission and the village
board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The commission shall
forthwith transmit to the village board all papers constituting the record upon
which the appeal is taken. Without further evidentiary hearing, the village
board shall decide the appeal within thirty (30) days following its next
regularly scheduled meeting after receipt of the notice of the decision of the
commission. Written notice of the decision of the village board on the appeal
shall be provided the applicant and the historic sites commission within seven
(7) days.
   E.   Time Limitation: Any certificate of appropriateness issued pursuant to
this section shall expire two (2) years from the date of issuance if work has
not substantially commenced under the certificate. Upon written request
submitted within the two (2) year period, or not less than thirty (30) days
after notification of a revocation of a certificate for failure to
substantially commence work, an extension of time not to exceed one year may be
granted if supported by a showing of good cause. The director of the building
and zoning department shall be empowered to make any determination required
hereunder, subject to a right of appeal to the historic sites commission.
   F.   Expedited Procedure For Approving Minor Projects: The following
procedures shall be utilized only for repair or replacement of any exterior
feature, as follows:
      1.   The property owner or applicant shall submit the usual application
for issuance of a certificate of appropriateness as otherwise provided in this
section, together with a written request for expedited approval hereunder;
      2.   The property owner or applicant shall submit with the application
current photographs of the entire residence (unless the historic sites
commission has a current set on file), with detailed photographs of the
particular areas of the proposed work;
      3.   The property owner or applicant shall certify that the proposed work
is a "one for one" or otherwise identical repair or replacement;
      4.   The property owner or applicant shall certify that the total cost of
the work to be performed is ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less and shall
provide, with the application, a written estimate or other acceptable evidence
of such cost;
      5.   The building department shall notify the chair of the historic sites
commission that an expedited approval has been requested, and the following
shall then be required:
         a.   The chairman shall designate two (2) members of the commission,
one of whom may be the chairman, to make a site visit;
         b.   The two (2) members selected shall make a joint site visit, after
notice to the property owner or applicant, and shall inspect the property and
review samples of the proposed materials, colors and similar items;
         c.   In the event that both members concur in writing that an
"identical replacement" is contemplated and that the total cost of the work is
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less, the chairman shall issue a special
certificate of appropriateness to the property owner or application, which
shall be limited to the work described in the application;
         d.   In the event that either or both of the members conclude that the
proposed work does not strictly constitute an identical replacement or repair,
that the reasonable cost of the work exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00),
or that the proposed repair or replacement is of a nonhistoric element, or if
the two (2) members do not agree as to any of the required elements for the
expedited certificate, they shall refer the application to the full historic
sites commission for the normal review process;
      6.   Upon the issuance of the special certificate of appropriateness, the
building department shall issue a building permit if the owner or applicant
otherwise qualifies therefor, subject to the provision that the historic sites
commission shall review and approve the work prior to issuance of an approved
final inspection when applicable. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
9-4-3: CRITERIA FOR CONSIDERATION OF CERTIFICATE:
In making a determination whether to approve or deny an application, the
historic sites commission shall be governed by the following criteria:
   A.   General Considerations:
      1.   Every reasonable effort should be made to provide a compatible use
for buildings, which will require minimum alteration to the building and its
environment.
      2.   Rehabilitation work should not destroy the distinguishing qualities
or character of the property and its environment. The removal or alteration of
any historic material or architectural features should be held to the minimum.
The proposed work should preserve, highlight or enhance the historic or
architectural character of the building and district.
      3.   Construction, new improvements or rehabilitation work should be
visually compatible with other buildings and places in the district and have a
positive effect on and harmonize with the aesthetic, cultural or historic
nature of the building or district.
      4.   Architectural details and materials should be incorporated as
necessary to relate the new with the old and to preserve and enhance the
inherent character of the district.
      5.   Deteriorated architectural features should be repaired rather than
replaced, wherever possible. In the event that replacement is necessary, the
new material should match the material being replaced in composition, design,
color, texture and other visual qualities.
      6.   Many changes to buildings and environments which have taken place in
the course of time are evidence of the history of the building and the
neighborhood. These changes may have developed significance in their own right,
and this significance should be recognized and respected.
      7.   All buildings should be recognized as products of their own time.
Alterations to create an appearance inconsistent with the actual character of
the building should be discouraged.
      8.   Wherever possible, new additions or alterations to buildings should
be done in such a manner that, if they were to be removed in the future, the
essential form and integrity of the original building would be unimpaired.
      9.   New buildings in an historic district or additions to existing
buildings or landscaping, should not be discouraged if their design is
compatible with the size, scale, color, material and character of the district,
building or its environment.
   B.   Architectural And Aesthetic Considerations: The following architectural
and aesthetic features should be considered:
      1.   All exterior architectural features including signs, fences,
outbuildings, paving and other appurtenances;
      2.   Height of building or structure;
      3.   The proportion of the front facade, that is, the relationship
between the width of the building to the height of the front elevation;
      4.   The proportion of the openings within the structure, that is, the
relationship between the width and height of the windows and doors;
      5.   The relationship of building mass to the open space between the
building and adjoining buildings or structures;
      6.   The relationship of materials, textures and color;
      7.   Roof shapes;
      8.   The directional expression of a building or structure, that is, the
vertical or horizontal positioning;
      9.   The general design and arrangement of buildings or structures;
      10.   The relationship of the features set forth in subsections B1
through B9 of this section to similar features of the other buildings,
structures and visual elements in the historic district. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-
2001)
CHAPTER 5
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-5-1: Zoning Enforcement Officer
9-5-1: ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
The zoning enforcement officer shall enforce the provisions of this title
pursuant to the duties established for such officer in sections
10-4-1 and
10-4-2 of this code. Such enforcement shall be in accordance with the dual
zoning classification established for historic districts in section
9-3-2 of this title, and with the requirements for a certificate of
appropriateness set forth in chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose And Intent
10-1-3: Comprehensive Village Plan Adopted
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-5: Separability
10-1-6: Violation; Penalty
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known, cited and referred to as THE WAYNE ZONING ORDINANCE.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: This Title is adopted for the purpose of:
      1.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare;
      2.   Securing adequate light, pure air, pure water and safety from fire
and other dangers;
      3.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village;
      4.   Preserving sites, areas and structures of historic, architectural
and aesthetic importance.
   B.   Standards And Objectives Set: To these ends, this Title is designed to
set up and accomplish certain standards and objectives by:
      1.   Dividing the entire Village into districts and restricting and
regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land whether for residence, business or other
specified uses;
      2.   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets;
      3.   Preventing the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings thereafter erected as related to land area;
      4.   Establishing, regulating and limiting the building or setback lines
on or along streets, alleys, or property lines;
      5.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings;
      6.   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform;
      7.   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of the residence or business districts;
      8.   Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
      9.   Providing for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located, including, without being limited thereto:
         a.   Elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas when
existing rights of the persons in possession thereof are terminated or when the
uses to which they are devoted are discontinued;
         b.   Elimination of uses to which such buildings and structures are
devoted if they are adaptable for permitted uses; and
         c.   Elimination of such buildings and structures when they are
destroyed or damaged in a major part.
      10.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided hereinafter;
      11.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
Title or of any amendment thereto.
   C.   Consolidation Of Provisions: The enactment of this Title is intended to
be a consolidation of the Zoning Map first adopted October 17, 1960, and as
thereafter amended, including but not limited to the following: Ordinance 78-1,
providing for a planned development in territory annexed to Wayne (North
Country); Ordinance 80-03, which zones certain parcels as H Historic
Preservation District; Ordinance 84-13, establishing a Commercial Equestrian
District zone and, Ordinance 88-02A, establishing a commercial equestrian
special use. The legal descriptions, maps and/or zoning classifications and
conditions of use, if any, contained in these and other ordinances involving
Map amendments, or the granting of special uses are hereby incorporated herein
by reference. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-1-3: COMPREHENSIVE VILLAGE PLAN ADOPTED:
   A.   Plan Adopted: The Comprehensive Plan for the Village, dated July 30,
1991, prepared by Robert B. Taske and Associates, Inc., and accompanying maps
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth, together with the
Village subdivision regulations dated August 6, 1991, and as thereafter
amended, set out in Title 11 of this Code, and the Wayne Zoning Ordinance
adopted May 16, 1989, and as thereafter amended, set out in Title 10 of this
Code, together with all maps and appendices prepared in conjunction therewith,
be and the same are hereby formally adopted as the Official Comprehensive Plan
and Official Map for the Village.
   B.   Copies On File: Copies of the Official Comprehensive Plan and Official
Map of the Village, together with this Chapter shall be placed on file with the
Village Clerk, and shall be available at all times during business hours for
public inspection. (Ord. 91-22, 8-6-1991)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Deciding Factors When Provisions Differ:
      1.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this Title upon
the: a) use of land or buildings; b) the bulk of buildings; c) floor area
requirements; d) lot area requirements; and e) yard requirements are either
more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any
other provision of this Title or of any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule
or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
imposed higher standards or requirements shall govern.
      2.   This Title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement; provided that, where the regulations of this Title are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this
Title shall govern.
   C.   Unlawful Buildings, Structures Or Uses: No building, structure or use,
not lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of this Title, shall become
or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this Title; and to the
extent that and in any manner that said unlawful building, structure or use is
in conflict with the requirements of this Title, said building, structure or
use remains unlawful hereunder. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Village President and Board of
Trustees that the several provisions of this Title are separable in accordance
with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this Title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this Title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this Title to a particular property, building
or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision
to any other property, building or structure not specifically included in said
judgment.
   C.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge this entire Title
to be invalid, then the prior Wayne Zoning Ordinance, as amended, shall
continue in full force and effect as if not repealed, pursuant hereto. (Ord.
89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-1-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, or anyone acting in behalf of said person, who violates the terms
of this Title shall be guilty of a petty offense punishable by a fine as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, with each day the violation remains uncorrected
constituting a separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not
exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this Title. (Ord.
89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction of this Title, the rules and definitions contained in this
Chapter shall be observed and applied, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular;
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary;
   C.   The word "may" is permissive;
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece" and "parcel"; the word
"building" includes all other structures of every kind regardless of similarity
to buildings; and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged
for", "designed for", "intended for", "maintained for" and "occupied for";
   E.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot. (If a
fraction is 1/2 foot or less the integral foot next below shall be taken);
   F.   Parenthetical words or statements are integral parts of the definitions
in which they are located; and
   G.   Any words not defined in the following Section shall be construed in
their general accepted meanings as defined by the most recent edition of
Webster's Dictionary. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURE: The use of twenty (20) acres or more of land for agricultural
purposes, including farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
floriculture, viticulture and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary
accessory uses for packing, treating or storing the produce; provided, however,
that the operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the
normal agricultural activities.
ALLEY: The public right of way which normally affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
ALTERATION: A change in size, shape, character, occupancy or use of a building
or structure.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: A building or portion thereof containing facilities for
simultaneously washing more than two (2) motor vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A building or portion thereof or premises used for
offering for sale at retail to the public of fuels, lubricating oil, grease,
tires, batteries and accessories for motor vehicles, where repair service is
incidental, where no storage or parking space is offered for sale or rent. When
such dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a
public garage, the premises are classified as a public garage. Automobile
service stations do not include open sales lots.
AWNING: A rooflike mechanism, retractable in operation, and covered with
flexible, textured material which projects from the wall of a building.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building, all or in part below "curb level" as defined
herein.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a street or streets and any
combination of boundary lines of public or institutionally-owned lands,
railroad right of way, rivers and lakes and other lines of demarcation.
BORROW PIT: A place or premises where dirt, soil, peat, sand, gravel or other
material is removed by excavation or otherwise, below the grade of surrounding
land, for any purpose other than that necessary and incidental to grading or to
building construction or operations on the premises.
BUILDING: A structure built for the support, enclosure, shelter or protection
of persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind, and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or portion of a principal building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building and customary
in connection with that use.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space, or from other buildings or other structures, by a
permanent roof and by exterior walls or party walls, pierced only by windows
and normal entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A building surrounded by open space on the same lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the mean grade level (average level
of the grade adjacent to the exterior walls of the building) to the mean height
of the building (average level between the eaves and the ridge of a gable, hip
or gambrel roof plus the vertical distance of each building story). Chimneys,
spires, towers, elevator penthouses, tanks and similar projections other than
signs shall not be included in calculating the height. Provided, however, that
in no case shall the total building height of the building exceed forty feet
(40'). Average level of grade shall mean the proposed mean grade at the time of
initial permitting.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which the principal use of the
lot on which it is located is conducted.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building which is arranged, designed, used or intended
to be used for residential occupancy by one or more families or lodgers and
which includes, but is not limited to, the following types: a) single-family
detached dwellings; b) two-family dwellings; c) single-family or two-family
attached and semi-detached dwellings developed initially under single ownership
or unified control; and d) multiple-family dwellings.
BULK: The term used to indicate the size and setbacks of buildings or
structures and the location of same with respect to one another, and includes
the following: a) size and height or buildings; b) location of exterior walls
at all levels in relation to lot lines, streets, or other buildings; c) gross
floor area of buildings in relation to lot area (floor area ratio); d) all open
spaces allocated to buildings; and e) amount of lot area provided per dwelling
unit.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials; or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold,
or where services are offered.
CARPORT: An open-sided roofed automobile shelter, formed by extension of the
roof from the side of the building.
CEMETERY: Any land or structure in the Village dedicated to and used, or
intended to be used, for the interment of human remains.
CHAINLINK FENCE (Also Known As CYCLONE FENCE): A fence made of metal wire
twisted together into a diamond pattern.
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL: A building or portion thereof, the principal use of
which is for offices of an organization of specializing physicians or dentists
or both.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: Nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues which owns, hires or leases a building, or portion
thereof; the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
(The affairs and management of such "private club or lodge" are conducted by a
board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on
such premises providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. The sale of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be
allowed provided it is secondary and incidental to the promotion of some other
common objective of the organization, and further provided that such sale of
alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the applicable Federal, State and
County laws and Village ordinances.)
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which: a) complies
with all the regulations of this title or of any amendment hereto governing
bulk for the zoning district in which such building or structure is located; b)
is designed or intended for a conforming use; - example: 1) a single-family
dwelling in a Residence District; or 2) a store building in a Business
District.
COOP: A structure housing hens consisting of a covered inside enclosure.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Wayne.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established elevation at the centerline of the
street pavement in front of such building measured at the center of such front.
(Where no curb level has been established, the mean elevation of the finished
lot grade immediately adjacent to a building shall be considered the "curb
level".)
CYCLONE FENCE: See definition of chainlink fence.
DISTRICT: A portion of the area within the Village of Wayne where certain
uniform regulations and requirements, or various combinations thereof, apply
under the provisions of this title and the adjoining unincorporated area in
DuPage County and Kane County where such provisions of this title shall apply
upon annexation into the Village of such areas.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: One which accommodates on the lot its patrons'
automobiles, from which the occupants may watch, purchase, etc.
DWELLING: A permanent building, designed or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, but not including hotels, motels or lodging houses.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing one dwelling unit only.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living
quarters for one family only. (Individual bathrooms are not necessarily
provided, but complete single kitchen facilities, permanently installed, shall
always be included for each "dwelling unit".)
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A terminal at which electric energy is received
from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution system only.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is received from the
transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system and, generally, to the local distribution system.
ENTRY STRUCTURES: A gate or gates which serves as a movable barrier across an
entry drive or entry walkway. Entry structures also include wing walls, columns
and/or walls at an entryway with or without a gate or gates.
ESTABLISHMENT, BUSINESS: A place of business carrying on operations within the
Business District in compliance with zoning regulations as provided in
title 10, chapter 8, the ownership and management of which are separate and
distinct from those of any other place of business located on the same zoning
lot. Direct access to each "business establishment" shall be separate and
distinct from direct access to any other business establishment, and in no case
shall there be access to one such establishment from within another such
establishment.
EXCAVATING/FILLING: Except as hereinafter provided, excavation and/or filling
shall mean any changing of the grade or subgrade of a tract of land by cutting,
scraping, grading, trenching, digging, filling in or otherwise reshaping the
natural contour of the ground. The following shall not be construed as
excavating/filling: a) any cutting, grading, trenching, digging or backfilling
of any foundation of a building approved for construction; b) any cutting,
grading, trenching, digging or backfilling of any septic tank site, including
septic field approved for construction or reconstruction; c) top dressing in an
area of existing homes, which top dressing does not change the drainage
patterns.
FAMILY: One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption or a group of not more than three (3) persons not all so
related, together with his or their domestic servant or servants, maintaining a
common household in a dwelling unit. A family may include not more than two (2)
roomers, boarders or permanent guests, whether or not gratuitous.
FAMILY BURYING GROUND: A cemetery in which no lots are sold to the public and
in which interments are restricted to a group of persons related to each other
by blood or marriage.
FENCE: A structure used to delineate a boundary, or as a barrier, or as a means
of confinement or for confinement.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including gates, which has, over its entirety, fifty
percent (50%) of the surface area in open space as viewed from an angle of
ninety degrees (90°) from the fence line.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including gates, which conceals from view from adjoining
properties, streets or alleys, activities conducted behind it.
FLAG LOT: A lot that meets the minimum required lot width except that it does
not front on a public right-of-way dedicated for roadway purposes, and it has
access to such a public right-of-way only by way of a narrow private drive or
lane that does not meet the minimum required lot width.
FLOODPLAIN: See definitions contained in DuPage County Countywide Stormwater
and Floodplain Ordinance adopted by DuPage County June 14, 1994.
FLOOR AREA (For Determining Off Street Parking And Off Street Loading
Requirements): Floor area where prescribed as the basis of determining off
street parking and off street loading requirements shall be the sum of the
gross horizontal area of the several stories of a structure taken from glass
line to glass line and including the structure's primary and permanent working
area, but excluding: a) basement; b) storage spaces; c) space permanently
devoted to public use (such as elevator shafts and lobbies, interior
stairwells, restrooms, common corridors); and d) space permanently devoted to
building maintenance and operations (such as rooftop mechanical penthouses for
the containment of such uses as heating and air conditioning equipment,
elevator mechanisms and cooling towers, janitorial workrooms and storerooms;
electrical cabinets; and ductwork).
FRONTAGE, LOT: All of the property of such lot fronting on a street, as
measured between side lot lines.
FRONTAGE (Of A Block): All of the property fronting on one side of a street.
(If the street is dead ended, the frontage is measured to the dead end of the
street.)
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is intended for and used primarily for
storing the private passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles and boats, and
horse or boat trailers of the family or families resident upon the premises;
provided that the uses of such accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building may also include, but shall not be limited to, a workshop
area, and storing lawn maintenance equipment, tools, and other personal
property belonging to the property owner; provided, however, that such
accessory building or accessory portion of the principal building shall not be
used for any home occupation other than home offices as permitted by section
10-7-1 of this title, or for any other business, service, or industry, whether
or not connected directly or indirectly with such vehicles, trailers or other
items stored therein.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building where automobiles are painted, repaired, rebuilt,
reconstructed or stored for compensation.
GARAGE, STORAGE: A building or premises used for housing only of motor vehicles
pursuant to previous arrangements and not by transients; and where no equipment
or parts are sold, and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired, hired or
sold, except that fuel, grease or oil may be dispensed within the building to
vehicles stored therein.
GRADE: A reference plane representing the average finished ground level
adjoining the building at all exterior walls. When the finished ground slopes
away from the exterior walls, the reference plane shall be established by the
lowest point(s) within the area between the building and the lot line or, when
the lot line is more than six feet (6') from the building, between the
building, and a point six feet (6') from the building.
GUEST, PERMANENT: A person or persons who occupies or has the right to occupy
accommodations in a lodging house, motel, hotel or apartment hotel as his
domicile and place of permanent residence.
GUESTHOUSE OR COACH HOUSE: A detached building or portion of a detached garage,
accessory in nature, which is located on the same lot as a principal dwelling,
and which contains living quarters for temporary nonpaying guests, domestic
servants or employees, or one or more persons who are related by blood,
marriage or legal adoption to persons residing in the principal dwelling.
HEN: Means the female of the species Gallus gallus domesticus, commonly known
as chickens.
HISTORIC SITES COMMISSION: The Village Historic Sites Commission 1 .
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or profession engaged in by members of the
immediate family residing in a dwelling, where such occupation is incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes.
KENNEL: Any premises or portions thereof on which more than four (4) dogs, cats
or other household animals over four (4) months of age are kept, or in which
more than two (2) such animals are maintained, boarded, bred or cared for in
return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
LIVESTOCK OR LIVESTOCK ANIMALS: Domesticated animals limited to hens (as
defined in this section), horses, donkeys, mules, alpacas and llamas.
LOT: A single tract or parcel of land located within a single block, which (at
the time of filing for a building permit) is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or unified control.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a duly recorded
lake, detention or retention basin, river or floodplain area or any area
occupied by a street or public way.
In addition, lot area shall include, for purposes of computing applicable
setbacks or minimum lot size under the provisions of this title, any territory
adjacent to (and previously a part of) a lot of record which territory has been
conveyed to and accepted by the Village pursuant to the Wayne historic and
rural preservation program, as set forth in title 9, chapter 2 of this Code.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot, measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which is along an existing or dedicated
public street or, where no public street exists, is along a public way, or
private street; where such public way or private street is not a dedicated
street, the right-of-way of such public way or private street shall be deemed
to be sixty feet (60'), unless otherwise provided. (The owner of a corner lot
may select either street lot line as the front lot line.)
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from, and is, or
is most nearly, parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot where the side lot line adjoining a street
is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of an adjacent interior
lot.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting streets as
distinguished from a corner lot. (Both street lines shall be deemed front lot
lines.)
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot measured
at the building line or front lot line, whichever is greater.
MARQUEE OR CANOPY: A roof like structure of a permanent nature which projects
from the wall of a building and may overhang into a required yard.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer, trailer or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
NAMEPLATE: A sign indicating the name and address of a building, or the name of
an occupant thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation therein.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure which: a) does not
comply with all of the regulations of this title or of any amendment hereto
governing bulk for the zoning district in which such building or structure is
located; or b) is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of land, buildings or structures which does not comply
with all of the regulations of this title or of any amendment hereto governing
use for the zoning district in which such use is located.
PARKING LOT: An outdoor temporary storage area other than a street, used, or
intended to be used, for the parking of five (5) or more motor vehicles for
other than normal and customary single-family residential purposes. Driveways
or other means of access to a parking lot shall be provided, but the area
thereof shall not be counted in computing the number of parking spaces.
PEN: An enclosure connected to a coop for the purpose of allowing hens to leave
the coop while remaining in an enclosed, predator safe environment.
PESTS: Insects and wild rodents such as rats, mice, skunks, beavers, raccoons,
squirrels, chipmunks, prairie dogs, ground hogs (a/k/a woodchucks), marmots,
porcupines and gophers that create nuisances or that are otherwise detrimental
to humans or their livestock, or to either of their habitats, including the
structures and plants that they own, occupy or maintain.
PLAN COMMISSION: The Village of Wayne Plan Commission 2 .
PLASTIC FLEX FENCE: A nonrigid fence consisting of PVC, polyethylene or other
thermoplastic fence rails attached to and supported by wood, thermoplastic or
metal posts.
   Illustration 1
   Plastic Flex Fence
   Examples - Nonexclusive
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1270.gif]
 
PROPERTY LINES: Those bounding a lot.
PUBLIC (As In Public Sewerage Or Water Systems): Implies the provision of such
service by a person, firm or corporation, or governmental unit as authorized by
law.
PUBLIC WAY: A sidewalk, alley, street or limited access highway.
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operations, but not including freight depots or stations, loading
platforms, train sheds, warehouses, car or locomotive shops, or car yards,
whether or not owned in fee by the railroad or other entity having the right to
use such right-of-way.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of a building
or structure and the front property line.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product, place,
activity, person, institution, organization or business. A "sign" shall not
include: a) the display of official court or public office notices; b) the flag
emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit, school or religious group; nor
c) one located completely within an enclosed building, except signs located
behind window areas intended to be viewed from outside the building.
SIGN, ADVERTISING: A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises where such
sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, BUSINESS: A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
SIGN, FLASHING: An illuminated sign of which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
sign is in use. (A revolving, illuminated sign shall be considered to be a
"flashing sign".)
SIGN, GROSS AREA OF: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of such sign and in no case passing through or
between any adjacent elements of same. (Such perimeter shall not include any
structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not forming an
integral part of the display.)
SNOW FENCE: A fence, typically used to force drifting of snow to occur in a
predictable place rather than randomly, or to create a barrier around a
construction site. Such fencing may consist of perforated orange plastic sheet
attached to stakes at regular intervals or cedar or other lightweight wood
strips connected by metal wire attached to metal stakes.
   Illustration 2
   Snow Fence
   (Examples - Nonexclusive)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1272.gif]
 
STABLE, PRIVATE: A one story accessory building detached from a dwelling that
is located on a lot on which a dwelling is located, and which is designed,
arranged, used or intended to be used primarily for housing not more than one
allowable horse or pony per acre, which horses or ponies are not for hire but
are primarily for the use of occupants of the dwelling; provided that a minimum
of two (2) acres is required for such an accessory building, and further
provided that the uses of such accessory building may also include, but shall
not be limited to, a workshop area, and storing lawn maintenance equipment,
tools, and other personal property belonging to the property owner; provided,
however, that such accessory building shall not be used for any home occupation
or for any other business, service, or industry, whether or not connected
directly or indirectly with items stored therein.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above, or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. (A basement having more than 1/
2 the clear floor to ceiling height above "curb level" shall be considered a
"story".)
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top level of the
story below and, further, to constitute a half story, not more than sixty
percent (60%) of the floor area shall be completed for a principal or accessory
use.
STREET: A platted, partially or fully improved public right of way which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property (not including
driveways to buildings).
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: A change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as the addition,
removal or alteration of bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more or
less permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, except public utility communication and
electrical transmission lines and equipment and facilities supporting the same
and/or incidental thereto.
T-POSTS: A metal fence post in the shape of a "t" to which wire strands or wire
mesh is attached to form a fence.
   Illustration 3
   T-Post
   (Example - Nonexclusive)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1274.gif]
 
USE (Of Property): The purpose or activity for which the land or building
thereon is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained. (Includes any manner of performance of an activity or operation
with respect to the performance standards of this title.)
USE, PERMITTED: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts (provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards, if any, of such district).
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use. (Such use may be either "permitted" or
"special".)
USE, SPECIAL: A use (either public or private) which, because of its unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in any
particular district or districts, but may be lawfully established in a district
in accordance with provisions set forth in this title.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village of Wayne.
WALL: A structure used to delineate a boundary or as a barrier or as a means of
confinement or for confinement which conceals from view from adjoining
properties, or streets, activities conducted.
WIRE MESH FENCE (Also Known As FIELD OR FARM FENCE): A fence consisting of
metal wire mesh either welded or woven in a square, rectangular or triangular
shape.
   Illustration 4
   Wire Mesh Fence
   (Examples - Nonexclusive)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1276.gif]
 
YARD: An open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
to the sky (a “yard” extends along a lot line and at right angles to such line,
to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the zoning district
in which such zoning lot is located).
YARD, CORNER SIDE: A side yard which adjoins a public street, private street,
right-of-way, roadway or limited access highway which, unlike a typical
interior side yard, extends from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
YARD, FRONT: The yard extending along a front lot line, being the minimum
horizontal distance, between the street front lot line and the main building or
any building projections other than steps, between the side lot lines.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line, which is located
immediately adjacent to another lot or to an alley separating such side yard
from another lot, between the front yard and the rear yard.
YARD, REAR: The yard extending along a rear lot line, being the minimum
horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear of the main building
or any building projections other than steps, between the side lot lines.
YARD, REQUIRED: An open space on the same lot with a building or structure,
unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, along a lot line,
and to a depth or width specified in the yard requirements for the zoning
district in which such zoning lot is located.
YARD, SIDE: The yard extending along the side lot line between the front yard
and to the rear yard.
YARD, TRANSITIONAL: A yard which must be provided on a lot in a Business
District.
ZONING BOARD: The Village of Wayne Zoning Board of Appeals 1 . (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989; amd. Ord. 92-12, 7-7-1992; Ord. 93-34, 11-2-1993; Ord. 94-22, 6-14-
1994; 1998 Code; Ord. 00-02, 1-11-2000; Ord. 01-09, 6-19-2001; Ord. 02-03, 4-2-
2002; Ord. 05-30, 9-6-2005; Ord. 10-01, 1-19-2010; Ord. 10-08, 6-15-2010; Ord.
12-15, 7-17-2012; Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019; Ord. 22-11, 10-4-2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 1 of this Code.
2 1. See title 2, chapter 2 of this Code.
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Buildings On A Lot
10-3-2: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
10-3-3: Prohibited Use Of Land Or Buildings
10-3-4: Controls Over Use And Bulk
10-3-5: Accessory Buildings, Structures And Uses
10-3-6: Special Uses
10-3-7: Yards
10-3-8: Floodplain And Wetland Areas; Stormwater Management
10-3-9: Excavation/Filling Permits
10-3-10: Architectural Controls
10-3-11: Historic And Rural Preservation Program
10-3-12: Historic Preservation Districts
10-3-13: Minimum Distance Between An Equestrian Easement And Any Building Or
Structure Other Than A Fence
10-3-1: BUILDINGS ON A LOT:
In single-family residence districts, every single-family dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered shall be located on a lot, and there shall be
not more than one principal building on one lot. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-2: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings are allowable in the districts
indicated hereinafter under the conditions specified in this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Permitted uses.
   C.   Special uses. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-3: PROHIBITED USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
No building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than one which
is specified as a permitted or special use in the zoning district in which such
building or land is located. However, where a building permit for a building or
structure has been issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date
hereof, and where construction has been begun within six (6) months of such
effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion, said building or
structure may be completed in accordance with approved plans on the basis of
which the building permit was issued; and further may, upon completion, be
occupied under a certificate of occupancy for the use originally designated,
subject to the provisions of chapter 13 of this title.
The storage of goods and materials outside of a building is prohibited as is
the warehousing of goods and materials not intended for sale from, or use in, a
structure located in a business district or commercial equestrian district.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-4: CONTROLS OVER USE AND BULK:
   A.   Use:
      1.   No building or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no
building or structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, raised, moved,
reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered except in conformity with the
regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
      2.   There shall not be more than one principal use on any zoning lot.
      3.   All limitations in use, or rights of use, including the building of
structures, shall be based on a single platted parcel rather than any
combination of parcels.
   B.   Bulk: All new buildings shall conform to the bulk regulations
established herein for the district in which each building is located. Further,
no existing building shall be enlarged, reconstructed, structurally altered,
converted or relocated in such a manner as to conflict or further conflict with
the bulk regulations of this title for the district in which such building
shall be located. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-5: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Time Of Construction: A permit to construct an accessory building or
structure may be issued when more than fifty percent (50%) of the principal
building or structure has been completed; provided that no occupancy
certificate shall be issued for any accessory building or structure, and no
accessory use shall be commenced until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued for the principal building, structure or use.
   B.   Location Of Accessory Buildings And Structures: No detached accessory
building or structure shall be erected, altered, or moved to any location less
than ten feet (10') from the nearest wall of the principal building, or within
the minimum required front or side yard for the zoning district in which the
lot is located, unless such accessory building or structure conforms to the
requirements for accessory buildings or structures for special uses in such
district. In Residence Districts, accessory buildings and structures shall be
located only in the rear yard, between the minimum required side yards, and
shall be a minimum distance from the rear lot line that is equal to the minimum
required side yard for the district in which it is located, except as otherwise
specified by the regulations of the particular district in which the subject
property is located. The provisions of this subsection shall apply to
guesthouses and private stables except to the extent subsections E and F of
this section permit or require otherwise.
   C.   Number And Size Of Accessory Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Excluding attached and detached private garages, private stables,
guesthouses and coops and pens, where allowable, a maximum of two (2) attached
or detached accessory buildings shall be permitted on any Residential zoning
lot.
      2.   The total maximum floor area of any and all such accessory buildings
shall be ten percent (10%) of the total square footage of the dwelling unit.
      3.   The maximum height of accessory buildings or structures shall be as
follows:
         a.   Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this subsection,
accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed one-story and an overall
height of twenty feet (20') in height, unless otherwise permitted as accessory
to specific permitted or authorized special uses.
         b.   Attached garages shall not exceed the maximum permitted height of
the principal building.
         c.   Light poles shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
         d.   Private stables shall not exceed one-story and a mean height of
twenty four feet (24'), provided however, that the overall height shall not
exceed thirty-two feet (32'), excluding cupolas and decorations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a hay loft is permitted to be located above the
first floor area of the private stable, but in no event shall a hay loft cause
a private stable to exceed the height restrictions set forth herein.
         e.   Guesthouses shall not exceed the maximum permitted height of the
principal building.
   D.   Private Garages: Both attached and detached garages shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   A garage stall shall not exceed 300 square feet. No garage door
shall exceed eighteen feet (18') in width. Garage stall doors over ten feet
(10') wide shall be considered two (2) garage stall doors; and
      2.   All garage doors shall be of a uniform height, but in no event more
than nine feet (9') in height; and
      3.   They shall meet all conditions for approval of accessory buildings
as provided in subsection I of this section; and
      4.   On lots less than 40,000 square feet, any attached garage shall not
exceed 3 stalls with no more than 2 facing the street. No detached garages are
allowed on lots less than 40,000 square feet regardless of the zoning district
in which the lot is located.
      On lots not less than 40,000 square feet and less than 2 acres, excluding
property located within the historic district, any attached garage shall not
exceed 4 stalls with no more than 3 facing the street. The total of all
garages, both attached and detached, shall not exceed 35% of the total square
footage of the dwelling unit or not exceed 6 stalls whichever is less.
      On lots not less than 2 acres and less than 4 acres, any attached garage
shall not 3ceed 5 stalls with no more than 3 facing the street. The total of
all garages, both attached and detached, shall not exceed 35% of the total
square footage of the dwelling unit or not exceed 8 stalls whichever is less.
      On lots not less than 4 acres, any attached garage shall not exceed 6
stalls with no more than 3 facing the street. The total of all garages, both
attached and detached, shall not exceed 35% of the total square footage of the
dwelling unit or not exceed 10 stalls whichever is less.
      Their total square footage shall not exceed thirty-five percent (35%) of
the total square footage of the dwelling unit. In the Wayne Village Historic
District (as such district is described in subsection 9-3-4B2 of this Code), a
two (2) stall garage not exceeding four hundred eighty (480) square feet,
whether attached or detached, shall be permitted irrespective of said thirty-
five percent (35%) limitation; and, provided further, that in the event of a
conflict between the aforesaid thirty-five percent (35%) limitation and the
regulations of the particular zoning district in which the subject property is
located, the latter shall control; and
      5.   They shall be used only as provided in the definition of “garage,
private” in section 10-2-2 of this title.
   E.   Private Stables: The stall(s) in a private stable shall be a minimum of
ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'). On a site of at least two (2) acres but
less than three (3) acres, the first floor area shall not exceed one thousand
five hundred (1,500) square feet. On a site of at least three (3) acres, the
first floor area shall not exceed one thousand seven hundred (1,700) square
feet. On a four (4) acre site, the first floor area shall not exceed one
thousand nine hundred (1,900) square feet. For each additional acre, the first
floor area may be increased not more than two hundred twenty five (225) square
feet, to a maximum of two thousand eight hundred (2,800) square feet. Private
stables or other equestrian use buildings in excess of two thousand eight
hundred (2,800) square feet shall be considered a special use and shall not be
constructed on any tract of land of less than ten (10) acres. Requests for
approval of such private stable or equestrian use building shall be subject to
the requirements of chapter 10 of this title, and/or sections
10-12-1 and
10-12-2 of this title, as applicable. The area of any and all overhangs shall
not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the square footage of a private stable.
Overhead doors shall have a maximum height of ten feet (10') and a maximum
width of ten feet (10'). The area permitted for accessory buildings and
structures as set forth in subsection C of this section may be added to the
maximum first floor area of a private stable, provided that to the extent that
such accessory building's/structure's area is added to the first floor area of
a private stable, the maximum remaining area for accessory buildings/structures
shall be reduced by a like amount. Private stables shall be a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from the rear and side lot lines and a minimum of fifty feet (50')
from the principal residence. Private stables shall be used only as provided in
the definition of stables, private in section
10-2-2 of this title.
   F.   Guesthouses: A guesthouse may only be constructed on a lot of four (4)
or more acres and must be located behind the building line of the principal
residence. The ground floor area of a guesthouse shall be a minimum of three
hundred (300) square feet and a maximum of eight hundred (800) square feet and
shall be a minimum of fifty feet (50') from the rear and side lot lines and a
minimum of fifty feet (50') from the principal residence. A guesthouse shall
have a maximum of two (2) stories. A two (2) story guesthouse shall be subject
to a maximum ground floor area of eight hundred (800) square feet and a maximum
total floor area of one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet. A one story
guesthouse shall have a maximum total floor area of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet; provided, however, that the ground floor area of any
guesthouse shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the ground floor area of the
principal residence.
   G.   Swimming Pools And Satellite Antennas 1 : Swimming pools and satellite
antennas are permitted accessory uses if requirements regulating the location
and/or construction are satisfied as provided by Village ordinances.
   H.   Coops And Pens: Structures housing hens shall: 1) consist of both a
coop and an adjacent pen, 2) only be located in the rear yard within building
setback lines, and no less than twenty five feet (25') from a dwelling other
than the dwelling of the owner of the coop and pen, 3) not be visible from a
street, and 4) comply with all other requirements of this Code. Structures
housing hens shall provide not less than ten (10) square feet per hen with coop
size limited to not more than the product of twelve (12) square feet multiplied
by the maximum number of hens allowed on the lot and pen enclosures limited to
not more than the product of twenty (20) square feet multiplied by the maximum
number of hens allowed on the lot. Coops shall be constructed to specifications
as approved by the Director of Building and Zoning and must be placed either
above ground or on a hard surface such as concrete, patio block or gravel and
able to withstand natural forces such as wind, rain and snow. Wooden or pre-
cast concrete posts shall be acceptable foundations if they are placed at least
twenty four inches (24") into the ground and firmly tamped with dirt or gravel.
Any structure housing hens including any pen, coop, building or other enclosure
that is not fully enclosed shall be screened to a height of six feet (6'). Said
screening shall be comprised of fences or walls six feet (6') in height. A
written final inspection report approving a coop and pen must be issued by the
Director of Building and Zoning before the coop and pen may be used to keep and
maintain hens. A building permit shall be required before commencement of
construction of any coop or pen, and the permit applicant shall be required to
complete and submit the application form and pay the permit and any
registration fee established by the Village and comply with the requirements of
this Code before any building permit is issued. Existing structures that
satisfy the coop and pen requirements of this title need not obtain a new
building permit, but a permit application for said structures together with
payment of a building inspection fee and any registration fee established by
the Village shall be submitted by the owner within thirty (30) days of
enactment of this subsection to obtain a written final inspection report
approving coop and pen use on further condition that the final inspection
report shall only be issued after inspection and finding by the Director of
Building and Zoning that all requirements of this title have been satisfied.
   I.   Conditions For Approval Of Accessory Buildings And Structures: All
accessory buildings and structures shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   An accessory building must be constructed of materials that are
architecturally compatible with any existing or proposed principal building on
the lot.
      2.   An accessory building must be of a design that is architecturally
compatible with the design of any existing or proposed principal residence on
the lot with respect to roof pitch, eave dimensions, height, window design,
door design and other architectural details.
      3.   Appropriate screening, by natural vegetation, including, but not
limited to, trees, shrubs, flowering bushes or other plantings, or by other
means, shall be required where necessary to visually conceal accessory
buildings or structures and reduce the impact of visual intrusions on adjoining
properties. Such screening shall be as approved by the Village Forester.
The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall maintain records establishing that the
foregoing conditions have been met for each accessory building or structure
constructed in the Village.
   J.   Permitted Uses And Purposes For Accessory Buildings And Structures In
Residential Areas:
      1.   Subject to the conditions set forth in subsection J2 of this
section, the following shall be permitted uses and purposes for accessory
buildings and structures in residential areas:
         Arbors, decks, gazebos, patios and porches in accordance with the
regulations set forth in this title.
         Coops and pens in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         Fences or walls in accordance with the regulations set forth in
subsection
10-3-7B5 of this chapter.
         Fixed recreational equipment in accordance with the regulations set
forth in this title.
         Greenhouses in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         "Guesthouse or coach house" for the uses and purposes specified in the
definition thereof in section
10-2-2 of this title and in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         Lighting and light poles.
         Pool houses in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         Private garages for the uses and purposes specified in the definition
of "garage, private" in section
10-2-2 of this title and in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         Private stables for the uses and purposes specified in the definition
of "stable, private" in section
10-2-2 of this title and in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
         Satellite antennas in accordance with the regulations set forth in
title 8, chapter 4 of this Code.
         Signs in accordance with the regulations set forth in this Code for
the type of sign proposed.
         Storage sheds for the use and purpose of storing personal property,
including, but not limited to, lawn maintenance or gardening equipment or
tools; provided, however, that no storage shed shall be used in conjunction
with any home occupation or any other business, service or industry.
         Swimming pools in accordance with the regulations of this Code.
         Tennis courts in accordance with the regulations set forth in this
title.
      2.   Use of any accessory building or structure shall be subject to the
following standards and conditions:
         a.   Except for guesthouses and coach houses, no accessory building
shall be used for dwelling purposes.
         b.   Except for private stables and pens and coops, no accessory
building shall be used to house animals or livestock.
         c.   No accessory building shall be used as a home occupation other
than home offices as permitted by section
10-7-1 of this title or for any other business, service, or industry, whether
or not connected directly or indirectly with items or property stored therein.
         d.   The use of any accessory building or structure shall not result
in noise loud enough to annoy or disturb the comfort, health, peace or repose
of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities, unreasonable disturbance,
rodent infestation, un-containerized livestock waste accumulating on a
residential lot for more than twenty four (24) hours, or perception of odor by
or any unreasonably adverse impact to adjacent properties.
      3.   As part of the building permit application for an accessory building
or structure, the applicant shall identify the proposed use of such building or
structure. Any change in such use shall be allowed if the new use would be
permitted in such building or structure; provided that the property owner shall
notify the Zoning Enforcement Officer of such change of use in writing for the
Village's records. Misrepresentation of the intended use of any accessory
building or structure shall be a violation of this title. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989; amd. Ord. 95-07, 5-2-1995; Ord. 95-14, 8-1-1995; Ord. 12-15, 7-17-2012;
Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019; Ord. 20-16, 8-18-2020; Ord. 22-02, 3-9-2022; Ord. 22-10,
9-6-2022)
 
Notes
1    See title 8, chapters 4 and 5 of this Code.
10-3-6: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Special Use Classification Established: To provide for the location of
certain uses hereinafter specified which are deemed desirable for the public
welfare within a given district or districts, but which might have an adverse
effect upon nearby properties or upon the character and future development of
the district in which they are located, a classification of special uses is
hereby established. Procedures for special uses are set forth in section
10-4-7 of this title.
   B.   Additions, Enlargements To Special Uses: Where a use exists on the
effective date hereof and it is classified as a special use by said provisions,
it shall be considered to be a lawful special use. Additions or alterations to
existing buildings or land improvements for expansion of lawful special uses
may be made within the area of the lot included in the ownership existing at
the time of adoption of this title, and they shall be subject to yard, floor
area ratio and building height requirements set forth in this title for
permitted uses in the districts in which they are located. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
   C.   Rezone From Business To Residence District: Where a use lawfully
existed in the B Local Shopping Center District on the date of any map
amendment rezoning such property to a Residence District (as set forth in
chapter 7 of this title), a special use may be granted as provided in said
chapter 7 of this title. In such event, the notice and hearing requirements set
out in section
10-4-7 of this title shall not be applicable. (Ord. 97-07, 2-4-1997)
10-3-7: YARDS:
   A.   Permitted Obstructions: For the purpose of this title, the following
shall not be considered as obstructions when located in the yards indicated:
      1.   In Any Required Yard:
         Bay windows.
         Chimneys.
         Driveways, provided the side edge of the driveway closest to a side
lot line is at least twelve feet (12') from such line.
         Entry structures not exceeding twelve feet (12') in height in the W1
and W2 Zoning Districts; not exceeding eight feet (8') in height in all other
zoning districts.
         Open terraces and awnings adjoining the principal building if they do
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the depth of the yard.
         Ornamental light standards and flagpoles.
         Overhanging roof eaves, including gutters.
         Trees and shrubs, provided that in that portion of a required front or
side yard situated within twenty feet (20') of the lot corner formed by the
intersection of any two (2) street lines, shrubs shall not be higher than
thirty six inches (36") above street level.
      2.   In Front Yards: No other obstructions shall be permitted other than
or permitted in subsection A1 of this section. For the purpose of permitted
obstructions, the “front yard” shall be defined as the area between the side
lot lines which is in front of the building line of an existing or proposed
principal residence.
         Open fences not to exceed forty eight inches (48") in height.
      3.   In Side Yards:
         Air conditioning equipment provided the same is visually screened with
evergreen shrubs or a wall or solid fence.
         Open accessory off street parking spaces, except in a side yard
abutting a street. Where permitted, such parking spaces shall be located on a
driveway.
         Open fences not to exceed five feet (5') in height.
      4.   In Rear Yards (Subject To Section
10-3-5 Of This Chapter):
         Air conditioning equipment immediately adjacent to the principal
residence.
         Arbors and trellises.
         Coops and pens.
         Fixed recreational equipment.
         Gazebos.
         Open accessory off street parking spaces.
         Open fences not to exceed five feet (5') in height.
         Private garages, detached.
         Private garages, if attached or structurally a part of the principal
building.
         Private stables.
         Private swimming pools provided they are located in accordance with
regulations of this title and other applicable ordinances of the Village.
         Sheds.
         Solid walls and fences not exceeding six feet (6') in height (also see
10-3-7B5h).
         Tool rooms or other similar accessory buildings.
   Notwithstanding any provision in this subsection A to the contrary, on lots
or parcels located within the Wayne Village Historic District (as such district
is described in subsection
9-3-4B2 of this Code), solid fences not exceeding five feet (5') in height are
permitted within the required side and rear yards, and other permitted
accessory structures are permitted within the required rear yard provided the
same are located not less than ten feet (10') from the rear property line.
   B.   General Regulations:
      1.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
      2.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open
space become less than required by this title.
      3.   On streets where a front yard setback has been maintained for
buildings existing on lots or tracts having a frontage of fifty percent (50%)
or more of the total frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying
between two (2) intersecting streets, or a distance of one thousand eight
hundred (1,800) linear feet along such frontage, whichever is less, there shall
be maintained a front yard setback of not less than the average setback of the
aforementioned existing buildings, but in any event, not less than the minimum
front yard setback for the district in which the property is located.
      4.   On a vacant through or corner lot, either of the lot lines abutting
a street right-of-way line may be established as its front lot line, except
that where two (2) or more through lots are contiguous and a front lot line has
been duly established, the same street lot line shall thereafter be deemed to
be the front lot line of all such contiguous lots. On a through lot, a front
yard shall be provided along any lot line abutting a street.
      5.   Fences or walls, as the case might be, shall comply with the
following requirements in addition to those found elsewhere in the Zoning
Ordinance:
         a.   All fences shall be erected with the "good" or "decorative" side
facing outward.
         b.   The electrification of fencing, barbed wire or razor wire fencing
and the like are expressly prohibited; provided however, that fencing which
includes barbed wire or concertina strands on top of fences and fences over six
feet (6') in height on properties deemed to be in hazardous usage may be
permitted only by and in connection with a special use. As used herein the
electrification of fencing shall not include or prohibit a single electrified
or "hot" wire when attached to a fence enclosing a pasture or paddock and
intended for the purpose of confining livestock.
         c.   Snow fencing is prohibited except where placed by a governmental
entity to prevent the drifting of snow or where used to enclose a construction
site.
         d.   Chainlink fencing shall be permitted only as a special use. T-
posts and wire mesh fences shall be permitted only on lots or parcels of more
than forty (40) acres and only as a special use. When approved as a special
use, wire mesh fencing shall be permitted only if supported both vertically and
horizontally by wood posts and top rails.
         e.   The linear footage of entry structures shall not exceed ten
percent (10%) of the frontage of the lot on which they are placed.
         f.   Plastic flex fencing and the like are expressly prohibited.
         g.   All walls shall be of materials compatible with the principal
residence on a lot. All walls shall be constructed on a foundation as required
by title 8, "Building Regulations", of this Code.
         h.   Solid fences and walls shall not be permitted in the front yard
of lot as the term “front yard” is defined in subsection A2 of this section.
Solid fences and walls not exceeding six feet (6') in height may be located to
the rear of a principal residence provided the same are not located within the
required rear and/or side yard(s) for the zoning district in which such zoning
lot is located. The area to be enclosed by a solid fence or wall shall be
adjacent to the rear of the principal residence and shall not be greater than
the dwelling area of the first floor of such residence. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989;
amd. Ord. 10-08, 6-15-2010; Ord. 19-13, 8-20-2019; Ord. 20-16, 8-18-2020; Ord.
22-11, 10-4-2022; Ord. 22-17, 12-20-2022)
10-3-8: FLOODPLAIN AND WETLAND AREAS; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
The Village herewith adopts the DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and
Floodplain Ordinance comprehensive revision adopted by DuPage County on May 14,
2019 (the "Stormwater Ordinance"), except as modified by this section. (Ord.
94-22, 10-4-1994; amd. Ord. 06-15, 7-18-2006; Ord. 08-19, 9-16-2008; Ord. 2019-
04, 6-4-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
   A.   Administration: Administrative responsibility shall be with the
Building and Zoning Department. All reviews, calculations, designs, approvals
and inspections shall be the responsibility of the Village Engineer.
   B.   Professional Fees And Expenses: An applicant or property owner will
reimburse the Village for professional fees and expenses charged to the Village
by the Village Engineer for services performed relating to these provisions
plus an overhead charge in an amount to be specified by the Village by
ordinance from time to time in reimbursement to the Village for administrative
services performed. Such charges will be in addition to the fees relating to
building permits, if any. At the discretion of the Village, the applicant or
property owner may be required to deposit funds with the Village equal to the
estimated cost of the services to be provided by the Village Engineer. (Ord.
94-22, 10-4-1994)
10-3-9: EXCAVATION/FILLING PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Except as provided in section
10-2-2, "Definitions", of this title, or as permitted pursuant to an approved
final plat of subdivision, no excavation or filling of any property shall be
permitted without first obtaining an excavation/filling permit as required
herein. No excavation/filling permit shall be issued by an officer, department
or employee unless the application for such permit has been examined by the
Village Engineer who shall then certify that the proposed excavating and/or
filling complies with the provisions of this title. Any permits issued in
conflict with the provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   B.   Professional Fees And Expenses: Applicant or property owner shall
reimburse the Village fees and expenses charged to the Village by the Village
Engineer for services performed relating to these provisions plus an overhead
charge of up to twenty percent (20%) of such charges in reimbursement to the
Village for administrative services performed. Such charges will be in addition
to fees relating to building permits, if any. At the discretion of the Village,
the applicant or property owner may be required to deposit funds with the
Village equal to the estimated costs of the services to be provided by the
Village Engineer.
   C.   Requirements On Application: Every application for an excavation/
filling permit shall be accompanied by four (4) prints with the following
information:
      1.   The scale shall not be smaller than one inch equals forty feet (1" =
40').
      2.   Legal description of the property.
      3.   Existing topography with one foot (1') contour interval to USGS
datum.
      4.   Proposed topography.
      5.   Existing drainage structures within one hundred feet (100') of the
property line including storm sewers, field tile (if known), catch basins,
inlets, culverts and ditches.
      6.   Proposed drainage structures.
      7.   Existing tops of foundations on all adjacent properties.
      8.   Locations and elevations of proposed improvements including
foundation, septic fields and garages.
The drawings required above shall be prepared and signed by a professional
engineer, registered in the State of Illinois, and shall be based upon a survey
of the property showing actual dimensions and monumenting, as certified by a
Registered Illinois Land Surveyor.
   D.   Term Of Permit: Permit applications will be administered and issued by
the Building and Zoning Department. Permits will be valid for a period of one
year from the date of issuance; provided however, upon application to the
Building and Zoning Department, such permit may be extended for six (6) months.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-10: ARCHITECTURAL CONTROLS:
A landowner may not construct a single-family residence of substantially
identical design to that of an existing building within one thousand feet
(1,000') of said building. If a building permit is denied under the provisions
of this regulation, the applicant may appeal to the Village Board for a final
determination. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-3-11: HISTORIC AND RURAL PRESERVATION PROGRAM:
In any Residence District, any territory conveyed to and accepted by the
Village pursuant to the provisions of title 9, chapter 2 of this Code, shall be
permitted to develop in accordance with the exceptions established in section
9-2-4 of this Code. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
10-3-12: HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICTS:
Historic Preservation Districts may be established for the purposes stated in
title 9, chapter 3 of this Code, in accordance with the requirements and
procedures established therein, and shall constitute an overlay district or
dual zoning classification with the underlying residential or business
classification for the property so designated, pursuant to subsection
9-3-1A of this Code. The zoning classification of any property in a Historic
District shall be designated by adding "H" to the designated zoning
classification. The provisions of subsections
9-3-2B and C of this Code shall be enforced as if fully set forth in this
title. (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
10-3-13: MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN AN EQUESTRIAN EASEMENT AND ANY BUILDING OR
STRUCTURE OTHER THAN A FENCE:
In all zoning districts, there shall be a minimum ten foot (10') distance
between a designated equestrian easement and the nearest point of any building
or structure other than a fence. (Ord. 00-16, 8-15-2000; amd. Ord. 01-18, 12-4-
2001)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Enforcement
10-4-2: Zoning Enforcement Officer Duties
10-4-3: Certificates And Occupancy Permits
10-4-4: Certificates Of Appropriateness (Rep. by Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
10-4-5: Appeals (Rep. by Ord. 20-05, 4-21-2020)
10-4-6: Variations
10-4-7: Special Uses
10-4-8: Conditional Uses (Rep. by Ord. 00-02, 1-11-2000)
10-4-9: Amendments To Title
10-4-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The zoning enforcement officer is hereby designated and authorized to enforce
this title. However, it shall also be the duty of the building department
director, all officers, citizens and employees of the village, particularly of
all members of the police and public works departments, to assist the zoning
enforcement officer by reporting to him any new construction, reconstruction,
improper land uses or upon any seeming violation. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-4-2: ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER DUTIES:
The zoning enforcement officer of the village, or such deputies that have been
or shall be duly appointed by the corporate authorities, shall enforce this
title and in addition thereto, and in furtherance of said authority shall:
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   A.   With respect to structures, issue certificates of compliance with the
provisions of this title, and with respect to title 9 of this code, to the
building and zoning department, otherwise to owner or applicant. Issue
citations to the property owner for zoning violations or violations of the
requirements of title 9 of this code, issue reports of review for compliance to
the appropriate department officer, board or commission;
   B.   In conjunction with the building department director or his designee,
conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land, to determine
compliance with the terms of this title and title 9 of this code;
   C.   Maintain permanent records relating to zoning, including, but not
limited to, all maps, amendments, special uses, variations, appeals, historic
site and district designations, certificates of appropriateness, and
applications therefor; (Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
   D.   Forward to the village clerk all applications for special uses or
petitions for amendments to this title which may be filed initially in the
office of the zoning enforcement officer;
   E.   Forward to the village clerk copies of all applications for appeals,
variations and other matters to be referred to the zoning board of appeals
under this title;
   F.   Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the zoning board of appeals, plan commission or historic sites commission in
the exercise of their duties 1 ; and (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   G.   File a report with the village president and a copy to the village
board of trustees and the building and zoning department relative to findings
of the zoning enforcement officer on all reports of zoning violations or
violations of title 9 of this code, which are made to the zoning enforcement
officer by any citizen, village employee or village official. (Ord. 01-18, 12-
4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapters 2 and 3, and title 9, chapter 1 of this code.
10-4-3: CERTIFICATES AND OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   Zoning Certificates: No permit pertaining to the use of land or
buildings shall be issued unless the zoning enforcement officer has certified,
after examination, that it complies with all provisions of this title and with
the provisions of title 9 of this code.
   B.   Occupancy Permits: No land shall be occupied or used and no building
hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for
any purpose whatsoever until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
by the building and zoning department stating that the building complies with
all the building and health laws and ordinances and with the provisions of
these regulations and the regulations set forth in title 9 of this code. No
change of use shall be made in any building or part thereof now or hereafter
erected or altered without a permit having been issued by the building and
zoning department, and no permit shall be issued to make such change unless it
is in conformity with the provisions of this title and title 9 of this code,
and any amendments thereto. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1980; amd. Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
Nothing in this section shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy
or use of any existing building, except as may be necessary for the safety of
life and property.
Certificate for occupancy and compliance shall be applied for coincident with
the application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days
after the erection or alteration of such building has been completed. A record
of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the building and
zoning department and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building affected. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
10-4-4: CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS:
(Rep. by Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
10-4-5: APPEALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 20-05, 4-21-2020)
10-4-6: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The zoning board of appeals shall recommend and the village
board shall consider all applications for variations from the provisions of
this title, after a public hearing conducted by the zoning board, in specific
instances where the zoning board makes findings of fact in accordance with the
standards prescribed in subsection E of this section, and specifically finds
that there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in carrying out
the strict letter of the regulations of this title.
   B.   Initiation: An application for a variation may be made by any person,
firm or corporation, governmental office, department, board, bureau or
commission, which has a freehold interest in the land or land and improvements
described in such application, a possessory interest entitled to exclusive
possession, a contractual interest which may become a freehold interest, or an
option to purchase.
   C.   Processing: An application for a variation shall be filed with the
Village Clerk, who shall forward a copy of such application to the Zoning Board
of Appeals in accordance with applicable law. A copy of an application for a
variation within an historic district shall also be forwarded to the Historic
Sites Commission for its review.
The application shall contain such information as required by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer and the Zoning Board of Appeals, and shall include, at a
minimum:
      1.   A legal description and common address for the subject property;
      2.   A current plat of survey locating lot lines and all existing
improvements or structures;
      3.   A vicinity map indicating the location and distance from adjoining
principal and accessory uses from the subject property;
      4.   Satisfactory evidence of ownership by affidavit, contract purchase,
or disclosure of beneficial trust, indicating all parties or entities having an
interest in the property;
      5.   A project impact statement justifying the need for the variation and
how the standards in subsection E of this Section have been met.
      6.   A zoning review of the proposed project, prepared by the Zoning
Enforcement Officer, detailing the scope of the project and including section
(s) of the Village Code where the project is non-compliant with Zoning
Regulations.
   D.   Hearing: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall conduct a public hearing
after publication of a notice of time and place of such hearing, at least once
not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the
hearing, in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the Village.
At least fifteen (15) days before the hearing, written notice shall be served
on the owners of all properties located adjacent to or within two hundred fifty
feet (250') from the subject property for which the variation is requested, and
upon the Historic Sites Commission for every application for a variation within
an historic district.
Written notice of such hearing shall not be required if the applicant presents
the written consent of all such owners to the proposed variation at or prior to
the hearing. In any case, the failure of any such owner to receive the written
notice shall not deprive the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Village Board of
jurisdiction to consider the application for a variation, or invalidate, impair
or otherwise affect any decision concerning such a variation.
   E.   Standards For Variations: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not
recommend and the Village Board shall not grant a variation to the regulations
of this Title unless findings have been made based upon the evidence presented
at the public hearing, to show that:
      1.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located; and
      2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
      3.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality in which the property is located.
For the purpose of implementing these standards, and of considering whether
there are practical difficulties or particular hardship which may warrant a
variation from the regulations of this Title, the Zoning Board of Appeals and
the Village Board shall also determine the extent to which the following facts,
favorable to the applicant, have been established by the evidence:
      1.   The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
features of the specific property involved would result in a particular
hardship, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of
the regulations was to be carried out; and
      2.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based would
not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification; and
      3.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a desire
to make more money out of the property; and
      4.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property; and
      5.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in
which the property is located; and
      6.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of light
and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of fire, or
otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or impair
property values within the neighborhood.
   F.   Conditions For Approval: The zoning board of appeals may recommend such
conditions and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation, as may
be necessary to comply with the standards set forth in subsection E of this
section, to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of such variation upon
other property in the neighborhood, or to implement the general purpose and
intent of this title. Such conditions and restrictions may include, but shall
not be limited to, landscaping, wooden fencing or other screening from adjacent
properties.
   G.   Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this title
may be decided by the zoning board and the village board only in accordance
with the standards set forth in this section.
   H.   Decision: Upon receipt of a report from the zoning board of appeals,
including the requisite findings concerning the standards for a variation set
forth in subsection E of this section, and without further public hearing, the
village board may grant or deny any proposed variation, or may refer it back to
the zoning board of appeals for further consideration; provided that any
proposed variation which fails to receive a favorable recommendation from the
zoning board of appeals shall not be granted by the village board except by a
favorable vote of two- thirds (2/3) of all trustees holding office.
   I.   Automatic Revocation: Any variation permitting the erection or
alteration of a building or structure shall be null and void unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is issued and actual work is
substantially under way (a) within one year after the date the variation was
granted, provided, however, that the Owner may request, by written application
filed with the Village Clerk prior to the expiration of the one-year period, a
one-time six (6) month extension of such period, which extension may be granted
by the Village Board in its sole discretion, or (b) within eighteen (18) months
after the date the variation was granted provided the Owner, upon good cause,
requested and received a term of eighteen (18) months at the time the variance
was granted. (Ord. 00-03, 1-11-2000; amd. Ord. 19-18, 11-5-2019; Ord. 22-10, 9-
6-2022)
10-4-7: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within any one of which the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings or structures, as related
to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are
special uses which because of their unique character cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring lands and upon public
need for the particular use of the particular location. Such special uses fall
into five (5) categories: (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 97-19, 6-3-1997)
      1.   Uses operated by a public agency or publicly regulated utilities, or
uses traditionally affected with a public interest; except that any
modifications to an existing wireless tower or base station that do not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such tower or base station
shall be approved without a special use, and may not be denied. (Ord. 12-13, 7-
17-2012)
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
      3.   Planned developments meeting the objectives and requirements defined
in chapter 11 of this title.
      4.   Commercial equestrian and commercial stables meeting the
requirements defined in section
10-12-1 of this title. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
      5.   Private equestrian facilities meeting the requirements defined in
section
10-12-2 of this title. (Ord. 97-19, 6-3-1997)
   B.   Authority: Special uses shall be authorized or denied by the village
board in accordance with the statutes of the state applicable to amendments of
this title, and the regulations and conditions set forth in this title for
special uses.
No application for a special use shall be acted upon by the village board until
after a public hearing has been held by the plan commission, after due notice
by publication as provided by the applicable statutes of the state for
amendments, and the findings and recommendations of the plan commission have
been reported to the village board.
   C.   Initiation: An application for a special use may be made by any person
or by any office, department, board, bureau or commission, requesting or
intending to request a zoning certificate.
   D.   Processing: An application for a special use, in such form and
accompanied by such information as shall be established from time to time by
the plan commission, shall be filed with the village clerk and thereafter
processed in the manner prescribed heretofore for applications and amendments.
The village clerk shall also forward a copy of every application for a special
use within a historic district to the historic sites commission for review and
recommendation to the plan commission and to the village board.
   E.   Decisions: The village board, upon report and recommendation of the
plan commission without further hearing, may authorize or deny an application
for a special use in accordance with the statutes of the state applicable to
amendments or may refer it back to the plan commission further consideration.
No special use shall be authorized by the village board unless the special use
meets the following criteria, where applicable, for the proposed special use:
      1.   Is deemed necessary for the public convenience at that location;
      2.   Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety and welfare will be protected;
      3.   Would not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located;
      4.   Satisfies the standards and conditions required elsewhere in this
title applicable to the proposed special use. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
      5.   For property located in a historic preservation district set forth
in subsection
9-3-4B of this code, is compatible with and promotes the purposes of title 9,
chapter 3, "Historic Preservation Districts", of this code. (Ord. 05-30, 9-6-
2005)
   F.   Conditions: The plan commission may recommend, and the village board
provide, such conditions and restrictions upon the construction, location and
operation of a special use, including, but not limited to, provisions for off
street parking or loading as may be deemed necessary to promote the general
objectives of this title and to minimize injury to the value of the property in
the neighborhood. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-4-8: CONDITIONAL USES:
(Rep. by Ord. 00-02, 1-11-2000)
10-4-9: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE:
   A.   Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended from time to time by ordinance in
accordance with applicable statutes of the state. An amendment shall be granted
or denied by the village board only after a public hearing before the plan
commission and a report of its findings and recommendations has been submitted
to the village board.
   B.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the village
board, by the plan commission or by any resident of or owner of property in the
village.
   C.   Processing: An application for an amendment shall be filed with the
village clerk and thereafter introduced into the village board. Such
application shall be forwarded from the village board by the village clerk to
the plan commission with a request to hold a public hearing in accordance with
state statutes, and shall thereafter submit a report of its findings and
recommendations to the village board. The village clerk shall also forward a
copy of every application for an amendment within a historic district to the
historic sites commission for review and recommendation to the plan commission
and to the village board. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
The applicant for an amendment shall serve notice by certified mail of his
request for a zoning map amendment, which notice shall include the date and
time of a scheduled hearing, on all owners of record within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the subject property as measured from the lot line of such
property. An affidavit with respect to such mailing of notice must be filed
with the village clerk prior to any public hearing on such request unless
notice is excused or waived as provided below. A sign provided by the building
and zoning department shall be posted by the applicant indicating that a
request for a zoning map amendment is pending. Such sign shall be posted
continuously on all property lot lines fronting a public or private roadway for
fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled hearing and for at least fifteen (15)
days thereafter or until a final decision by the corporate authorities,
whichever is longer.
If the applicant for a zoning map amendment is not the owner of record or party
in interest of the property sought to be rezoned, notice of the application
shall also be served by certified mail on the owner of record of all parcels
included within the proposed map amendment.
If the plan commission finds that the interest of any objectors are adequately
represented at the public hearing, or if the map amendment is initiated by the
corporate authorities of the village in order to conform the zoning district to
existing residential uses, the corporate authorities may waive the provisions
of this section requiring notice to owners of record within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of the subject property and may waive the posting of a sign.
Posting of a sign shall not be required in the event the applicant does not
have a right of access to the property proposed to be rezoned.
Failure to serve notice by certified mail on adjoining property owners or to
post a sign on the property lot lines as provided in this subsection C shall
not deprive the plan commission or the corporate authorities of jurisdiction to
consider and approve any request for zoning map amendment, provided that all
other provisions of this section and the Illinois municipal code, as amended,
relating to zoning amendments are satisfied. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord.
95-08, 6-6-1995)
   D.   Decisions; Amendments:
      1.   Upon report of the plan commission and without further public
hearing, the village board may grant or deny any proposed amendment in
accordance with applicable statutes of the state, or may refer it back to the
plan commission for further consideration.
      2.   In case a written protest against any proposed amendment signed and
acknowledged by owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be
altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately
adjoining or across the alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage to be altered, is filed
with the village clerk, the amendment cannot be passed except on the favorable
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the corporate authorities. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING AND DEVELOPMENT FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Fee Schedule Established
10-5-2: Reimbursement Of Expenses And Professional Fees
10-5-3: Payment Of Fees
10-5-4: Fee Waiver
10-5-5: Penalty
10-5-1: FEE SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Zoning: The fees to be charged in connection with administering the
Village's Zoning Ordinance shall be as follows:
Zoning text amendment                         $ 150.00
Zoning Map amendment or special use
 Under 2 acres                                500.00
 2 to 5 acres                                 750.00
 5 to 10 acres                                1,000.00
 Over 10 acres                                1,000.00
 (plus $40.00 per acre in excess of 10 acres)
Zoning variation                              150.00
Zoning appeal                                 75.00
 
(Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996; amd. Ord. 00-02, 1-11-2000)
   B.   Annexation Fee Schedule: The fees to be charged in connection with
annexations shall be as follows:
 
Annexation without annexation agreement No fee
Annexation with annexation agreement    $1,000.00
 
   C.   Subdivision Fee Schedule: The fees to be charged in connection with
administering the Village's subdivision regulations shall be as follows:
Subdivisions:
 Preliminary plan                $500.00
 Final plan                      100.00
 Combined preliminary/final plan 600.00
 Reexamination fee               100.00
Planned Developments:
 Preliminary plan                500.00
 Final plan                      100.00
 Combined preliminary/final plan 600.00
 Reexamination fee               100.00
 
   D.   Site Development Permits: The fees to be charged in connection with the
issuance of any site development permit or excavation and fill permit shall be
as follows:
 
Under 1 acre disturbed    $100.00
1 to 5 acres disturbed    150.00
5 or more acres disturbed 200.00
Reexamination fee
 Under 5 acres            50.00
 5 or more acres          100.00
 
(Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996)
10-5-2: REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES AND PROFESSIONAL FEES:
In addition to the permit fees provided for herein, any applicant for rezoning,
annexation, subdivision approval, conditional use permit or any other land use
permit or proceeding shall reimburse the Village for all costs associated with
engineering review, plan review, legal review or legal document preparation,
filing and recording fees, publication of legal notices, postage, duplication
expense, court reporter fees, transcript fees and other costs, expenses or fees
of outside professional engineers, traffic consultants, attorneys or other
consultants necessarily retained in connection with review or processing of any
application made pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance or the subdivision
regulations. In addition thereto, the Village shall be reimbursed for Village
staff time as provided for in applicable ordinances or otherwise provided by
agreement. (Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996)
10-5-3: PAYMENT OF FEES:
   A.   Payment, Deposit For Fees And Expenses: All fees provided for herein
shall be paid at the time of initial application. The Village may request, as a
condition of processing the application, that the applicant deposit with the
Village funds equal to the estimated additional costs and professional fees as
provided herein and may require a written agreement by the applicant with
respect to payment.
   B.   Time Of Payment: Unless otherwise provided for herein, all other
reimbursements and fees are due a payable prior to issuance of any permit in
connection with the requested action or prior to final action by the corporate
authorities, such as passage of an ordinance or resolution approving or
disapproving an application. (Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996)
10-5-4: FEE WAIVER:
The failure by the Village to collect any fee otherwise due and payable at the
time of initial application shall not constitute a waiver of said fee. In their
discretion, the corporate authorities may authorize a waiver or reduction in
any fee provided for herein upon written application and for good cause shown.
(Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996)
10-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be liable to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Any fee which is
paid by check and which check is dishonored or returned for any reason by the
applicant's financial institution (other than fault on the part of the
Village), shall incur an additional processing charge of fifty dollars ($50.00)
plus any actual out-of-pocket expense incurred by the Village in connection
therewith. A penalty of one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of any fee or
penalty payable under this Chapter may be imposed by the Village if the
approval or permit is not applied for until after work is commenced. In any
action to recover any fee or penalty payable pursuant to this Chapter, the
Village shall also be entitled to recover its reasonable attorney fees and
related expenses. The corporate authorities may, in their discretion authorize
a waiver or reduction in any penalty provided for herein upon written
application and for good cause shown. (Ord. 96-15, 11-5-1996)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-6-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-6-2: Zoning Map
10-6-3: Boundaries Of Districts
10-6-4: Zoning Of Annexed Lands
10-6-5: Exemptions
10-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this title, the village is
hereby divided into the following districts:
Residence districts:
 W1 Single-family residence
 W2 Single-family residence
 W3 Single-family residence
 W4 Single-family residence
 W5 Single-family residence (riverfront)
Business districts:
 B Local shopping center
Historic districts:
 Historic preservation 1
Commercial equestrian:
 E Commercial equestrian
 
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 3 of this code.
10-6-2: ZONING MAP:
   A.   Map Adopted By Reference: The location and boundaries of the districts
established by this title are set forth on the zoning district map which is
incorporated herein and hereby made a part of this title. The said map,
together with everything shown thereon, and all amendments thereto, shall be as
much a part of this title as though fully set forth and described herein. Said
map shall be filed with the office of the village clerk, and certified copies
thereof in the office of the zoning enforcement officer, and shall be open to
public reference at all times during which those offices are open.
   B.   Current Map:
      1.   The current official zoning map of the Village of Wayne shall be
incorporated herein by reference and remain on file with the Village Clerk of
the Village of Wayne.
      2.   There is hereby established a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) which
shall be charged to any person desiring a copy of such map. Such fee shall be
paid to the building and zoning department or to the village clerk and shall be
applied to defray the cost of publication of the official map. (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989; amd. Ord. 00-07, 3-21-2000; Ord. 24-01, 3-5-2024; Ord. 25-01, 3-4-
2025)
10-6-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts, as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall
apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either the centerlines of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements, tract or lot lines or such lines
extended, unless otherwise indicated.
   B.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street, highway or railroad,
the depth of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on maps
measured at right angles from the center line of a street, highway or railroad,
and the length of frontage shall be in accordance with dimensions shown on the
Map from center lines of streets, highways or railroad rights of way unless
otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, the
regulations for either portion of the lot may, in the owner's discretion,
extend to the entire lot, but not more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the
boundary of the district. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   D.   Any ordinance placing a particular parcel described therein within a
specific zoning district shall control irrespective of the provisions contained
in subsections A through C above. (1998 Code)
10-6-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LANDS:
Any lands lying outside the corporate limits of the Village at the time of
adoption of this Title and which shall thereafter be annexed to the Village
shall thereupon become subject to the terms of this Title and shall be
classified into the zoning district or districts as designated on the
Comprehensive Plan Map of the Village then in effect, or if no such designation
exists, the in the W1 Single-Family Residence District. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-6-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Public Utility Uses: The following public utility uses are permitted in
any district: conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, pipelines, mains, valves, or
any other similar ground level or below ground level distributing equipment,
provided that installation shall conform with rules and regulations of the
applicable administrative authorities.
Existing poles, towers, wires and cables installed above ground are also
permitted. However, replacement of such facilities or newly constructed
facilities shall be installed underground.
   B.   Agriculture Uses: Buildings, structures or land used for "agriculture",
as herein defined, except that such use established after the effective date
hereof, shall conform with all other regulations of the district in which it is
located; and buildings for shelter of livestock or poultry shall be not less
than two hundred feet (200') from a property line adjoining a street and fifty
feet (50') from all other property lines. Furthermore, if such buildings or
structures exist on a lot or parcel upon which a principal residence exists,
such buildings and structures shall be in the rear yard. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Home Occupations
10-7-2: Signs
10-7-3: Building Height Limitations
10-7-4: Off-Street Parking
10-7-5: Hens, Coops And Pens As Permitted Accessory Uses
10-7-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   A home occupation shall be treated as an accessory use, incidental and
secondary to the principal use of a dwelling for dwelling purposes. The
operation of the home occupations shall not infringe on or impose undue
hardships on neighborhood residential properties by virtue of conducting such
use in a manner that causes:
      1.   Unwarranted vehicular traffic.
      2.   Unusual noise.
      3.   On-street or off-street other than as allowed by subsection B10 of
this Section.
      4.   Intensity of use not normally encountered by low contact home
occupation.
      5.   Interference with neighboring property owners from being able to
reasonably enjoy their own property.
   B.   Home Occupation uses shall be permitted in all Residence Zoning
Districts and shall meet all of the following requirements:
      1.   The home occupation shall be carried on only by the person or
persons maintaining a dwelling therein, or members of the immediate family.
      2.   No more than one home occupation shall be operated within a single
dwelling unit.
      3.   The area of the dwelling which is used for the home occupation shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the gross floor area of the dwelling, or
five hundred (500) square feet, whichever is smaller.
      4.   Except for home offices, which may be located in a detached
structure, the home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit, and not in or from any detached or attached garage or other accessory
structure. All related storage shall be enclosed in the dwelling, and no
storage of any dangerous or hazardous substance shall be permitted. There shall
not be any outdoor storage of product and equipment related to the home
business.
      5.   The home occupation shall require no structural alterations or
construction features to be made to the dwelling or any accessory structure to
accommodate the home occupation, and no special equipment which is not required
for a single-family dwelling shall be installed or attached to the walls,
floors or ceilings of the dwelling or any accessory structure for the operation
of the home occupation.
      6.   There shall be no separate entrance for the home occupation.
      7.   There shall be no exterior sign or display of any kind in
conjunction with the home occupation.
      8.   The home occupation shall not require any receipt or delivery of
merchandise by other than a private passenger vehicle, parcel service or
regular letter carrier.
      9.   The home occupation shall not involve an on-site retail business,
manufacturing business or repair shop of any kind, or any business which
includes the sale of goods which are stored and delivered to the buyer on the
zoning lot, except as incidental to a service which is permitted as a home
occupation.
      10.   The home occupation shall not result in more than three (3)
vehicles parked simultaneously on the zoning lot for customers, clients or
employees of the home occupation.
      11.   The home occupation shall not be conducted between the hours of
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on any day.
      12.   The operation of the home occupation shall not produce any noise,
noxious odors, vibrations, glare, fumes or electrical interference detectable
to normal sensory perception outside the dwelling structure. (Ord. 01-09, 6-19-
2001; amd. Ord. 23-01, 1-17-2023; Ord. 23-07, 5-16-2023)
10-7-2: SIGNS:
The following signs are permitted in Residence Districts, subject to the
limitations herein set out:
   A.   Unilluminated nameplates.
   B.   Unilluminated temporary signs, subject to the following:
      1.   There shall be not more than one sign per lot, except that on a
corner lot two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted. Signs of
up to four (4) square feet in area may be located at a lot line. No sign shall
exceed twelve (12) square feet in area.
      2.   Signs greater than four (4) square feet may not be closer than eight
feet (8') to any side and rear lot line, nor closer to the front lot line than
one-half (1/2) the depth of the minimum required front yard in the district in
which it is located. Such a sign, when affixed flat against the building, shall
not project higher than one story or twenty feet (20') above curb level,
whichever is lower; and a ground sign shall not project higher than eight feet
(8') above ground grade.
      3.   The property is being offered for sale through a licensed real
estate agent, or when the sign is owned by the property owner and that property
is offered for sale by the owner through advertising either online or in a
local newspaper of general circulation; and for a period of thirty (30) days
following the date on which a contract of sale has been executed by a person
purchasing the property.
   C.   Signs required to provide notice of request for zoning change are
permitted as provided in section
10-4-9 of this title.
   D.   The developer of a subdivision may request that the Plan Commission
approve the design, construction and location of signs larger than twelve (12)
square feet. The Plan Commission may approve the use of larger signs for a
period of up to two (2) years or until the subdivision is substantially
completed, whichever is sooner. (Ord. 19-14, 8-20-2019)
10-7-3: BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
The maximum vertical distance as defined for building height shall be thirty
six feet (36') unless a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-7-4: OFF-STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   To protect and preserve the appearance and character of
neighborhoods within the village through screening of off-street parking and
limiting the number and type of vehicles parked on a lot.
      2.   To require adequate protection for contiguous property against
undesirable effects from the creation and operation of parking areas.
      3.   Parking and storage of motor vehicles on any lot zoned in a Single-
Family Residence District shall be in accordance with the following
requirements:
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below:
 
                               Any motor vehicle or trailer operated for the
                               transportation of persons or property in the
                               furtherance of any commercial or industrial
                               enterprise, for hire or not for hire. Any
                               passenger vehicle, passenger van, SUV, pick-up
                               truck, or sprinter style van, (but no box trucks
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE:            nor trailers) which bears no indicia of
                               commercial use, lettering or logos, even if used
                               in furtherance of a commercial enterprise, shall
                               not be deemed a commercial vehicle for purposes
                               of this section. Provided, however, that no such
                               vehicle shall exceed ten feet (10') tall nor
                               exceed any Village road weight limits.
                               An area or path consisting of a graded surface
                               of gravel, concrete, bituminous asphalt or
                               concrete or brick pavers upon which vehicles may
DRIVEWAY:                      be driven or parked, which leads from a street
                               or road and which may provide access to a
                               residential garage and/or parking area,
                               installed in accordance with a permit issued by
                               the Village Engineer.
                               Located within a permanent structure permitted
ENCLOSED:                      under the applicable zoning district
                               regulations.
HORSE TRAILER:                 A trailer used exclusively for the transport of
                               horses.
                               Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
                               least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or
                               other parts have been removed, or on which the
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE:      engine, wheels or other parts have been altered,
                               damaged or otherwise so treated that the vehicle
                               is incapable of being driven under its own motor
                               power.
                               Motor vehicles (other than as hereinabove
                               described) not exceeding ten feet (10') in
                               height such as, but not limited to, snowmobiles,
OTHER VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:   personal watercraft, boats, motorcycles, all-
                               terrain vehicles, trailers used for transporting
                               any of the foregoing, car trailers, car haulers,
                               and any enclosed or unenclosed trailer, but not
                               including horse trailers.
                               The following commercial vehicles are permitted:
                               passenger vehicles, vans and pickup trucks,
                               which may include racks for storing ladders and
PERMITTED COMMERCIAL VEHICLES: other equipment, utility cabinets, and apparatus
                               used to cover pickup truck beds for purposes of
                               conveying equipment or merchandise, as depicted
                               below:
 
Examples of Permitted Commercial Vehicles:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1551.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1553.png]
 
PROHIBITED VEHICLE:    Any vehicle in excess of twenty-five feet (25') in
length or ten feet (10') in height. Additional prohibited vehicles are: semi-
trucks or tractors, tractor trailers, flat bed or stake bed trucks, step vans,
ambulances, tow trucks, car carriers, tanker trucks, buses, construction
vehicles, box trucks, food trucks, or trailers over twenty-five feet (25') long
as depicted below:
   Examples of Prohibited Vehicles:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1583.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1585.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1587.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1589.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1591.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1593.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/1368e9c492e1f0df530409ec68d08ea7f30a9d08/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1595.png]
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any camping trailer, motor home, mini- motor home, travel
trailer, truck camper, or van camper which is used primarily for recreational
purposes and is not used commercially.
SETBACK LINE: That line established by the face of the principal structure
which is nearest to the front yard of a lot.
SUBSTANTIALLY SCREENED OR SCREENED: Screened year-round a minimum of seventy-
five percent (75%), on not less than three (3) sides, from adjacent residential
properties and public view, by landscaping consisting of a planted earth berm,
densely planted evergreen shrubs or trees or a combination of both, as follows:
   1.   In front yards, permanent screening at least four feet (4') in height
shall be constructed and maintained in areas adjacent to permitted side yard
parking.
   2.   In side and rear yards, permanent peripheral screening at least five
feet (5') in height shall be constructed and maintained in areas adjacent to
permitted parking areas, to be located between the parking area and the lot
line.
A single-family residence or permitted accessory structure may serve as part of
the screen. Existing natural vegetation may also serve as all or part of the
required screen provided such natural vegetation provides the same degree of
screening year-round, as required herein. In the event such natural vegetation
is used as a screen, the same shall be maintained in such a manner as to
constitute a screen equivalent to that required by this definition. Tarps or
similar items are not allowed to be used as a screen.
   B.   Minimum Spaces: Not less than one parking space shall be provided for
each licensed passenger vehicle to be located on a single-family lot, subject
to the provisions of subsection C of this section.
   C.   Single-Family Zoning District: Off-street parking of vehicles on
property located in a Single-Family Zoning District is permitted as follows:
      1.   On Lots In The Wayne Village Historic District: No more than three
(3) unenclosed and unscreened vehicles may be parked or located on a single-
family lot in front of the setback line, one of which may be a commercial
vehicle (without an attached trailer). No vehicle defined as an other vehicle
or trailer may be parked or located in front of the setback line unless
substantially screened or enclosed. No recreational vehicle may be parked or
located on any portion of a lot unless substantially screened or enclosed. All
vehicles must be operable and parked on a graded surface per 10-7-4-D.
Additional parking for a temporary event is allowed.
      2.   On Lots Of Record Two Acres or Less Not Located Within The Wayne
Village Historic District: No more than five (5) unenclosed and unscreened
vehicles may be parked or located on a single-family lot, one of which may be a
commercial vehicle. No other commercial vehicle or recreational vehicle or
other vehicle or trailer may be parked or located on any portion of a lot
unless substantially screened or enclosed. All vehicles must be operable and
parked on a graded surface per 10-7-4-D. Additional parking for a temporary
event is allowed.
      3.   On Lots Of Record of More than Two Acres: No more than six (6)
unenclosed and unscreened vehicles may be parked or located on a single-family
lot, one of which may be a commercial vehicle. No other commercial vehicle or
recreational vehicle or other vehicle or trailer may be parked or located on
any portion of a lot unless substantially screened or enclosed. All vehicles
must be operable and parked on a graded surface per 10-7-4-D. Additional
parking for a temporary event is allowed.
   D.   Surface: All parking or location of any vehicle or trailer on a single-
family lot shall be on a graded surface of gravel, concrete, bituminous asphalt
or concrete or brick pavers, and all installation of such spaces shall be
pursuant to a permit granted by the Village.
   E.   License And Tags: All motor vehicles or trailers parked or located
within any unenclosed parking area on a single-family lot shall display current
license plates or tags. Any vehicle or trailer not having a license plate or
tag shall be parked or located only within a completely enclosed structure.
   F.   Inoperable Vehicle Or Trailer: No inoperable motor vehicle or trailer
shall be parked or located on a single-family lot except within a completely
enclosed structure.
   G.   Sale Vehicles: Only vehicles or trailers which are owned by the
resident, including, but not limited to, snowmobiles, personal watercraft or
all-terrain vehicles, may be displayed for sale on the driveway of any single-
family lot; provided that, such display of vehicles for sale shall be limited
to no more than thirty (30) days per calendar year.
   H.   Parking In Vacant Lots: No vehicle or trailer shall be parked or
located on any vacant single-family lot unless such lot is part of an occupied
zoning lot and such vehicle or trailer is owned by the resident of such zoning
lot.
   I.   Commercial Vehicles: Except where permitted under subsection C of this
section, no commercial vehicle shall be parked on any single-family lot unless
substantially screened from view or enclosed, unless such vehicle is providing
a required service for the dwelling on such lot, and then only for the period
of time which is required to provide such service.
   J.   Recreational Vehicles: Where permitted under subsection C of this
section not more than one recreational vehicle may be parked or located on a
single-family lot; provided that, such vehicle shall be parked only behind the
setback line on such lot. The recreational vehicle may be parked in front of
the setback line for a period not to exceed seventy-two (72) hours within any
one calendar year for purposes of loading and unloading. No recreational
vehicle parked on a single-family lot shall be used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes within the Village.
   K.   Repair Or Service: No motor vehicle repair or service shall be
permitted on any unenclosed parking space on a single-family lot for a
cumulative period in excess of twenty-four (24) hours per calendar month.
   L.   Other Regulations:
      1.   Parking spaces used for the parking of "other vehicles and
trailers," as defined in this section, shall be substantially screened or
enclosed, and shall be located on a graded surface as required under subsection
D of this section.
      2.   No boat or watercraft exceeding two hundred fifty (250) pounds in
weight (unladen) or exceeding fourteen feet (14') in length, or any motorized
boat or watercraft shall be parked, placed, stored or located in or on any
pond, lake, retention pond or other body of water between dusk and dawn,
irrespective of whether such boat is enclosed, unenclosed or substantially
screened, provided however, that this prohibition shall not apply to the Fox
River and boats parked, placed, stored or located thereon.
      3.   No watercraft shall be stored on a lot, for a period exceeding ten
(10) days, unless it is stored in a fully enclosed permitted structure.
   M.   Horse Trailers: This section shall not be applied to the regulation of
horse trailers (as defined in subsection A of this section), provided that,
horse trailers may only be parked or located on lots in a Single-Family Zoning
District of two acres or more and no horse trailer in excess of thirty feet
(30') in length and no more than two (2) individual horse trailers may be
parked or located on any such lot of record or any such zoning lot within any
Single-Family Zoning District.
   N.   Limit On Commercial Vehicles: Where permitted under subsection C of
this section and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, no
more than one (1) commercial vehicle may be parked or located unscreened or
unenclosed on any residential lot.
(Ord. 01-08, 6-19-2001; amd. Ord. 03-15, 7-15-2003; Ord. 24-06, 7-3-2024)
10-7-5: HENS, COOPS AND PENS AS PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Permitted Accessory Uses: The following is a permitted accessory use on
a residential lot of eight thousand (8,000) square feet or more in Residential
Zoning Districts W-1 through W-5: no more than one coop and pen and, in
addition to and without limiting the number of other livestock animals
permitted on the lot (if any), no more than the greater of either six (6) hens
per lot or four (4) hens per acre up to a maximum of twelve (12) hens on any
lot, further provided that any lot adjoining smaller lots shall not be
permitted to keep or maintain more than the maximum number of hens permitted on
the smallest adjoining lot (if any). Residential lots that are less than eight
thousand (8,000) square feet or that adjoin a residential lot less than eight
thousand (8,000) square feet are not permitted to build, keep or maintain
coops, pens or hens.
   The entirety of this section, and all permissions granted by it, will expire
and be deemed null and void April 1, 2035 unless and for such time as it may be
extended (if at all) by subsequent ordinance issued by the Village Board. (Ord.
19-13, 8-20-2019; amd. Ord. 21-05, 3-16-2021; Ord. 23-06, 4-20-2023; Ord. 25-
03, 4-1-2025)
ARTICLE A. W1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Permitted Uses
10-7A-2: Special Uses
10-7A-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-7A-4: Yards
10-7A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the W1 single-family residence district:
   A.   Principal Uses:
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   B.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses customarily incidental to the permitted
principal uses, including, but not limited to, the following:
All accessory buildings or structures shall be located in the rear yard unless
attached to the principal building.
Family burying grounds, provided that the lot on which same are located is not
less than fifty (50) acres in area and the location of the family burying
ground is not less than two hundred feet (200') from the front, rear and side
lot lines.
Private garages, private stables and noncommercial pursuit of agriculture;
provided that no more than four (4) horses or other livestock animals shall be
kept on a lot which is four (4) acres in area, and that one additional horse or
other livestock animal shall be permitted for each acre over four (4) acres.
(Ord. 10-01, 1-19-2010)
10-7A-2: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are allowable special uses:
Buildings and structures used for municipal, civic or community purposes,
including, but not limited to, fire and police stations.
Certain commercial, office or business uses:
   A.   Whenever any parcel of land, or portion thereof constituting a zoning
lot shall be rezoned from the B local shopping center district or similar
classification to any residence district, the owner or owners of such parcel
may apply within one hundred twenty (120) days of such rezoning or May 5, 1997,
whichever date shall last occur, for a special use for any previously lawful,
conforming use in the B local shopping center district located or established
on such parcel at the time of rezoning.
The corporate authorities shall grant such special use, in lieu of any status
as a legal nonconforming use (as otherwise provided in chapter 13 of this
title) without further hearing or notice if they find that the use was lawfully
existing at the time of a zoning map amendment rezoning the property. The
corporate authorities shall provide in such special use permit for the
following:
      1.   Permitting the construction, reconstruction, alteration or repair of
any structures on the parcel without regard to the percentage of such
structures to be constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired, so long as
the existing use is not changed or increased in intensity (replacement of an
existing structure which otherwise satisfies the requirements of the special
use permit and this subsection shall not be deemed to be an expansion or
increase in intensity merely because the new structure has a greater ground
floor area or total floor area) and so long as the total floor area of
structures devoted to such use shall not exceed five thousand (5,000) square
feet;
      2.   Providing that any new structure or remodeled, reconstructed or
altered existing structure (if more than 50 percent of an existing structure)
shall be designed and constructed to appear as a single-family detached
residence (if the principal building) or as a residential accessory structure
(if an accessory building);
      3.   Providing for site plan, landscaping and architectural approval of
such structures;
      4.   Providing for minimum and maximum off street parking, and the
location thereof;
      5.   Providing for external lighting and signage controls;
      6.   Providing for the term of such use, not to exceed fifty (50) years,
so long as the parcel shall remain under the ownership or control of the
current owner, their immediate family or lineal descendants;
      7.   Providing for a onetime transfer of ownership to unrelated third
parties, so long as the then existing use is not expanded or enlarged. In such
event, the existing use may continue for the balance of said fifty (50) year
term;
      8.   Providing for such other conditions as shall be in harmony with the
purpose of this special use provision and the conservation of residential
areas.
This special use shall not be available for any property not located in a B
district (or similar zoning classification) prior to rezoning, or for any
property not subject to an existing business use as of the time of such
rezoning.
Chainlink fencing, fences over six feet (6') in height and fencing which
includes barbed wire or concertina strands on top of fences on a lot or parcel
deemed to be a hazardous use.
Churches or other houses of worship.
Growing of crops in the open, provided that no sales are conducted from a store
or stand erected or maintained on the premises.
Libraries, public.
Off street parking spaces and off street loading berths accessory to applicable
special uses allowed herein, in accordance with the number of such spaces and
berths and standards of design and construction required by the corporate
authorities.
Outdoor recreation, private or public, not operated for profit such as:
swimming pools, tennis courts, golf courses, but not miniature or par 3 courses
or commercially operated driving ranges; equestrian sports, horse shows and
hunter trials; dog shows and field trials; hunt clubs; gun clubs; conservation
clubs; fishing ponds; private parks and playgrounds; and accessory buildings or
structures for accessory uses customarily incidental to such special uses,
including, but not limited to, kennels and clubhouses. Such accessory buildings
or structures shall be in the rear yard. (See section
10-3-5 of this title.)
Parking lots serving any permitted or special use allowed by the regulations of
any residence district where such residence district or portion thereof is
located within any historic district now existing or hereafter established
pursuant to section
9-3-1 (historic preservation districts) of this code. Such parking lots shall
satisfy the following requirements:
   A.   Parking lots accessory to dwellings shall be located on the same zoning
lot as the use served. Spaces accessory to uses other than dwellings may be
located on a lot adjacent to, or directly across a street or alley from, the
lot occupied by the use served, but in no case at a distance in excess of three
hundred feet (300') from such use.
   B.   Unless otherwise approved by the historic sites commission, in
conformity with the Wayne "Historic Design Guideline Manual", as amended from
time to time, parking lots shall be surfaced either with concrete not less than
six inches (6") in thickness or with bituminous surface of not less than two
inches (2") in depth on top of a compacted, crushed stone base not less than
six inches (6") in depth, or with any surface equal or superior to either of
these types. Such surfacing requirements shall be applied to all existing
unsurfaced parking lots at the time of change or enlargement of a nonconforming
use.
   C.   Adequate provision shall be made for the management of stormwater in
accordance with village ordinances and standards to ensure that such water
shall not flow onto adjoining property or public way in a quantity or manner
that would be detrimental to the normal use thereof. When parking lots are
located within designated floodplain areas, planning, design and construction
of said parking facilities shall comply with applicable requirements of the
village's floodplain control ordinances and regulations.
   D.   All vehicle parking areas containing more than five (5) parking spaces
which: 1) adjoin or front on a public way, 2) adjoin property situated in a
residence district or 3) adjoin any institutional premises shall be effectively
screened on such sides thereof by a densely planted compact hedge or other
landscaping not less than three feet (3') nor more than eight feet (8') in
height, designed, installed and maintained so as to sufficiently prevent
headlight illumination of the public way or of adjoining properties, as the
case might be.
   E.   No parking lot shall be located within a required front yard nor be
located closer to any street line than the established building line on
adjacent properties nor closer than the yard requirements for the zoning
district in which the parking lot is located. Any hedge or landscaping
installed in connection with any parking lot shall be subject to the setback
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located in the same manner
as a building or structure.
   F.   The entrances and exits to and from the parking lot shall be of such
number, location and width as to avoid traffic congestion and interference.
Each entrance to and exit from the parking lot shall be at least twenty feet
(20') distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district,
except where egress and ingress to the parking lot is provided from a public
way or public alley separating the residential areas from the proposed parking
lot.
   G.   Any lighting used to illuminate off street parking areas shall be
directed away from residential properties and public streets in such a way as
not to create a nuisance. However, in no case shall such lighting exceed two-
tenths (0.2) foot-candle measured at the lot line. All lighting shall conform
to the standards adopted in the Wayne site plan regulations, title 11, chapter
6 of this code.
   H.   All parking lots shall be provided with continuous curbs or wheel stops
so located on the periphery of parking lots that no part of parked vehicles
shall extend beyond the property line. Such curbs shall be properly anchored or
secured.
   I.   All signs, markers or any other methods used to indicate direction of
traffic movement and location of parking spaces shall be maintained in a neat
and legible condition. All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good
condition with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed.
The surfacing of the parking lot, shall be maintained in good condition
throughout its use for parking purposes. No cleaning or maintenance of parking
lots utilizing motorized equipment may be performed between eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. and five thirty o'clock (5:30) A.M. each day, except for
the removal of snow.
   J.   No parking lot shall be used for any purpose other than for the parking
of motor vehicles.
Parks and playgrounds: publicly owned and operated.
Private equestrian facilities as a special use. (See section
10-12-2 of this title.)
Private recreational clay target shooting clubs on tracts of land of forty (40)
acres or more located in the W1 and W2 single- family residence districts only,
may be permitted subject to the conditions set forth in chapter 11 of this
title and upon such other conditions and restrictions as the corporate
authorities may deem appropriate. Such conditions and restrictions shall
include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Approval of a site plan by the corporate authorities providing for not
less than a fifty foot (50') "no firearms discharge" zone around the entire
perimeter of the tract;
   B.   Approval by the corporate authorities of any additional buildings or
alterations or additions to existing buildings, with the exception of normal
repair and maintenance;
   C.   Provision that the use may continue only for so long as the tract
consists of a minimum of forty (40) acres under the ownership or control of the
club;
   D.   Use of the tract shall be for recreational clay target shooting between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. only;
   E.   Membership in any club obtaining a special use permit under the
provisions of this section shall be limited to sixty (60) shooting members,
unless the corporate authorities, after further notice and public hearing,
shall determine either that no major change in the intensity of use will occur
or that further conditions on the use are necessary;
   F.   Submission of annual sworn statements by the club as to the number of
shooting members;
   G.   Reasonable notification to the village chief of police of specific
special events, including, but not limited to, shooting functions where no club
members are present;
   H.   Use of the clubhouse and related structures and facilities shall be
solely for the private, noncommercial use of the club, its members, invitees
and guests;
   I.   There shall be no sale of alcoholic beverages and no inventory of
alcoholic beverages intended for resale;
   J.   Decorative lighting, lighting for security purposes and all other
lighting shall be subject to approval of a lighting plan by the corporate
authorities and must be so designed and constructed (other than normal and
customary residential lighting), such that direct rays of light shall not beam
upon any part of any existing adjoining residence;
   K.   No outdoor public address systems shall be permitted;
   L.   Fencing and signage shall be subject to approval by the corporate
authorities;
   M.   No firearms other than shotguns shall be permitted and no hunting with
firearms shall be allowed; shotgun slug or "00 buckshot" is prohibited.
Railroad right of way.
Residential planned developments.
Schools, public, parochial, or private, boarding or nonboarding: elementary,
junior high, high or junior college.
Sewage treatment plants, water filtration plants, pumping stations and
reservoirs, public.
Temporary buildings and uses necessary for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year.
Wire mesh fences and fences constructed with the use of T-posts shall be
allowed only on lots or parcels having a minimum area of forty (40) acres.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 97-07, 2-4-1997; Ord. 97-19, 6-3-1997; Ord.
97-29, 11-18-1997; Ord. 99-19, 10-19-1999; Ord. 00-02, 1-11-2000; Ord. 05-30,
9-6-2005; Ord. 10-07, 6-15-2010; Ord. 10-08, 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-7A-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than four (4) acres. See definition of "lot area" in
section
10-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Lot Width: Not less than three hundred feet (300').
   C.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See section
10-7-3 of this chapter.)
   D.   Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One story dwellings: Ground floor area not less than two thousand
two hundred (2,200) square feet, excluding the garage.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Ground floor area not less
than one thousand six hundred fifty (1,650) square feet, total floor not less
than two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet, excluding the garage.
      3.   Dwellings constructed after the date of enactment of this title
shall have an attached private garage with a minimum of two (2) stalls and a
maximum of four (4) stalls. (See section
10-3-5 of this title for permitted additional private garage stalls.) (Ord. 89-
13, 5-16-1989)
10-7A-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard not less than fifty feet
(50') in width, except that on a corner lot a side yard adjoining a street
shall be not less than one hundred feet (100') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth. (Ord. 89-13,
5-16-1989)
ARTICLE B. W2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Permitted Uses
10-7B-2: Special Uses
10-7B-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-7B-4: Yards
10-7B-1: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Principal Uses: Those uses permitted in a W1 district, except a
guesthouse and except in the noncommercial pursuit of agriculture and private
stables as accessory uses, there shall be not more than two (2) horses or more
than two (2) other livestock animals kept on a lot containing two (2) acres of
area, and on lots over two (2) acres in area, no more than one additional horse
or other livestock animal in excess of two (2) shall be permitted for each one
acre of lot area over two (2) acres. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   B.   Accessory Uses: Private stables, detached garages and accessory
buildings or structures incidental to such permitted use shall be located in
the rear yard. (See section
10-3-5 of this title.) (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 95-07, 5-2-1995; Ord.
00-02, 1-11-2000)
10-7B-2: SPECIAL USES:
Those special uses allowed in the W1 district.
Accessory buildings and structures incidental to such special use shall be
located in the rear yard, not less than fifty feet (50') from the rear and side
lot line of a residential lot. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 99-19, 10-19-
1999; Ord. 07-15, 10-1-2007; Ord. 10-07, 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-7B-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than two (2) acres. See definition of "lot area" in
section
10-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Lot Width: Not less than two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One-story dwellings: Ground floor area not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet, excluding the garage.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Ground floor area not less
than one thousand six hundred fifty (1,650) square feet, total floor area not
less than two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet, excluding the garage.
      3.   Dwellings constructed after the date of enactment of this title
shall have an attached private garage with a minimum of two (2) stalls and a
maximum of four (4) stalls.
   D.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See section
10-7-3 of this chapter.) (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-7B-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than sixty feet (60') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard not less than thirty
feet (30') in width, except that on a corner lot a side yard adjoining a street
shall be not less than sixty feet (60') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth. (Ord. 89-13,
5-16-1989)
ARTICLE C. W3 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Permitted Uses
10-7C-2: Special Uses
10-7C-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-7C-4: Yards
10-7C-1: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses permitted in a W2 district except private stables and noncommercial
pursuit of agriculture shall not be permitted accessory uses on a lot less than
two (2) acres in area, and regulations for the W2 district governing such
accessory uses shall apply on a lot two (2) acres and over in area. (Ord. 89-
13, 5-16-1989)
10-7C-2: SPECIAL USES:
Those special uses allowed in the W2 district, except that private recreational
clay target shooting clubs shall not be permitted.
Accessory buildings and structures shall be located in the rear yard, not less
than forty feet (40') from the rear and side lot lines of a residential lot.
Utility and public service uses including:
Electric substations or distribution stations.
Railroad passenger stations.
Other public or private utility service uses. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord.
10-07, 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-7C-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than one acre. See definition of "lot area" in
section
10-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Lot Width: Not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') wide for a lot
one acre or more in area.
   C.   Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One story dwellings: Ground floor area not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet, excluding the garage.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Ground floor area not less
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, total floor area not less
than two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet, excluding the garage. (Ord.
89-13, 5-16-1989)
      3.   Dwellings constructed after the date of enactment of this title
shall have an attached private garage, the total square footage of which shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total square footage of the dwelling
unit, provided however, that an attached garage with a minimum of two (2)
stalls shall be provided, irrespective of said twenty percent (20%) limitation.
(Ord. 10-07, 6-15-2010)
   D.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See section
10-7-3 of this chapter.) (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-7C-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than forty feet (40').
   B.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard not less than twenty
five feet (25') in width with the two (2) side yards totaling not less than
fifty five feet (55'), except on a corner lot a side yard adjoining a street
shall not be less than forty feet (40') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than sixty feet (60') in depth. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
ARTICLE D. W4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7D-1: Permitted Uses
10-7D-2: Special Uses
10-7D-3: Lot Area Requirements
10-7D-4: Yards
10-7D-1: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses permitted in a W2 district except private stables and noncommercial
pursuit of agriculture shall not be a permitted accessory use on a lot less
than two (2) acres in area, and regulations for the W2 district governing such
accessory uses shall apply on a lot two (2) acres and over in area. (Ord. 89-
13, 5-16-1989)
Detached garages shall not be permitted in the W4 single-family residence
district unless rebuilt or reconstructed as a result of the destruction or
demolition of an existing detached garage, and only where the principal
residence does not contain an attached garage. (Ord. 95-07, 5-2-1995)
10-7D-2: SPECIAL USES:
Those special uses allowed in the W2 district, except that private equestrian
facilities, and private recreational clay target shooting clubs shall not be
permitted.
Accessory buildings and structures shall be located in the rear yard, not less
than forty feet (40') from the rear and side lot lines of a residential lot.
Utility and public service uses including:
Electric substations or distribution stations.
Railroad passenger stations.
Other public or private utility service uses. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord.
10-07, 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-7D-3: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet. See
definition of "lot area" in section
10-2-2 of this title. Roads must be dedicated to and accepted by the village or
conveyed to a homeowners' association approved by the village.
   B.   Lot Width: Not less than one hundred thirty feet (130') wide for a lot
one acre or more in area.
   C.   Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One story dwellings: Ground floor area not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet, excluding the garage.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Ground floor area not less
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, total floor area not less
than two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet, excluding the garage. (Ord.
89-13, 5-16-1989)
      3.   Dwellings constructed after the date of enactment of this title
shall have an attached private garage, the total square footage of which shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total square footage of the dwelling
unit, provided however, that an attached garage with a minimum of two (2)
stalls shall be provided, irrespective of said twenty percent (20%) limitation.
(Ord. 10-07, 6-15-2010)
   D.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See section
10-7-3 of this chapter.) (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-7D-4: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than forty feet (40').
   B.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard not less than twenty
five feet (25') in width with the two (2) side yards totaling not less than
fifty five feet (55'), except on a corner lot a side yard adjoining a street
shall not be less than forty feet (40') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than sixty feet (60') in depth. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
ARTICLE E. W5 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT (RIVERFRONT)
SECTION:
10-7E-1: Purpose And Intent
10-7E-2: Permitted Uses
10-7E-3: Special Uses
10-7E-4: Lot Area Requirements
10-7E-5: Yards
10-7E-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
This article is adopted for the purpose and intent of:
   A.   Promoting the reasonable and orderly development and redevelopment of
properties located within the W5 district;
   B.   To appropriately limit development in that part of the district located
within the floodplain of the Fox River;
   C.   To allow the reasonable use, development and redevelopment of parcels
of land which due to their size became legal nonconforming by passage of this
article;
   D.   To permit the reasonable development and redevelopment of parcels
within the district while recognizing the current roadway infrastructure
deficiencies present in the district;
   E.   To recognize the unique natural and manmade features of property in the
district such as, but not limited to, the presence of the Fox River floodplain,
topographical character of the area, the lack of sufficient roadway
infrastructure, the widely varying lot sizes and configurations heretofore
established within the district;
   F.   To preserve the natural beauty of the subject area to the extent
practicable. (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002)
10-7E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses permitted in a W3 district, except that private stables and
noncommercial pursuit of agriculture shall not be a permitted accessory use on
a lot less than two (2) acres in area, and regulations for the W3 district
governing such accessory uses shall apply on a lot two (2) acres and over in
area. (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002)
10-7E-3: SPECIAL USES:
Those special uses allowed in the W3 district, except that private recreational
clay target shooting clubs shall not be permitted.
Accessory buildings and structures shall be located in the rear yard, not less
than forty feet (40') from the rear and side lot lines of a residential lot.
Utility and public service uses including:
   Electric substations or distribution stations.
   Railroad passenger stations.
Other public or private utility service uses. (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002; amd. Ord.
10-07, 6-15-2010; Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-7E-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than one acre, except as set forth in section
10-13-2 of this title.
"Lot area" shall mean the area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side
and rear lot lines, but not including any area occupied by the waters of a duly
recorded lake, detention or retention basin, river or floodplain area or any
area occupied by a street or public way; in addition, lot area shall include,
for purposes of computing applicable setbacks or minimum lot size under the
provisions of this title, any territory adjacent to (and previously a part of)
a lot of record which territory has been conveyed to and accepted by the
village pursuant to the Wayne historic and rural preservation program, as set
forth in title 9, chapter 2 of this code; all as set forth in section
10-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Lot Width: Not less than one hundred fifty feet (150') fronting on a
right of way dedicated for roadway purposes (whether public or private). Such
roadways shall meet the design standards of the subdivision regulations set
forth in title 11 of this code. No "flag lots", as defined in this title, will
be permitted.
   C.   Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One story dwellings: ground floor area not less than two thousand
(2,000) square feet, excluding the garage.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: ground floor area not less
than one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet, total floor area not less
than two thousand four hundred (2,400) square feet, excluding the garage. (Ord.
02-03, 4-2-2002)
      3.   Dwellings constructed after the date of enactment of this title
shall have an attached private garage, the total square footage of which shall
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total square footage of the dwelling
unit, provided however, that an attached garage with a minimum of two (2)
stalls shall be provided, irrespective of said twenty percent (20%) limitation.
(Ord. 10-07, 6-15-2010)
   D.   Building Height: Not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See section
10-7-3 of this chapter.) (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002)
10-7E-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than forty feet (40').
   B.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard not less than twenty
five feet (25') in width with the two (2) side yards totaling not less than
fifty five feet (55'), except on a corner lot, a side yard adjoining a street
shall not be less than forty feet (40') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than sixty feet (60') in depth. (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-
2002)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: General Requirements
10-8-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Business Conducted Within Enclosed Building: All business, service,
storage, merchandise, display and, where permitted, repair and processing,
shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for off-street
automobile parking and off-street loading and providing fuel to vehicles on the
premises of a gas station.
   B.   New Merchandise, Sale At Retail Required: Goods sold shall consist
primarily of new merchandise. Any goods produced on the premises shall be sold
at retail on the premises unless otherwise permitted herein for specified uses.
   C.   Performance Standards: Processes and equipment employed, and goods
processed or sold, shall be limited to those which are not objectionable by
reason of odor, dust, smoke, cinders, gas, noise, vibration, refuse matter or
water-carried waste. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
ARTICLE A. B LOCAL SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: General Conditions
10-8A-2: Permitted Uses
10-8A-3: Special Uses
10-8A-4: Lot Area Requirements
10-8A-5: Yards
10-8A-6: Signs
10-8A-7: Architectural Controls
10-8A-1: GENERAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Dwelling Units Prohibited: Dwelling units are not permitted, except if
dwelling units are located in a local shopping center district that is located
wholly or partially within a historic district the regulations and procedures
administered by the historic sites commission will apply. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Space Limitations: Each business establishment is restricted to not
more than five thousand (5,000) square feet of floor area.
   C.   Building Site Restriction: In addition to other regulations with
respect to the district, construction of new buildings for this district will
be limited to not more than forty percent (40%) of the land area upon which
building is to be constructed. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-8A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted:
Antique shops.
Banks.
Barbershops.
Beauty parlors.
Book and stationery stores offering products suitable for the general public.
Buildings and structures used for municipal, civic or community purposes,
including, but not limited to, fire and police stations.
Camera and photography supply stores.
Candy and ice cream stores.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning and laundry receiving establishments provided that processing
shall be done elsewhere.
Flower shops.
Food stores: grocery stores, meat markets, delicatessens and bakeries where
goods sold are not produced on the premises.
Gift shops.
Hardware stores.
Interior decorating shops, provided that goods sold are not fabricated or
processed on the premises.
Jewelry stores.
Libraries, branch.
Medical and dental clinics.
Newspaper offices, but not including printing.
Offices: business, professional and public.
Post offices.
Retail stores and showrooms for consultation and sale of electronics and audio/
visual equipment (excluding installation of motor vehicle audio/visual
equipment).
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed one
year.
Variety stores.
Wearing apparel stores.
Accessory uses to the above permitted uses, including, but not limited to, off
street parking facilities: one off street parking space for each three hundred
(300) square feet of floor space shall be provided and such parking spaces and
access drives shall be designed and constructed in accordance with requirements
set forth by the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 12-
14, 7-17-2012; Ord. 15-15, 11-17-2015)
10-8A-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are allowable special uses:
Automobile service stations.
Building material sales.
Chainlink fencing, fences over six feet (6') in height and fencing which
includes barbed wire or concertina strands on top of fences on a lot or parcel
deemed to be a hazardous use.
Clubs and lodges: private, fraternal or religious.
Electric and telephone substations and distribution centers.
Garden supply and seed stores.
Medical cannabis dispensing organizations in conformance with the requirements
of the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act (PA 98-0122).
Railroad rights-of-way and passenger stations.
Other business uses similar to permitted uses listed above. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989; amd. Ord. 10-08, 6-15-2010; Ord. 14-09, 4-1-2014)
10-8A-4: LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Not less than one acre, except that lots of less than one
acre existing in this district as of the date of enactment of this title are
permitted.
   B.   Building Height: Not to exceed one story, except as permitted by the
Historic Sites Commission to rebuild existing structures in a historic
district. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-8A-5: YARDS:
   A.   Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30') in depth.
   B.   Side Yards: Not less than twenty feet (20') in width.
   C.   Rear Yard: Not less than twenty feet (20') in depth except a rear yard
need not be provided when the rear lot line adjoins a railroad right-of-way.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-8A-6: SIGNS:
Non-flashing, but uncolored illuminated signs with no moving parts, awnings and
marquees, are permitted in Business Districts.
   A.   The illumination of any exterior sign shall be only during business
hours or until eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., whichever is earlier. Where a sign
is illuminated by a light reflected upon it, direct rays of light shall not
beam upon any part of any existing residential buildings, nor into a Residence
District, or into a street right-of-way.
   B.   The gross surface area in square feet of signs on a lot shall not
exceed twenty (20) square feet.
   C.   All signs shall be affixed flat against building walls or may project
therefrom not more than twenty four inches (24"). Variations from this
limitation may be granted by the Village Board pursuant to the provisions of
section
10-4-6 of this title, including the provisions of section
9-3-3 of this Code relating to historic districts, if applicable.
   D.   No sign shall be painted, pasted or similarly posted directly on the
surface of any building, wall or fence.
   E.   No sign shall project higher than the building height. (Ord. 19-14, 8-
20-2019)
10-8A-7: ARCHITECTURAL CONTROLS:
   A.   As it is the purpose of the Business District to provide only those
business establishments that are convenient for incidental shopping and
personal services primarily for the residents of the Village, it is the intent
that the architectural design and exterior construction material of such
business buildings shall be compatible with the character of the surrounding
residential developments and consistent with the requirements of the Historic
Sites Commission, if applicable.
   B.   In order to further this intent, all applications for a building permit
to establish a permitted use or a special use in this district shall be
referred by the Zoning Enforcement Officer or the Building and Zoning
Department to the Plan Commission and the Historic Sites Commission, if
applicable, for approval of architectural design and types of exterior
construction materials for any new building or structure, or additions or major
alterations of an existing building or structure.
   C.   An appeal may be taken to the Corporate Authorities by an owner or
owners or their duly authorized agent aggrieved by any decision of the Plan
Commission relative to such architectural controls. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
CHAPTER 9
HISTORIC PRESERVATION DISTRICT 1
(Rep. by Ord. 01-18, 12-4-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 3 of this code, and section
  10-3-12 of this title.
CHAPTER 10
COMMERCIAL EQUESTRIAN DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-10-2: Permitted Uses
10-10-3: Special Uses
10-10-4: Commercial Stables
10-10-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of commercial
equestrian district zones within the village and to specify those circumstances
and conditions under which commercial equestrian district zoned facilities,
buildings, structures and uses may be maintained. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-10-2: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses permitted in a W1 district.
Commercial stables pursuant to the provisions of section
10-10-4 of this chapter.
Equestrian activities of the United States Pony Club and its local affiliates.
Equestrian shows and events including horse trials, hunter trials and hunter
pace activities, schooling shows, and the Dunham Woods annual fall horse show.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-10-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following are allowable special uses:
Buildings and structures used for municipal, civic or community purposes,
including, but not limited to, fire and police stations.
Chainlink fencing, fences over six feet (6') in height and fencing which
includes barbed wire or concertina strands on top of fences and on a lot or
parcel deemed to be a hazardous use.
Special events. Special events such as equine shows, exhibitions and contests
to be conducted within or upon premises used for commercial stable or premises
zoned as a commercial equestrian district shall be granted upon application for
a temporary special use permit being made to the zoning board of appeals
containing the following information:
   A.   A survey or legal description of the property to be used, rented or
leased for the temporary use, including all information necessary to accurately
portray the property.
   B.   A description of the proposed use.
   C.   Sufficient information to determine the yard requirements, sanitary
facilities and availability of parking space to service the proposed temporary
use.
   D.   In addition to the above, the special event shall be subject to the
following terms and conditions:
      1.   No permanent lighting shall be installed, provided temporary
lighting may be installed providing it is removed after the event.
      2.   No permanent structures are to be erected, provided temporary
storage for each horse shall be provided. Said storage may be temporary tents
erected not more than two (2) weeks before the event with each tent's capacity
not to exceed eighty (80) horses.
      3.   Use is to be confined to the dates specified by the zoning board of
appeals.
      4.   Hours of operation are to be confined to the times specified by the
zoning board of appeals, and in no event shall be permitted later than ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. during the term.
      5.   The site is to be cleared of all debris at the end of each day and
cleared of all temporary structures within seven (7) days after the closing
event. A cash bond for a minimum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) is to be posted with the village to
assure that the premises will be cleared of all debris during and after the
event.
      6.   A proper certificate or policy of public liability and dramshop
insurance, if alcoholic beverages are to be served, be filed with the village
not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the event.
      7.   Adequate parking shall be made available at the operator's expense
for the facilities. It shall be the responsibility of the operators to guide
traffic to these areas and provide traffic controllers if, in the opinion of
the zoning board of appeals, they are necessary. Control plans shall be
submitted to the zoning board of appeals and the police chief upon application
hereunder. (Ord. 10-08, 6-15-2010; amd. Ord. 12-14, 7-17-2012)
10-10-4: COMMERCIAL STABLES:
   A.   Lot Area And Location: A commercial stable and corral and other
equestrian facilities shall be located on a lot which in area shall not be less
than twenty (20) acres.
   B.   Number Of Horses/Ponies:
      1.   Outside: If any horses/ponies are kept outside of any building, the
number of such horses/ponies that shall be allowed is one horse or pony per one
acre of contiguous property.
      2.   Inside: If all horses/ponies are kept inside a building, the number
of horses/ponies shall be limited to the building capacity and capability to
house, show and ride said horses or ponies. One stall shall be provided for
each horse or pony. A stall shall be a minimum of twelve feet by twelve feet
(12' x 12') provided the capacity of any building or buildings to keep horses
or ponies shall not provide for more than forty five (45) stalls nor shall more
than one hundred (100) horses/ponies be kept in any parcel hereinafter zoned in
accordance with this title.
   C.   Parking:
      1.   Where horses/ponies are kept outside of any building, there shall be
provided one parking space per two (2) horses or ponies, based upon the maximum
horses or ponies allowed on the property.
      2.   Where horses/ponies are kept inside a building, there shall be
provided one parking space per two (2) stalls.
   D.   Manure And Stockpiles: Manure piles and stockpiles of feed and bedding
shall be placed at least two hundred feet (200') from the front lot line and
seventy five feet (75') from the side and rear lot lines. Manure piles shall be
disbursed or removed in accordance with the requirements of the village.
   E.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth.
      2.   Side Yards: Two (2) side yards, each side yard shall be not less
than one hundred feet (100') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: Not less than one hundred feet (100') in depth. (Ord. 89-
13, 5-16-1989)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose And Objectives
10-11-2: Authority
10-11-3: General Provisions
10-11-4: Special Use Requirements
10-11-5: Applications And Plats
10-11-6: Changes To Planned Developments
10-11-7: Costs
10-11-8: Planned Development Standards
10-11-9: Conditions And Guarantees
10-11-1: PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the planned development regulations is to
encourage and allow more creative and imaginative design for land developments
than is possible under the more conventional zoning regulations. A planned
development also provides for more efficient use of the land and thus results
in more economical land development. Preservation of natural site qualities,
better amenities, more open space and a higher quality project are the normal
results of the planned development process.
   B.   Objectives: The following objectives may be obtained through the use of
the planned development procedures:
      1.   To permit a choice in the types of environment available to the
public by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the other sections of this Title.
      2.   To promote a creative approach to the use of land and related
physical facilities that results in better design and development, with the
inclusion of aesthetic amenities.
      3.   To combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms and
building relationships with a possible preservation of existing uses and mixing
of different uses in an innovative design.
      4.   To encourage a pattern of development to preserve natural
vegetation, topographical and geological and geographical features and
environmentally appropriate features.
      5.   To provide for the prevention and/or control of soil erosion,
surface flooding and the preservation of subsurface water.
      6.   To create a method for the permanent preservation of common open
space for the continued use and enjoyment of the residents of the community and
the development.
      7.   To promote the more efficient use of the land resulting in more
economic networks of streets and other facilities.
      8.   To encourage a land use which promotes the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
      9.   To promote the preservation, conservation and enhancement of the
historic and rural atmosphere of the Village. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   C.   Variety Of Uses: The planned development is intended to provide for
projects incorporating a single type of residential use or a variety of
residential and other related uses as specified in subsection
10-11-8C of this Chapter, which are planned and developed as a unit. The
planned development should provide amenities not otherwise required by law and
often establishes facilities and open space greater than the minimums required
by law. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-11-2: AUTHORITY:
The corporate authorities shall have authority to permit a planned development
as a special use in each of the zoning districts of this Title, in accordance
with the procedures and standards of this Chapter, which planned development
may depart from the normal procedures, standards and other requirements of the
other sections of this Title. In the event that a conflict arises between a
provision of this Chapter and another provision of this Title, or a provision
of any other ordinance, the provisions of this Chapter shall prevail. However,
applicants shall comply with all laws of the State of Illinois and ordinances
of the Village, except to the extent that an ordinance of the Village has been
varied or waived pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989; amd. Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
10-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Ownership Possibilities: Such development may consist of conventionally
subdivided lots to be sold, unsubdivided single ownership or separate
condominium ownership of structures, or other ownership methods, and shall
provide for development by means of a planned development plat which
establishes the location and extent of the features of the planned development
in keeping with the purpose of the plan.
   B.   Other Zoning Standards: The planned development may depart from strict
conformance with the required density, dimension, area, height, bulk, use and
other regulations for the standard zoning districts, and other provisions of
this Zoning Ordinance (but not the standards for planned developments specified
in Section
10-11-8 of this Chapter) to the extent specified in the preliminary plat and
planned development ordinance authorizing the planned development and any
amendments thereto. Except as modified in said ordinance or preliminary plat,
each planned development shall comply with all applicable provisions of the
this Title.
   C.   Subdivision Standards: The provisions of the Village subdivision
regulations shall be adhered to unless a waiver or variance is granted by the
corporate authorities. Such a waiver or variance may be granted as part of the
approved preliminary plat and planned development ordinance. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-
1989)
10-11-4: SPECIAL USE REQUIREMENTS:
The unique and substantially different character of planned developments
require their administrative processing in the same manner as special uses;
except, however, since planned developments are more complex and of a different
character than other special uses, there is established herein specific and
additional procedures, standards and exceptions as to govern the
recommendations of the Plan Commission and the action of the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-11-5: APPLICATIONS AND PLATS:
   A.   Pre-Application Procedure: Prior to the filing of an application for
approval of a planned development, the developer may request of the corporate
authorities an informal meeting to discuss the development of their land in
conjunction with Village Plan. Said meeting shall be a part of a regularly
scheduled meeting, shall be open to the public, and included on their agenda in
advance of the meeting. The pre-application conference is not mandatory and
does not require formal application, fee or filing of a planned development
plat. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   B.   Application: Every application for a planned development shall be
verified by the owner or authorized agent of the owner of the property
involved, filed with the Village Clerk upon a form prescribed therefor, all in
the manner prescribed for special use applications in this Title, except to the
extent different procedures are set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-
1993)
   C.   Preliminary Plat: Every such application shall be accompanied by twelve
(12) copies of the preliminary plat of the planned development and a fee which
shall be established by the corporate authorities. Such preliminary plat shall
be drawn to scale, and with supporting documents shall set forth the following
information:
      1.   The size, height, type and general location of buildings proposed
for the development;
      2.   The means of ingress and egress;
      3.   The proposed circulation pattern within the area of the planned
development;
      4.   The location and description of public and private improvements
proposed to be installed;
      5.   Parking and service area design;
      6.   The proposed recreation facilities and the parcels of land intended
to be dedicated for public use or reserved for the use of all property owners
within the development;
      7.   The gross and net density of residential uses;
      8.   A proposed schedule of stages of development;
      9.   Preliminary architectural plans and drawings for all primary
buildings in sufficient detail to permit an understanding of the style and
character of the development;
      10.   All other items required by Title 11, Chapter 4 of this Code
pertaining to a preliminary plan.
   D.   Conceptual Plan: Alternatively, all or a portion of the preliminary
plat may be submitted in conceptual form and the Plan Commission may, at its
option of conduct hearings on such conceptual plan, reserving the right prior
to voting to approve or disapprove such conceptual plan to require the
developer to submit all or a portion of documentation required under subsection
C above.
The developer must prepare detailed plans for any such conceptual portion of an
approved planned development for submission as a separate preliminary plat in
conformance with the requirements of the planned development regulations of
this Title. This procedure allows for approval of an overall concept without
the necessity of prejudging long-range markets and preparing precise plans for
unknown quantities and allows the developer to complete long-range commitments
knowing he has a viable and acceptable project. The approval of the conceptual
portion of the planned development by the corporate authorities shall
constitute a zoning acceptance of the specific content of the conceptual plan
and shall indicate the general acceptance of the corporate authorities to
approve a "preliminary plat" that carries out, defines and implements the
concepts expressed in the conceptual plan. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   E.   Additional Materials, Restrictions And Conditions: The corporate
authorities shall have the power to waive any of the requirements specified in
the preceding subsections C or D or to require the submission of additional
feasibility reports or impact studies or other additional documents as they may
deem necessary and the corporate authorities may impose such additional
restrictions or conditions particularly applicable to such development, and may
grant or authorize the planned development as a special use subject to such
additional restrictions or conditions. The corporate authorities may further
require, by appropriate covenants or other restrictions running with the land,
the provision of open space within the area of the planned development which
shall never be used for the construction of any building or structure and may
otherwise require adequate arrangements to be made for the care and maintenance
of such open space. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   F.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat And Ordinances:
      1.   If the corporate authorities shall approve the requested planned
development, it shall adopt an ordinance granting the planned development as a
special use and specifying the special conditions and restrictions imposed upon
the planned development and shall include within said ordinance or by reference
the preliminary plat and supporting documents, if any, approved as part of the
planned development. The planned development ordinance shall further contain a
legal description of the property subject to such planned development, and said
ordinance, without exhibits or supporting documents, shall be recorded in the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county in which the property is located.
      2.   Approval of a preliminary planned development plat shall not
constitute approval of the final plat. Rather, it shall be deemed an expression
of approval to the layout submitted on the preliminary plat, which will be
submitted for approval of the corporate authorities and subsequent recording
upon the fulfillment of the requirements of those regulations and conditions of
the preliminary approval, if any. The final plat shall be approved if it
conforms substantially with the preliminary plat.
The preliminary and final plat may be filed and approved simultaneously, or the
final plat may be filed and approved without a preliminary plat if all of the
land is to be developed at one time, and if all requirements hereof are met.
No building permit shall be issued for any structure until the approval of the
final plat.
   G.   Approval Of Final Plat: The final planned development plat shall
conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved, and, if desired by
the developer, it may be submitted in stages, with each stage reflecting the
approved preliminary plat which is proposed to be recorded and developed;
provided, however, that such portion conforms to all requirements of these
regulations. The required procedure for approval of a final plat shall be:
      1.   A final planned development plat and other supporting data required
for approval shall be submitted to the corporate authorities.
      2.   Final plats and supporting data shall show in detail the design,
location and use of all buildings and overall land development, as well as such
additional information as the corporate authorities may require. Where a final
plat of subdivision is submitted, the corporate authorities may waive or defer
until building permits are requested the required submission of the detailed
design and specific lot location of single-family residences.
      3.   The corporate authorities, after receipt of the final plat and
required supporting data, and a report from the Plan Commission, shall approve
or disapprove the final plat, and, if approved, shall pass an ordinance
allowing the issuance of all necessary permits to permit construction.
      4.   The ordinance authorizing construction of the planned development
shall be effective only upon recording of the final planned development plat
with the County Recorder of Deeds of the county in which the property is
located. No permit allowing construction of a building or other development
shall be granted until the required recording of the final plat, except for
grading, models, public improvements or recreational facilities which may be
permitted by the corporate authorities under such conditions as they may
impose.
      5.   The final plat shall conform to all other requirements of the
Village's subdivision regulations pertaining to a final plat. (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989)
10-11-6: CHANGES TO PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Development within the project area shall proceed only according to the
approved and recorded planned development ordinance and final plat, and any
amendments thereto. The recorded ordinance and final plat and supporting date,
together with all recorded amendments, shall be binding upon the applicants,
their successors, grantees and assigns, and shall limit and control the use of
the premises and locations of structures in the planned development project as
set forth therein. Changes to the recorded planned development may be made as
follows:
   A.   Major Changes: Changes which alter the concept or intent of the planned
development, including, but not limited to, increases in density, reductions of
proposed open space, changes in road standards or in increase or decrease in
the property covered by the planned development project may be approved by the
corporate authorities only by the submission of a new application and public
hearing in accordance with the preliminary plat procedure specified for planned
development. All major changes to the planned development shall be recorded
with the County Recorder of Deeds as amendments to the planned development
ordinance or reflected in the recording of a new, corrected final plat.
   B.   Minor Changes: The corporate authorities may, by ordinance, approve
minor changes in the planned development which do not change the concept or
intent of the development without following the plat procedure and without a
public hearing. Minor changes shall be any change not defined as a major
change. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-11-7: COSTS:
The costs incurred by the Village for the review of plans and specifications by
an engineer, attorney or planner employed by the Village shall be paid by the
applicant or owner to the Village promptly upon demand. The Village may require
the applicant or owner to escrow the funds to pay such estimated costs or to
enter into a contract guaranteeing such payment. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-11-8: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All planned developments must meet the following standards:
   A.   Classification: Planned developments served by private wells and/or
private sewage disposal facilities shall be classified as Class I planned
developments. Planned developments served by governmentally owned and operated
water and sanitary sever facilities shall be classified as Class II planned
developments. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   B.   Ownership And Size: The site of the planned development must be under
single ownership or unified control at the time of granting a special use
permit therefor and be not less than one hundred (100) acres for a Class I
planned development and not less than two hundred (200) acres for a Class II
planned development.
   C.   Compatibility: The uses permitted in a planned development must be of a
type so located as to exercise no undue detrimental influence upon surrounding
properties, and shall be compatible each with the other within said site.
Subject to this restriction, the uses permitted in a Class I planned
development may include any one or more of the following uses: single-family
detached homes, cluster homes (where not more than 2 dwelling units may be part
of a single structure), professional or government offices, but such uses shall
not exceed five percent (5%) of the gross land area of the planned development,
private horse stables, private riding clubs and other private recreational
clubs or facilities for the use of members, including restaurant facilities and
a private bar, operated for profit or not, and any other related uses permitted
or authorized under any of the residence districts of this Title. (Ord. 89-13,
5-16-1989; amd. Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
The uses permitted in a Class II planned development may include any one or
more of the following uses: single-family detached homes; cluster homes (where
not more than 2 dwelling units may be part of a single structure); professional
or government offices, and/or a local shopping center district in accordance
with the B Business zoning classification of the Village (and any additional
conditions or restrictions required by the Village), but such business, office
or commercial uses shall not exceed two and one-half percent (21/2%) of the
gross land area of the planned development, or eight and one-half (81/2) acres,
whichever shall be less; private horse stables; private riding clubs and other
private recreational clubs or facilities for the use of members, including
restaurant facilities and a private bar, operated for profit or not, and any
other related use permitted or authorized under any of the residence districts
of this Title. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   D.   Height: No building shall exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories, or
thirty six feet (36'), whichever is lower. (See "building height" definition in
Section
9-2-2 of this Title.)
   E.   Traffic: Adequate provision shall be made to provide ingress and egress
and shall be so designed as to minimize traffic congestion.
   F.   Space Between Buildings: No minimum horizontal distance between
buildings is established; provided, however, that sufficient space between
buildings to provide for adequate fire protection must be maintained. (Ord. 89-
13, 5-16-1989)
   G.   Periphery Area: The required lot width or the required yard along the
periphery of the planned development shall be at least equal either to the lot
width or the yard at least equal in width or depth to that of the adjacent
zoning district within the Village, except that the corporate authorities may
waive or alter the periphery area requirements for Class II planned
developments based upon the actual design and layout of the planned development
and the amenities to be constructed, maintained or dedicated as part of the
planned development.
   H.   Density: The gross density of a Class I planned development shall not
exceed fifty five one-hundredths (0.55) units per gross acre of land. The gross
density of a Class II planned development shall not exceed one residential unit
per gross acre of land, plus or minus two percent (±2%) excluding any portion
thereof devoted to business, commercial or office uses. The net density of any
cluster area in any Class I planned development shall not exceed one unit per
acre, including accompanying open space. The net density of any cluster area in
any Class II planned development shall not exceed two and one-fourth (2.25)
units per acre, including accompanying open space. No single-family lot in any
Class I planned development shall be less than one acre in area. No single-
family lot in any Class II planned development shall be less than nineteen
thousand two hundred (19,200) square feet in area, excluding any private roads.
   I.   Open Space And Recreational Areas: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%)
of the gross area of a Class I planned development shall be utilized for public
or private common open space or private or public outdoor recreation, whether
operated for profit or not, including but not limited to the outdoor recreation
facilities specified in Section
10-7A-2 of this Title. A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the gross area of
a Class II planned development shall be used for public or private common open
space, or private or public outdoor recreation, whether operated for profit or
not, including but not limited to the outdoor recreation facilities specified
in Section
10-7A-2 of this Title. In addition, in any cluster area of any planned
development, a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the land area devoted to such
cluster use shall consist of common open space which shall never be used for
the construction of any buildings or structures. The term "common open space"
as used in the planned development regulations shall mean land unoccupied by
structures or buildings, except those pertaining to recreational use, or those
designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of residents of the
planned development. Land dedicated or conveyed to the Village or other unit of
local government in satisfaction of any requirement to contribute land for park
purposes shall not be deemed "common open space" for purposes of meeting the
fifteen percent (15%) open space requirement of this Section. (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989; amd. Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   J.   Parking Requirements: Adequate parking shall be provided, and in no
event shall the parking be less than that provided for in other sections of
this Title. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
   K.   Anti-Monotony Standards: A land owner may not construct a single-family
residence of substantially identical design to that of an existing building (or
proposed building for which a permit application has been submitted) within one
thousand feet (1,000') of said building. If the sole reason a building permit
is not granted by the Building Officer/Zoning Enforcement Officer is due to
alleged noncompliance with this provision, the Building Officer/Zoning
Enforcement Officer shall forward the application, together with all documents
generated in conjunction with the application, within seven (7) days after the
application is otherwise in compliance with applicable codes and regulations,
to the Village Clerk for review by the Village Board. The Village Clerk shall
notify the applicant of his receipt of the application within seven (7) days by
certified mail. The applicant shall have the right to submit additional
information to the Village Board in support of the application prior to Board
consideration of the application. The Village Board shall review the
application, documents and additional information submitted by the applicant
and shall issue a final determination not later than thirty (30) days after the
application is received by the Village Clerk. For the purposes of this
regulation, "substantially identical design" shall include item 1 and one or
more of items 2 through 4 of the following factors:
      1.   Substantially identical facade or elevation or the reverse thereof;
      2.   Substantially identical size and arrangement of either doors,
windows or other openings or breaks in the facade facing the street, including
a reverse arrangement thereof;
      3.   Substantially identical building footprint or the reverse thereof;
      4.   Other major design features including, but not limited to, roof
line, height of building, construction materials or period or style of
architectural design.
The Village Board may waive the requirements of this subsection for cluster-
type housing or other similar housing construction where identity or similarity
of design or construction materials will enhance or promote the historic or
rural character of the Village. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993)
   L.   Water And Sanitary Sewer Facilities: All Class II planned developments
shall be served by water and sanitary sewer facilities owned and operated by
the Village or by another unit of local government pursuant to an appropriate
intergovernmental agreement between the Village and such unit of local
government and, as appropriate, the owner and developer of the planned
development. Approval of a special use permit for a Class II planned
development shall be subject to such agreement for the provision of public
water and sewer service. No permits or site work for a Class II planned
development may commence until an agreement for water and sewer service
satisfactory to the Village has been executed and approved by the corporate
authorities. (Ord. 93-14, 7-20-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
   M.   Building Sizes And Standards: All dwelling units shall have the minimum
ground floor area and minimum total floor area specified for the W4 Single-
Family District. All dwelling units shall have an attached private garage with
a minimum of two (2) stalls and a maximum of four (4) stalls. (Ord. 93-14, 7-
20-1993)
   N.   General Design: The planned development shall not be so designed as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort or
general welfare. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-11-9: CONDITIONS AND GUARANTEES:
Prior to the granting of any planned development, the Plan Commission may
recommend, and the corporate authorities may stipulate such conditions upon the
establishment, location, design, layout, height, density, construction,
maintenance, aesthetics, operation and other elements of the planned
development as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest,
improvement of the development, protection of the adjacent area and to secure
compliance with the standards specified in Section
10-11-8 of this Chapter. In all cases in which the planned developments are
granted, the corporate authorities shall require such evidence and guarantees
as it may deem necessary as proof that the applicant is complying and will
comply with the conditions stipulated in connection therewith. (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989)
CHAPTER 12
EQUESTRIAN DEVELOPMENT AND USES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Commercial Equestrian Development And Stables
10-12-2: Private Equestrian Facilities
10-12-1: COMMERCIAL EQUESTRIAN DEVELOPMENT AND STABLES:
Commercial equestrian development and commercial stables may be a special use
in each of the zoning districts in the Village subject to all of the procedures
set forth this Title and subject to the following standards:
   A.   The special use shall be available only to contiguous parcels under
single ownership of not less than twenty (20) acres in area.
   B.   The special use shall set forth in sufficient detail any new
construction on the property subject to the special use, it being the intention
of the Village to retain architectural control over any new construction. Any
new or additional construction not approved at the time the special use is
granted shall be approved by the Village Board prior to the issuance of a
building permit.
   C.   The special use shall contain sufficient detail of landscaping designed
to create a buffer between the subject property and any adjoining residential
property.
   D.   The special use shall contain sufficient restrictions regarding manure
disposal and removal, it being the intention to minimize any health hazards and
annoyance to adjoining property owners.
   E.   The special use shall contain sufficient restrictions regarding the
commercial aspects of the use of the subject property, including but not
limited to parking for customers, guests, and trailers. Furthermore, said
special use shall contain detailed restrictions relating to the number of
horses and horse stalls, as well as, detailed restrictions on horse shows and
special events.
   F.   The special use may contain any further or additional terms, conditions
or restrictions as may be deemed reasonable and appropriate by the Village.
(Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-12-2: PRIVATE EQUESTRIAN FACILITIES:
Private equestrian facilities may be a special use in the W1 Single-Family
Residence District in the Village, subject to all of the procedures set forth
in this Title, and subject to the following standards:
   A.   The special use shall be available only to contiguous parcels under
single ownership of not less than ten (10) acres in area.
   B.   The granting of a special use shall be predicated upon a finding by the
corporate authorities that the special use will be compatible with the
character of adjacent properties and will not adversely affect the health,
safety and welfare of the Village or its residents.
   C.   The special use shall set forth in sufficient detail any new
construction on the property subject to the special use and shall incorporate
or be subject to later approval of a site plan, it being the intent of the
Village to retain architectural, landscaping and site planning control over any
new construction. Any new or additional construction not approved at the time
the special use is granted shall be approved by ordinance prior to the
commencement of the work or, if required, the issuance of a building permit.
   D.   The special use shall specify the maximum floor area and ground floor
area for all buildings or structures, including stables and enclosed or covered
arenas.
   E.   The special use shall provide for minimum setbacks and yard
requirements for any buildings or structures which may, if appropriate, exceed
setback and yard requirements in any zoning district.
   F.   The special use shall contain plans in sufficient detail for any
landscaping buffers between the subject property and any adjoining residential
property that may be required by the Village.
   G.   The special use shall contain sufficient provisions regarding manure
disposal and removal, it being the intent to minimize any health hazards and
annoyance to adjoining property owners.
   H.   The special use shall contain sufficient provisions regarding the
location and amount of parking on the subject property to avoid traffic
congestion.
   I.   The special use shall contain detailed provisions relating to the
number of horses and horse stalls, as well as detailed provisions regarding the
type and amount of equestrian or other special events on the subject property,
if permitted.
   J.   The special use may contain any further or additional terms,
provisions, conditions or restrictions as may be deemed reasonable and
appropriate by the village, including, but not limited to, type and amount of
fencing.
   K.   The special use shall satisfy all requirements set forth in section
10-4-7 of this title. (Ord. 97-19, 6-3-1997)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Statement Of Purpose
10-13-2: Authority To Continue Nonconformity
10-13-3: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings Or Structures
10-13-4: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-13-5: Special Use Permit Alternate Provisions
10-13-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings, structures and to specify those circumstances and conditions
under which those nonconforming buildings, structures and uses may be
continued, in accordance with the authority granted by applicable statutes of
the state of Illinois. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-13-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMITY:
   A.   Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at
the time of adoption of this title, or the zoning ordinance adopted October 17,
1960, as amended, and which remains nonconforming, and any such building,
structure or use which shall become nonconforming upon the adoption of this
title or of any subsequent amendments thereto, may be continued subject to the
regulations of this chapter.
   B.   The following nonconforming buildings, structures, lots or uses may be
continued subject to the conditions set forth in subsections C and D of this
section:
      1.   Except in the W5 single-family residence district, any principal
residence built on lots of less than one acre prior to the passage of this
title shall be zoned as though existing in a W3 single-family residence
district;
      2.   Except in the W5 single-family residence district, lots platted
prior to October 17, 1960, which are less than one acre in lot area, may be
improved subject to meeting all requirements, other than minimum lot area, for
the W3 single-family residence district;
      3.   Lots located in the W5 single-family residence district, which were
subdivided and improved in the county prior to their annexation to the village
in 1989, were zoned by the village in the W1 single-family residence district
upon their annexation, were thereafter zoned by the village in the W5 single-
family residence district, and are less than one acre in lot area, may be used
and improved subject to meeting all requirements, other than minimum lot area,
for the W5 single-family residence district, except as provided in subsection C
of this section.
   C.   The conditions for the continued use or improvement of certain
nonconforming buildings, structures, lots or uses pursuant to subsection B of
this section, shall be as follows:
Except for: 1) lots of one acre or more located in the W5 single-family
residence district; and 2) unimproved lots of less than one acre located in the
W5 single-family residence district, the requirements for ground floor area,
front yard, side yard and rear yard for principal and accessory buildings may
be reduced by the percentage that the lot upon which the construction will take
place is less than the minimum required lot area in the zoning district in
which the property is located or deemed to be located, but in no event shall:
      1.   The ground floor be less than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet;
      2.   The front yard be less than the average front yard of the principal
residences immediately adjacent to the proposed building site, or in the
absence of such structures, less than forty feet (40');
      3.   The side yards be less than twenty feet (20');
      4.   The rear yard be less than forty feet (40'); and
      5.   Setbacks for accessory buildings or garages shall not be less than
the general requirements of this title for such structures.
   D.   In a historic district, all permitted construction, all materials used
for any improvement of a nonconforming building, structure, lot or use, and the
establishment of ground floor area, front yard, side yard and rear yard, shall
be reviewed and approved by the historic sites commission pursuant to the
procedures established in this code. (Ord. 02-03, 4-2-2002)
10-13-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The lawfully existing nonconforming use of part or all of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, may be
continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Repairs And Alterations: Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made
to a nonconforming building or structure, provided that no structural
alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except those required by law, or except to
make the building or structure, and use thereof, conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located.
   B.   Additions And Enlargements:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure, all or substantially all of
which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which
it is located, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
nonconforming building or structure, and use thereof, including all additions
and enlargements thereto, is made to conform to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      2.   A nonconforming building or structure, which is nonconforming only
as to bulk, shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
additions or enlargements thereto are made to conform to all regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving: No building or structure, which does not conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located, shall be moved in whole or
in part to any other location unless every portion of such building or
structure is removed, and the use thereof is made to conform to all regulations
of the district into which it is moved.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Building: A building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, and which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of
restoration to the condition in which it was before the occurrence will exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the entire building or
structure new, shall not be restored unless said building or structure, and the
use thereof, shall conform to all regulations of the district in which it is
located. In the event that such damage or destruction is less than fifty
percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of the entire building or structure
new, no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such restoration is
started within one year from the date of the partial destruction and is
diligently prosecuted to completion.
If the historic sites commission concurs, the owner of a nonconforming building
in an historic district may petition the zoning board of appeals for a
variation from the requirements of this subsection D.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Building Or Structure: If a
nonconforming use of a building or structure, all or substantially all of which
building or structure is designed or intended for a use permitted in the
district in which it is located, is discontinued for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days, it shall not be renewed, and any subsequent use of the
building or structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in
which the premises is located.
   F.   Expansion Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: The
nonconforming use of part of a building or structure, all or substantially all
of which building or structure is designed or intended for a use permitted in
the district in which it is located, shall not be expanded or extended into any
other portion of such building or structure, nor changed to any other
nonconforming use.
   G.   Change Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: No nonconforming
use shall be changed to another nonconforming use when such nonconforming use
is located in a building or structure, all or substantially all of which
building or structure is designed or intended for a permitted use.
   H.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Use: In all residence districts, any use
which lawfully exists at the adoption of this title or at the time of
annexation to the village, but is permitted only in a business district, and
which is located in a building, all or substantially all of which is designed
or intended for a residential purpose, shall be entirely discontinued and shall
thereafter cease operation within five (5) years from the date of the adoption
of this title or such annexation. (Ord. 89-13, 5-16-1989)
10-13-4: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of the land, may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of six (6) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and
any subsequent use of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which the land is located.
   C.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any
other use except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is
located.
   D.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Use Of Land: The nonconforming use of land
shall be discontinued and cease in accordance with the following:
      1.   Where no building or structure is employed in connection with such
use, discontinued within one year.
      2.   Where the only buildings or structures or other physical
improvements employed are accessory or incidental to such use and have an
assessed valuation of not more than six thousand dollars ($6,000.00),
discontinued within two (2) years.
      3.   Where the improvements, underground or substantially at ground
level, comprise all or substantially all of the improvements employed in a
nonconforming use of land and which have an assessed valuation of more than six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00), discontinued within five (5) years.
      4.   Where a nonconforming use of land is accessory to the nonconforming
use of a building or structure, discontinued on the same date on which the
nonconforming use of the building or structure is discontinued. (Ord. 89-13, 5-
16-1989)
10-13-5: SPECIAL USE PERMIT ALTERNATE PROVISIONS:
The owner or owners of any land upon which a business use is located and which
land is subsequently rezoned from the B local shopping center district (or
similar zoning classification) to any residence district, and which use
conformed to all regulations of the B local shopping center district (or
similar zoning classification) as of said rezoning, may, in lieu of the rights
conferred by this chapter, petition for a special use permit as set out in
section
10-4-7 of this title. (Ord. 97-07, 2-4-1997)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Jurisdiction
11-1-3: Forms And Certificates
11-1-4: Landscaping, Screening And Tree Preservation
11-1-5: Site Plan Approval
11-1-6: Storm Water Management, Floodplains And/Or Wetland Areas
11-1-1: TITLE:
This amended and restated subdivision ordinance shall be known and cited as the
WAYNE SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND JURISDICTION:
Because each new subdivision accepted by the village becomes a permanent unit
in the basic physical structure of the future community and to which the future
community will, of necessity, be forced to adhere, all subdivisions hereafter
planned within the incorporated limits of the village and within the
unincorporated areas lying one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond, shall, in all
respects, be in full compliance with the regulations hereinafter contained in
this title. These regulations are designed to:
   A.   Provide for the orderly and harmonious development of the village in
accordance with planning and development policies and to otherwise promote
realization of the official comprehensive plan of the village 1 .
   B.   Assure adequate light, air and privacy; to secure safety from fire,
flood and other danger; and to preserve the historic character, identity and
natural beauty of the village.
   C.   Assure the coordination of streets within new subdivisions with other
existing or planned streets and the safe circulation of traffic.
   D.   Provide adequate provision for water supply, sewage disposal and
treatment, schools, parks, playgrounds, equestrian uses, recreation and other
public requirements.
   E.   Prevent the pollution of air and surface waters; to assure the adequacy
of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to encourage the wise
use and management of natural resources.
   F.   Protect historic sites, natural areas and wildlife habitats.
   G.   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions; to further the orderly layout and use of land and to ensure
proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided land. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-
1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-3 of this code.
11-1-3: FORMS AND CERTIFICATES:
The following forms and certificates are also kept on file in the offices of
the village clerk and the building and zoning department:
   APPENDIX I
   CERTIFICATES
1.   The following certificates are to be indicated, where applicable, on all
Final Plats. Certification on final plats of subdivision located in the
unincorporated areas within one and one-half miles beyond the Wayne Village
limits shall be those required by the DuPage County or Kane County Subdivision
Regulations, except when Village of Wayne Subdivision Regulations are more
restrictive, the applicable Village of Wayne Subdivision Certifications shall
also be required.
   a.   Surveyor's certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE) SS
      COUNTY OF KANE)
This is to certify that I,              , an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor,
have surveyed the following described property:
         (Legal Description)
as shown by the attached plat, which is a correct representation of said survey
and subdivision- All distances are shown in feet and decimal parts thereof. I
further certify that all regulations enacted by the Village Board relative to
plats and subdivisions have been complied with in the preparation of this plat.
Given under my hand and seal at          , Illinois, this            day of
           A.D., 20          .
Illinois Registered Land Surveyor No.:       
(SEAL)
   b.   Owner's certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE) SS or
      COUNTY OF KANE)
This is to certify that the undersigned is the owner of land described in the
annexed Plat and has caused the same to be surveyed, subdivided and platted as
shown by the Plat for uses and purposes as indicated therein, and does hereby
acknowledge and adopt the same under the style and title thereon indicated.
Dated at          , Illinois, this                 day of                   ,
A.D. 20          .
                  Owner
                  Address
   c.   Notary's Certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      COUNTY OF      ) SS
I,           , Notary Public in and for the State and County aforesaid, do
hereby certify that                      , personally known to me to be the
same persons whose names are subscribed to the foregoing certificate, appeared
before me this day in person and acknowledged the execution of the annexed plat
and accompanying instruments for the uses and purposes therein set forth as his
or their free and voluntary act.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this            day of
                     , A.D., 20            .
                  Notary Public
      My Commission expires       
   d.   County Superintendent of Highway Certificate
(If applicable)
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      COUNTY OF      ) SS
Accepted this            day of    , A.D., 20           .
               County Superintendent of Highways
   e.   County Health Officer Certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      COUNTY OF      ) SS
      Accepted this            day of     A.D. 20           .
                  (Title)
   f.   County Clerk Certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
      COUNTY OF      ) SS
I,          , County Clerk of                      County, Illinois, do hereby
certify that there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes
and no redeemable tax sales against any of the land included in the annexed
plat.
Given under my hand and seal at (Wheaton or Geneva)  , (Kane or DuPage) County,
Illinois this            day of             , A.D., 20           .
                  County Clerk
   g.   Certificate as to Special Assessments
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF KANE) SS
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE)
I,          , Village Treasurer of the Village of Wayne, do hereby certify that
there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special assessments or
any deferred installments thereof that have been apportioned against the tract
of land included in the plat.
Dated at Wayne, Illinois, this            day of                 , A.D.,
20           .
                  Village Treasurer
   h.   Village Engineer's Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE) SS
      COUNTY OF KANE)
I,           , Village Engineer of the Village of Wayne, do hereby certify that
the required improvements have been installed, or the required guarantee
collateral has been posted for the completion of all required land
improvements.
Dated at Wayne, Illinois, this            day of                 , A.D.,
20           .
                  Village Engineer
   i.   Plan Commission Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE) SS
      COUNTY OF KANE)
Approved this            day of                      , A.D., 20           .
                  WAYNE PLAN COMMISSION
                  Chairman
   j.   Village Clerk's Certificate
      STATE OF ILLINOIS)
      COUNTY OF DUPAGE) SS
      COUNTY OF KANE)
I,           , Village Clerk of the Village of Wayne, Illinois, do hereby
certify that the annexed plat was presented to and by resolution duly approved
by the Village Board of the Village of Wayne, at its meeting held on
                     , A.D., 20           .
In witness whereof I have hereunto set the seal of the Village of Wayne,
Illinois.
                  Village Clerk
   k.   Recorder's Certificate
As required by the Recorder's Office of the County of DuPage or the County of
Kane, as applicable.
   l.   Illinois Department of Transportation
To be stamped on the final plat and signed by the Illinois Department of
Transportation when applicable.
2.   The following certificate shall be shown on the topographic and profile
study (drainage overlay):
   STATE OF ILLINOIS)
   COUNTY OF      ) SS
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface water will not
be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part thereof, or that
if such surface water drainage will be changed, reasonable provision has been
made for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas, or
drains which the subdivider has a right to use, and that such surface waters
will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices
so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of
the construction of the subdivision.
Dated this            day of                      , A.D., 20           .
                               
      Engineer         Owner or Attorney
   APPENDIX II
   SAMPLE EASEMENT LANGUAGE
   DRAINAGE AND WETLANDS CONSERVATION EASEMENT
An easement for conservation of wetlands over and upon those areas of land
designated "Drainage and Wetlands Conservation Easement" on the plat hereon
drawn is hereby granted to the Village of Wayne, the County of
                     , and their successors and assigns for the following
purposes:
   - to accept and conduct surface water discharges from adjacent upstream
property;
   - to maintain said land in its natural, scenic and open condition, and;
   - to enter said land at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspecting
said land to determine if the grantor, or his heirs or assigns, is complying
with the covenants and purposes of this grant.
In furtherance of the foregoing affirmative rights, the grantor makes the
following covenants on behalf of himself, his heirs and assigns, which
covenants shall run with said land in perpetuity:
   - there shall be no dredged or fill material placed upon said land;
   - there shall be no fences, buildings or structures, including signs
constructed upon said land;
   - there shall be no mowing nor removal or destruction of trees and plants on
said land;
   - there shall be no plowing of said land nor shall there be any mining,
removal of topsoil, sand, rock, gravel, minerals or other material from said
land;
   - there shall be no grazing or keeping of livestock or domestic animals of
any kind on said land, and;
   - there shall be no operation of snowmobiles, dune buggies, motorcycles,
all-terrain vehicles or any other types of motorized vehicles on said land.
Said "Drawings and Wetlands Conservation Easement" may be changed, modified or
abrogated only upon written approval of said Village or County. Except as
expressly limited herein, the grantor reserves for himself, his heirs and
assigns, all rights as owner of said land, including the right of use of said
land for all purposes not inconsistent with this grant.
   UTILITY EASEMENT
A permanent non-exclusive easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the
Village of Wayne and the County of (hereinafter collectively referred to as
"the Grantee"), and to all public utility and other companies of any kind
operating including, but not limited to the following companies: Illinois Bell
Telephone Company, Commonwealth Edison Company, and Northern Illinois Gas
Company and to their successors and assigns in, upon, across, over, under and
through the areas shown by dashed lines and labeled "Utility Easement" on this
plat of subdivision, or where otherwise noted in the above legend for the
purpose of installing, constructing, inspecting, operating, replacing,
renewing, altering, and enlarging, removing, repairing, cleaning, and
maintaining electrical, cable television, communications, gas, telephone or
other utility lines and connections as may be required to furnish public
utility service to adjacent areas, and such appurtenances and additions thereto
as said Grantee may deem necessary, together with the right of access across
the real estate platted hereon for the necessary personnel and equipment to do
any or all of the above work. No permanent buildings or trees shall be placed
on said easements, but the premises may be used for gardens, shrubs,
landscaping, and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the
aforesaid uses and rights. Fences shall not be erected upon said easements in
any way which will restrict the uses herein granted except where specifically
permitted by the written authority of the Grantee. The right is also hereby
granted to said Grantee to cut down, trim or remove any trees, fences, shrubs,
or other plants that interfere with the operation of or access to said utility
installation in, on, upon, across, under or through said easements. The Grantee
shall not be responsible for replacement of any such improvements, fences,
gardens, shrubs, or landscaping removed during exercise of the herein given
rights. Replacement of items so removed shall be the responsibility of the then
lot owner.
   DRAINAGE EASEMENT
A permanent non-exclusive, easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the
village of Wayne and the County of                      (hereinafter
collectively referred to as "the Grantee"), and to its successors and assigns
in, upon, across, over, under, and through the areas shown by dashed lines and
labelled "Drainage Easement" on this plat of subdivision, or where otherwise
noted in the above legend for the purpose of installing, constructing,
inspecting, operating, replacing, renewing, altering, enlarging, removing,
repairing, cleaning and maintaining storm sewers, drainageways, stormwater
detention and retention facilities and appurtenances and any and all manholes,
pipes, connections, catch basins, and without limitations, such other
installations as said Grantee may deem necessary, together with the right of
access across the real estate platted hereon for the necessary personnel and
equipment to do any or all of the above work. No permanent buildings or trees
shall be placed on said drainage easements, but the premises may be used for
landscaping, and other purposes that do not then or later interfere with the
aforesaid uses and rights. Fences shall not be erected upon said drainage
easements in any way which will restrict the uses herein granted. The right is
also hereby granted to said Grantee to cut down, trim or remove any trees,
fences, shrubs, or other plants that interfere with the operation of or access
to such drainage facilities in, on, upon, across, under or through said
drainage easements. The Grantee shall not be responsible for replacement of any
such improvements, fences, gardens, shrubs, or landscaping removed during
exercise of the herein given rights. Replacement of items so removed shall be
the responsibility of the then lot owner. Where drainage easement areas are
also used for electric, telephone or gas distribution systems or components,
such other utility installations shall be subject to the prior approval of the
Village of Wayne or the County of                      so as not to interfere
with the maintenance of gravity flow and stabilization of vegetative ground
cover on the above-mentioned drainage facilities.
   LANDSCAPING EASEMENT
A            foot-wide landscaping easement across that part of lots           
is hereby reserved for and granted to  (owner/developer)  and to its successors
and assigns, and is restricted to the placement of trees, shrubs, bushes,
lawns, and other forms of vegetation. No permanent buildings or structures
shall be constructed or maintained on, across, over, or through said
"Landscaping Easement" nor shall such vegetation be removed, except to replace
dead or diseased vegetation of like species without the written authority of
the Village of Wayne. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall preclude the
exercise of rights hereinabove granted for utility easements.
   CURTAIN DRAIN EASEMENT
A non-exclusive easement is hereby reserved for and granted to the Village of
Wayne and the County of                      in and under those areas shown
hereon as "curtain drain easement" and shall be used for installation,
maintenance and repair of drain tiles placed therein for the benefit of
adjacent lot owners so as to facilitate lowering ground water in the proximity
of septic filter fields now or hereafter situated on said lots. The surface of
said "curtain drain easement" areas may be used for any other purpose which
will not or does not interface with the effective operation or maintenance of
said drain tiles. Said maintenance shall be performed by any of said lot owners
benefitted thereby and may include the removal of any vegetation, roots and
debris which may block the flow of water through said tiles.
   EQUESTRIAN EASEMENT
A            foot wide equestrian easement is hereby reserved for and granted
to the Village of Wayne and to its successors and assigns. No permanent
buildings or structures shall be constructed or maintained on, across, over or
through said easement, nor shall trees, shrubs, bushes or other vegetation be
planted or removed without the written authority of the Village of Wayne. Use
of the equestrian easement is limited to equestrian activities, and no vehicles
of any kind shall be permitted to use the easement except for authorized
maintenance.
   APPENDIX III
   AGENDA/RECORD
   PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING
PROJECT NAME          DATE   
      1.   Present:            24 hr Phone Nos.
   Owner/Developer             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   General Contractor             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Project Engineer             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Municipal Engineer             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Others present            
      2.   Subcontractor information:
   Soils Engineer             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Earthwork             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Landscaping             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Surveyor             work
   Contact Person             home
   Address      
   Others            
      3.   Discussion:
Startup/notification    
   Changes to plans/specs   
   Liquidated damages   
   Inspection documents/payout process (lien waivers, affidavits, bills of
sale)   
   Payment of fees   
   Other   
   PRECONSTRUCTION MEETING -- INSPECTION CHECKLIST
DATE:    
PROJECT:    
      Date            Final
If Inspection Required   Inspected      Comments      Inspection
   I.   GENERAL
Traffic control                  
Emergency communication                  
Street cleaning                  
Construction access                  
Dust control                  
Tree Protection                  
Utility locations                  
     Gas                  
     Telephone                  
     Electric                  
     Cable TV                  
     Water                  
     Sewer                  
     Other                  
Other                  
   II.   GRADING
     Mass grading                  
     Fine grading                  
     Stockpiles                  
     Construction drainage                  
     Erosion control                  
     Seeding/sodding                  
     Retention/detention                  
     Outlet Control structure                  
     Pumping station                  
     As-built survey                  
     Shoreline protection                  
     Other                  
   III.   SANITARY SEWERS
     Manholes                  
     Services                  
     Pipeline                  
     Risers                  
     Bedding                  
     Backfill                  
     Street crossing                  
     Air test                  
     Line & grade                  
     TV                  
     Deflection                  
     Other                        
   IV.   WATER MAIN
     Pipeline                  
     Valves                  
     Hydrants                  
     Services                  
     Pipeline                  
     Disinfection                  
     Leakage                  
     Sampling                  
     Sewer crossings                  
     Bedding                  
     Backfill                  
     Street crossings                  
     Disinfection                  
     Leakage                  
     Sampling                  
     Other                        
   V.   STORM SEWERS
     Pipeline                  
     Bedding                  
     Backfill                  
     Street crossing                  
     Manholes                  
     Catch basins                  
     Structures                  
     Clean Outs                  
     Sump pump lines                  
     Other                        
   VI.   STREETS
     Grading                  
     Binder course                  
     Sub base                  
     Surface course                  
     Curb & gutter                  
     Parkway restoration/
seeding                  
     Erosion control                  
     Culverts                  
     Stockpiles                  
     Other                        
   VII.   LANDSCAPING
     Trees                  
     Parkways                  
     Berms                  
     Fencing                  
     Entry signs                  
     Other                        
   VIII.   MISCELLANEOUS
     Signs                  
     Lights                  
     Pedestrian/equest. ways                  
     Sidewalks                  
     Other                        
Comments:    
         Completed by:    
   APPENDIX IV
   CHECKLIST FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAN
   [to be promulgated by Building and Zoning Department]
   PAYOUT RECORD
SUBDIVISION:    
1.   Letter of Credit (to be submitted using Village format):
   a.   Date    
   b.   Expiration date          
   c.   Total amount       
   d.   Division amounts (90% can be released prior to acceptance of Division;
100% upon acceptance)
   DIVISION           9   100%
"A" Grading/retention
"B" Sanitary sewers
"C" Water system
"D" Storm Sewers
"E" Streets
"F" Landscaping
"G" Miscellaneous
 
2.   Payout documents (using standard forms):
   a.   Application for payment
   b.   Sworn statement by contractor to owner
   c.   General contractor's affidavit
   d.   Lien waivers from contractors and subcontractors
   e.   Recommendation for payment signed by Developer's Engineer
3.   Partial acceptance documents/requirements:
   a.   Payment of all outstanding fees to Village
   b.   Final inspection of Division improvements by Village Engineer
   c.   Adoption of acceptance resolution for Division by Village Board
   d.   Bills of sale (sewer & water) when required.
4.   Final acceptance of all improvements (release of all collateral):
   a.   Compliance with Items 3 a, b, c & d above for all improvements
   b.   Submittal of record drawings
   c.   Submittal of 1 yr. (11/2 yr. for landscaping) guarantee @ 15% of cost
of improvements
   d.   Final acceptance or approval of improvements by resolution adopted by
Village Board.
   RECORD OF PAYOUTS:
DIVISION AMOUNT REQUESTED CONTRACTOR DATE APPROVED
 
   APPENDIX V
   Examples of Calculation of Required Dedication of Land
   or Cash Contributions in Lieu Thereof
The following examples illustrates the operation of the formulas for dedication
of a school and park sites or payment of fees in lieu thereof.
The examples are broken down as follows:
      1.   Where the housing characteristics, type and size, are known:
Land will be dedicated for parks and schools.
         a.   Park and recreation
         b.   School site
Cash will be paid in lieu of land.
         c.   Park and recreation
         d.   School
      2.   Where type and size of dwelling units is not known: (The Table of
Population per Dwelling Unit-4 bedroom, single family detached data will be
used)
Land will be dedicated for parks and schools.
         a. Park and recreation
         b. School site
Cash will be paid in lieu of land.
         a. Park and recreation.
         b. School site
1.   Where housing characteristics and bedrooms are known: (Assuming a
development or subdivision consisting of 100 detached single-family houses,
consisting of 50 three-bedroom houses and 50 four-bedroom houses.)
   a.   Park and Recreational-land dedication:
 
                     3 bedroom 4 bedroom Total
Persons per unit:    3.308     4.134
Units                50        50
Total population     165.4     206.7     372.1
Acres at .0055 acres                     2.05
per capita
 
   b.   School site-land dedication
 3 bedroom 4 bedroom Total
                   3 bedroom    4 bedroom    Total
Students per unit:
Elementary         .455x50=22.8 .705x50=35.2 58.0
Junior High        .137x50=6.8  .299x50=15.0 21.8
High School        .106x50=5.3  .252x50=12.6 17.9
                   Students     Acres per    Total
                                student      acres
Land required:
Elementary         58.0         .0183        1.06
Junior High        21.8         .0242        .53
High School        17.9         .0220        .39
Total acres                                  1.98
 
   c.   Park and recreation-cash in lieu of land
2.05 acres x $30,000 per acre = $61,500
   d.   School-cash in lieu of land
1.98 acres x $30,000 per acre = $59,400
2.   Where housing characteristics and bedrooms are not known:
   a.   Park and recreation-cash per lot in lieu of land:
4.134 persons x .0055 acres = .227 acres per dwelling unit.
   b.   School contribution-cash in lieu of land:
 
School Type Acres per         Students Acres per
            student           per Unit unit
Elementary  .0183             .705     .0129
Junior High .0242             .299     .0072
High School .0220             .252     .0055
Total acres per dwelling unit          .0256
 
   c.   Park and recreation-cash per dwelling unit in lieu of land
.0227 acres x $30,000 = $682.11
   d.   School-cash per dwelling unit in lieu of land
.0256 acres x $30,000 = $768.00
   APPENDIX VI - LETTER OF CREDIT FORM
                     (Date)
      FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WAYNE
      IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT NO.                
Village of Wayne
5 N 430 Railroad Street
P.O. Box 532
Wayne, Illinois 60184
   Re:   [Name of Subdivision], Wayne Illinois
      Beneficiary: Village of Wayne
      Applicant:         
      Amount:         
      Expiration: January 31, 1992
Gentlemen:
   We hereby establish in your favor, and at the request and for the account of
[Developer/Owner] our Irrevocable Letter of Credit No.                 in the
amount of [One Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($160,000.00)], effective
immediately, expiring at the close of business in our main office, Wayne,
Illinois 60184 on January 31, 1992.
   Funds under this letter of credit are available to you by your sight drafts
executed by the President of the Village of Wayne or the Clerk of the Village
of Wayne on us, in substantially the form attached hereto, if negotiated on or
prior to the termination date as set forth herein. Partial drafts are allowed,
and all drafts must be marked "Drawn Under First National Bank of Wayne Letter
of Credit No.                 ".
   It is understood that First National Bank of Wayne will not inquire into the
propriety of the demand for any full or partial payment on this letter,
provided that the draft states that the funds being requested are being used
for or in connection with subdivision improvements to or fees or expenses in
connection with the subdivision known as [name of subdivision], Wayne,
Illinois.
   This Letter of Credit is valid for negotiation at the counters of the main
office of First National Bank of Wayne, as provided above, from the date above
stated through the close of business, January 31, 1992. Your draft shall be
deemed received upon either personal delivery or upon mailing, properly
addressed and with proper postage prepaid, by certified mail, return receipt
requested five (5) days prior to the termination date, addressed as follows:
            First National Bank of Wayne
            P.O. Box 760
            Wayne, Illinois 60184-0760
            Attn: [name]
             Vice President
   Each draft presented for payment under this letter shall state the dollar
amount of the draft and the dollar amount of the balance remaining under this
Letter of Credit.
   This Letter of Credit shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Illinois, including the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of
Illinois.
   This Letter of Credit sets forth in full our undertaking, and such
undertaking shall not in any way be modified, amended, amplified or limited by
reference to any document, instrument or agreement referred to herein except
only the drafts referenced herein; and any such reference shall not be deemed
to incorporate herein by reference any document, instrument or agreement except
for such drafts. However, except as otherwise expressly stated herein, this
Letter of Credit is subject to the Uniform Customs and Practice for Commercial
Documentary Credits (1983 Revision) of the International Chamber of Commerce,
Publication No. 400.
               Very truly yours,
               FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WAYNE
            By:      
               [Authorized Signatory]
   SIGHT DRAFT
               DATE:      
               AMOUNT: $   
To:   First National Bank of Wayne
   P.O. Box 760
   Wayne, Illinois 60184-0760
   Attn:   [name]
      Vice President-Treasurer
   Re:   Irrevocable Letter of Credit
      No.          
   AT SIGHT pay to the order of Village of Wayne, 5 N 430 Railroad Street,
Wayne, Illinois 60184 the Sum of                      ($          ).
   The Sum is drawn under Irrevocable Letter of Credit Number                 
, dated                 ,            .
   The funds being requested hereunder are being used for or in connection with
subdivision improvements to the subdivision known as [name of subdivision],
Wayne, Illinois.
   The dollar amount of the balance remaining under the Letter of Credit prior
to this draft is $                       .
   The dollar amount of the balance remaining under the Letter of Credit after
this draft will be $                       .
            (Signed):      
               President
               Village of Wayne
      OR
            (Signed):      
               Clerk
               Village of Wayne
(Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-1-4: LANDSCAPING, SCREENING AND TREE PRESERVATION:
The provisions of the Wayne comprehensive landscape, screening and tree
preservation ordinance, set out in chapter 9 of this title, is incorporated
herein as if fully set forth, to the extent applicable or permitted by law.
(Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-1-5: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
The provisions of the Wayne site plan ordinance, also known as an ordinance
providing for the submission and approval of site plans for subdivisions,
nonresidential property and certain residential property, as set out in chapter
6 of this title, is incorporated herein as if fully set forth, to the extent
applicable or permitted by law. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-1-6: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT, FLOODPLAINS AND/OR WETLAND AREAS:
The DuPage County countywide storm water and floodplain ordinance as set out in
chapter 10 of this title is fully made applicable throughout the village. (Ord.
94-17, 8-2-1994)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this Title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular,
unless the context clearly provides otherwise;
   B.   The present tense includes the past and future tenses and the future
the present;
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive;
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter;
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of this
Title, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition thereof,
and any words or terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily
assigned to them. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this Title:
ALLEY: A right of way which affords secondary means of access to properties
abutting upon a street and not intended for general traffic circulation.
ARTERIAL STREET: A major street or thoroughfare intended to serve as a large
volume traffic way for the county or region beyond the Village.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shore lines of
waterways, other permanent open space or corporate limit lines.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The Building Inspector of the Village of Wayne, Illinois,
or his duly authorized representative.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the preliminary plan.
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to an
arterial street, including the principal entrance streets of residential
developments and the principal circulating streets within such developments.
CONSTRUCTION GUARANTEE: A certificate of deposit, cash or irrevocable letter of
credit or other good and sufficient security as approved by the Village Board
to guarantee the proper installation of land improvements.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street with only one outlet and a permanent vehicular
turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip or area of land by
the general public, a corporation or certain persons for a specific purpose or
purposes.
ENGINEER, DESIGN: A professional engineer, registered and licensed as such in
the State, employed by the subdivider as the person responsible for the design
of site engineering plans and specifications for a project or subdivision.
ENGINEER, PROJECT: A professional engineer, registered and licensed as such in
the State, employed by the subdivider as the person responsible for assuring
that the site improvements are constructed and/or installed according to
approved plans and specifications and according to good engineering practice.
ENGINEERING PLANS: The drawings of all required land improvements prepared by
the design engineer and all accompanying information as described in Chapter 4
of this Title.
FINAL PLAN: A map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material as
described in Chapter 4 of this Title.
FRONTAGE STREET: A minor street which is parallel to and adjacent to a
thoroughfare, and which provides access to abutting properties and protection
from through traffic.
HALF STREET: A street bordering one or more property lines of a tract of land
in which the subdivider has allocated but part of the ultimate right-of-way
width.
IDOT: The Illinois Department of Transportation.
IEPA: The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
JULIE: The Joint Utility Location Information for Excavators.
LAND IMPROVEMENTS: All required onsite and offsite subdivision improvements
including but not limited to public or private streets, street lighting, street
signs, excavation, filling and grading, surface and subsurface drainageways and
facilities, retention and detention basins, soil erosion control, community
water distribution systems and water supply facilities, community waste water
systems and treatment facilities, pedestrian, bicycle and equestrian paths and
required landscaping improvements.
LANDSCAPING IMPROVEMENTS: All required improvements of the Village's
Comprehensive Landscape, Screening and Tree Preservation Ordinance, the Wayne
Site Plan Ordinance or under any preannexation agreement, as applicable 1 .
LOT: A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for transfer
of ownership or for building development. The area of any lot shall not include
any part of the right of way of adjoining streets, roads or alleys.
LOT, BUTT: A lot at the end of a block and located between two (2) corner lots.
LOT, CORNER: A lot with frontage on two (2) intersecting and substantially
perpendicular streets.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
LOT, FLAG: A lot with no street frontage except for a driveway access strip, or
less than twenty percent (20%) of the lot width fronting on a street.
LOT, ZONING: One or more lots of record or parcels under single ownership for
zoning purposes.
MINOR STREET: A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
abutting properties and local needs of a neighborhood.
OFFICIAL PLAN: Refers to the composite of the functional and geographic
elements of the Official Comprehensive Plan of the Village, or any segment
thereof, in the form of plans, maps, charts and textual material, as adopted by
the Village pursuant to the applicable statutes of the State of Illinois 2 .
OPEN SPACE: Any parcel or area of land or water set aside, dedicated,
designated or reserved for either passive or active recreational use. Public
open space is any such parcel or area owned or leased, operated and maintained
by a political jurisdiction. Private open space is any such area or parcel
under private ownership and management.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to the land sought
to be subdivided under this Title.
PARKWAY: An unpaved strip of land situated within the street right of way or
easement.
PEDESTRIAN, BICYCLE OR EQUESTRIAN WAY: A right of way or easement across,
within, or on the border of a subdivision, for use by pedestrian, bicycle or
equestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrianway, bicycle way and/or
equestrian way, crosswalk or however otherwise designated.
PLAN COMMISSION: The Plan Commission of the Village of Wayne 3 .
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A special use and subdivision of land and means a parcel
of land or contiguous parcels of land in single ownership or unified control,
to be developed as a single entity, the character of which is compatible with
adjacent parcels, and the zoning district in which it is located; the owner or
subdivider may be granted relief from specific land use regulations and design
standards in return for assurances of an overall quality of development,
including any specific features which will be of exceptional benefit to the
Village as a whole and would not otherwise be required by Village ordinances.
PRE-APPLICATION PLAN: A sketch of the general features of a proposed
subdivision and all accompanying information as described in Chapter 4 of this
Title.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative map or plan of a proposed subdivision and all
accompanying information as described in Chapter 4 of this Title.
PRIVATE STREET: A street shown on the plat of subdivision to be utilized and
dedicated to a homeowners' association for vehicular traffic and ingress or
egress, and which is not shown or intended to be dedicated to the public or
accepted by the Village.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated to the public or reserved for private
use and occupied or intended to be occupied by, without limitation, a street,
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, fiber
optic or cable television cable, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or
drain, or for another special use. The usage of the term "right of way" for
land platting purposes in the Village shall mean every right of way hereafter
established and shown on a final plat and shall be separate and distinct from
the lots or parcels adjoining such right of way and not included within the
dimensions or areas of such lots or parcels. Right of way intended for streets,
crosswalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers or drains, or any other
use involving maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use
by the maker of the plat on which such right of way is established. Right of
way, including private roads, for uses involving maintenance by private parties
including but not limited to homeowners' associations shall be appropriately
dedicated by the plat.
STOCKPILE: Any accumulation of earth or other material excavated from any site
or lot within a subdivision and remaining on such lot or another lot or site in
the subdivision following excavation.
STREET: An improved public or private right of way or easement which affords a
primary means of vehicular access to abutting properties, whether designated as
a street, avenue, highway, road, boulevard or lane: or however otherwise
designated, but excepting driveways to buildings.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination thereof who subdivides land under the provisions of this Title.
SUBDIVISION: The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by the
subdivider thereof or by his heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns where the act of division creates two
(2) or more parcels of land any of which is less than five (5) acres in area.
The provisions of this Title shall not apply and no subdivision is required in
any of the following instances:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land, provided a plat of survey is recorded and furnished to
Village;
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   G.   Conveyances made to correct description in prior conveyances;
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing and not involving any new streets or easements of access;
   I.   The sale of a single lot of less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by an Illinois registered land surveyor; provided,
that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the
same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of
the larger tract, and provided also that this exemption does not apply if
otherwise prohibited by this Title;
The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein to the Village pursuant
to the Wayne historic and rural preservation program 4 , or the conveyance of
parcels of land or interests therein for equestrian or nature trails.
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS: The basic land-planning principles established as
guides for the preparation of preliminary plans.
VILLAGE: The Village of Wayne, Kane and DuPage Counties, Illinois.
VILLAGE ATTORNEY: Such person or firm designated by the Village Board to serve
as the Village's legal representative.
VILLAGE BOARD: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Wayne,
Illinois.
VILLAGE CLERK: The Village Clerk of the Village of Wayne, Illinois.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: Such person or firm designated by the Village Board to serve
as the Village's engineering representative.
WETLANDS: Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where the
water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by shallow
water. For purposes of this classification, wetlands must have one or more of
the following three (3) attributes: a) at least periodically, the land supports
predominantly hydrophytes; b) the substrata are predominately undrained hydric
soil; and c) the substrata are nonsoil and are saturated with water or covered
by shallow water at some time during the growing season of each year, provided
that any more inclusive definition of wetlands contained in any statute, rule
or regulation of any Federal or State agency having jurisdiction over wetlands
shall supersede this definition. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapters 6 and 9 of this Title, respectively.
2 2. See Section
  10-1-3 of this Code.
3 1. See Title 2, Chapter 2 of this Code.
4 1. See Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-3-1: Variations
11-3-2: Fees
11-3-3: Permits
11-3-4: Recording Of Plats
11-3-5: Violation, Penalty
11-3-1: VARIATIONS:
The Village Board may authorize a variation from these subdivision regulations
after review of the findings and recommendations of the Plan Commission when,
in its opinion, undue hardship may result, or the public interest will not be
served by strict compliance with such regulations and the goals of this Title
may be thereby furthered. In granting any variation, the Plan Commission may
recommend and/or the Village Board may prescribe such conditions deemed
necessary to, or desirable for the public interest. No variation shall be
granted unless the Village Board finds:
   A.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property, such that the strict application of the provisions of this Title
would frustrate or impair the creation of a quality development.
   B.   That the granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is located. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-3-2: FEES:
   A.   Filing Fee: A fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or as otherwise
specified in the Village Fee Ordinance shall be paid by the subdivider to the
Village at the time of filing the preliminary plan with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Reimbursement For Village Fees And Expenses: In the process of
reviewing plans and specifications, or in the course of construction
observation of land improvements as provided in subsection
11-4-6B of this Title, or in carrying out or enforcing the other provisions of
this Title, the Village will often incur fees and expenses by the Village
Engineer, court reporter fees, recording fees, attorney fees, fees for the
preparation of a traffic analysis, fees for BOCA plan review, and other similar
fees and expenses. The owner or subdivider shall reimburse the Village for any
such fees and expenses incurred and shall file a written agreement to that
effect together with any required deposit at the time of filing of a
preliminary plan. In the event of nonpayment of any such fees or expenses, the
Village may, after written notice to the owner or subdivider, draw on any
guarantee provided by the owner or subdivider in accordance with subsection
11-4-5D of this Title.
   C.   Engineering Inspection: All required land improvements to be installed
under the provisions of this Title shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the Village Engineer or other Village representative duly
appointed by the Village Board. Salaries based on hourly rates and other costs
pursuant to such inspections shall be paid by the owner or subdivider. (Ord.
91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-3-3: PERMITS:
   A.   Permits For Utility Services: Permits shall be obtained from the
appropriate governing body for the installation of communication, electric
power, gas and other utility services in public or private rights of way or
easements, as shown on the final plat, and the required fees paid by the owner
or subdivider before any installation is started.
   B.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued by any Village
official for the construction of any building, structure, or improvement to
land or any lot within a subdivision, as defined herein, which has been
approved for platting until all requirements of this Title have been fully
complied with.
   C.   Occupancy Permit: No occupancy permit shall be granted by any Village
official for the use of any structure within a subdivision approved for
platting or replatting until required utility facilities have been installed
and made ready to service the property and that streets providing access to the
subject lot or lots have been constructed or are in the course of construction
and are suitable for vehicular traffic. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-3-4: RECORDING OF PLATS:
   A.   Approval Required: No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to
record in the recorder's office or have any validity until it shall have been
approved in the manner prescribed in this title.
   B.   Record Of Plats: All plats of subdivisions, after the same have been
submitted and approved as provided in this title, shall be filed and kept by
the village clerk among the records of the village. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-3-5: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provision of this title shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation, plus the costs of the action. Each day
that a violation occurs or continues shall be considered to be a separate
offense. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-4-1: General
11-4-2: Pre-Application Plan
11-4-3: Preliminary Plan
11-4-4: Final Engineering Plan
11-4-5: Final Plan
11-4-6: Completion And Acceptance Of Improvements
11-4-1: GENERAL:
Before subdividing any tract or parcel of land in the Village and the
unincorporated areas one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the Village limits,
an owner or subdivider may submit a pre-application plan and shall submit
preliminary, engineering and final plans to be acted upon by the Village in
accordance with the procedures set out in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-4-2: PRE-APPLICATION PLAN:
   A.   Intent: The subdivider may file a pre-application plan in order to
obtain information regarding the official plan and development policies of the
Village, the procedures for subdivision of land, existing and projected
development conditions or other pertinent factors.
   B.   Filing: The subdivider shall file with the Village Clerk three (3)
copies of a pre-application plan at the office of the Village Clerk. No formal
application or fee payment is required. The Village Clerk shall forward a copy
of the sketch plan to the Development Committee of the Village Board and the
Village staff for review and discussion.
   C.   Review: The Development Committee may, at its option, review the pre-
application plan and may make recommendations to the subdivider or, at its
option, refer said plan to the Plan Commission for review and recommendation.
Either the Development Committee or the Plan Commission may decline to perform
a pre-application review. Recommendations relative to a pre-application plan
are advisory and do not obligate the Plan Commission or Village Board to
approve later phases or plans. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
   A.   Intent: The preliminary plan phase is intended to assure that the
subdivision complies with the provisions of this Title, the Wayne Zoning
Ordinance 1  (if applicable) and that it is laid out in accordance with the
land's suitability and limitations for development.
   B.   Filing:
      1.   The subdivider shall file with the Village Clerk seven (7) copies of
the preliminary plat, the filing fee and all accompanying information required
by this Title. Submittal of the preliminary plan shall be at least thirty (30)
days prior to the Plan Commission meeting at which the subdivider proposes to
appear. The Village Clerk shall forward the preliminary plan to the Village
staff and the Plan Commission for their review and recommendation to the
Village Board, and shall also notify the Village Board of the filing of the
plan.
      2.   The subdivider shall file an application with the Kane-DuPage Soil
and Water Conservation District for a natural resource information report.
Preliminary plan approval shall not be granted by the Plan Commission until the
report has been received by the Village.
      3.   In the case where the subdivider wishes to subdivide only a portion
of the total area to be subdivided, the preliminary plan shall include the
proposed general layout for the entire area. The phase which is proposed to be
subdivided shall be clearly superimposed upon the overall plan. Each phase of
the entire area shall be self-contained, including all onsite and offsite
improvements, easements and rights of way required to serve the portion to be
subdivided.
   C.   Review:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall recommend approval or disapproval of the
preliminary plan within ninety (90) days from the date of filing of the last
item of required information. Such time period may be extended by mutual
consent of the subdivider and the Plan Commission. If the Plan Commission
recommends disapproval, the Plan Commission shall advise the Village Board in
writing of the reasons for its disapproval.
      2.   Upon receipt of the Plan Commission's recommendation of approval or
disapproval of a preliminary plan, the Village Board shall approve or deny the
preliminary plan not later than sixty (60) days after the next regular Village
Board meeting following the date of the Plan Commission's approval. Such time
period may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the Village
Board.
      3.   The Plan Commission may recommend in writing and the Village Board
may require such conditions, changes or revisions to the preliminary plan as
are deemed necessary in the interest and needs of the community in keeping with
the provisions of this Title.
      4.   The subdivider shall be notified in writing of any conditions of
approval or reasons for denial of a preliminary plan. Upon approval by the
Village Board, the Village Clerk shall mark the preliminary plan "approved" and
distribute prints of said plan to the Plan Commission, Village Engineer, the
Building and Zoning Department, Village Attorney and the subdivider. Two (2)
prints shall be retained by the Village Clerk for filing.
      5.   Approval of the preliminary plan shall be effective for a period of
one year. Should improvement plans and a final plat not be submitted for
approval within this period, the preliminary plan shall again be submitted for
approval unless an extension is requested by the subdivider and granted by the
Village Board within such one year period. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
11-4-4: FINAL ENGINEERING PLAN:
   A.   Intent: The final engineering plan shall be in substantial conformance
with the preliminary plan and shall accurately show how onsite and offsite
improvements will be constructed to achieve the layout and design objectives of
the preliminary plan and allow the efficient and orderly provision of roads,
drainage facilities, utilities and services, including offsite improvements, as
required by this Title.
   B.   Filing: The final engineering plan may be filed concurrently with or
prior to submission of the final plat. At least four (4) copies of the final
engineering plans shall be submitted to the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk
shall forward the engineering plans to the Village Engineer and to such
governmental authorities having jurisdiction over any improvements for their
review and recommendations.
   C.   Review: The Village Engineer and such other officials who may have
jurisdiction shall review the engineering plan for conformity with the
provisions of this and other applicable ordinances. The Village Board shall not
act on the final plat until it has received a written report from the Village
Engineer and such other officials, if any, as to the acceptability of the
engineering plan and accompanying documents. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-4-5: FINAL PLAN:
   A.   Intent: The final plan consists of a final plat and all accompanying
documents. The final plat is a record of the subdivision as surveyed in the
field. It shows the dimensions of the tract being subdivided and the lots,
rights of way, easements and other parcels, dedications and reservations that
will be created upon approval and recordation of the final plat.
   B.   Filing:
      1.   Within one year after the approval of the preliminary plan, unless a
time extension is granted by the Village Board, the subdivider shall submit the
final plan in accordance with the requirements of the Plat Act 1  and this
Chapter 4. The final plan shall conform substantially to the preliminary plan
as approved. One reproducible copy of the final plat, with original signatures
and ten (10) prints, shall be submitted to the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk
shall distribute copies of the final plan to the Plan Commission and Village
Engineer for their review and recommendation.
      2.   The final plat, if desired by the subdivider, may constitute only
that portion of the approved preliminary plat which is proposed to be recorded
and developed at that time; provided, however, that any portion of such
approved preliminary plat shall allow the efficient and orderly provision of
roads, drainage facilities, utilities and services, including offsite
improvements, as required by this Title. Where less than the entire land area
shown on the preliminary plat is to be filed for record, such recordation shall
not automatically extend the approval of the unrecorded balance of the
preliminary plat.
   C.   Review:
      1.   The Plan Commission shall review the final plan for its conformance
with approved preliminary plan and shall make its findings and recommendations
to the Village Board within the time provided by the Illinois Compiled
Statutes. The Plan Commission may recommend variations from the requirements of
this Title and shall convey to the Village Board in writing the reasons for any
such variations and such other information as the Plan Commission may deem
necessary.
      2.   After receipt of the recommendation of the Plan Commission, the
Village Board shall approve or disapprove the final plan within sixty (60) days
following the filing of the last required document, unless such time is
extended by mutual consent of the Village Board and subdivider. The Village
Board shall approve or deny the final plan by resolution. If approved, the
resolution shall authorize the Village President to sign the certificate on the
final plat; if denied, the resolution shall state the reasons for the
disapproval.
      3.   Prior to the approval of the final plan, the Village Board shall
have the right to designate which easements, dedications and land improvements
will be accepted by the Village. The Village Board may require such homeowner's
agreements, covenants, easements or other provisions as may be necessary to
provide for the installation, maintenance and/or repair of public or private
improvements.
      4.   Upon approval by the Village Board, the Village Clerk shall secure
one transparency print and ten (10) contact prints of the final plat with all
required signatures, and three (3) copies of the supporting documents. The
costs of such prints and copies of documents shall be paid by the subdivider.
         a.   One contact print shall be retained by the Plan Commission;
         b.   One contact print and all specifications, drawings, and estimates
shall be sent to the Village Engineer;
         c.   One contact print shall be sent to the Building and Zoning
Department, together with one set of supporting documents;
         d.   One transparency print, the remaining contact prints and other
supporting documents shall be retained by the Village Clerk for filing.
      5.   The final plat in exact form as approved by the Village Board shall
be filed for record by the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall secure three
(3) print copies of the recorded plat. The subdivider shall pay all recording
fees and the cost of the print copies.
   D.   Agreements Required: No final plat shall be recorded until the owner or
subdivider has provided the following:
      1.   Guarantee for completion of land improvements in one of the
following formats, with the form, amount and provider being subject to approval
of the Village Board:
         a.   Deposit with the Village of cash in the amount of twenty percent
(20%) of the Village Engineer's estimated cost of all onsite and offsite land
improvements to be completed and approved.
         b.   An undertaking by the subdivider guaranteeing completion of the
land improvements remaining to be completed and approved, secured by an
irrevocable letter of credit payable to the Village issued by a sound and
reputable financial institution authorized to do business in the State of
Illinois. Such irrevocable letter of credit or renewals thereof shall be in
effect for a period of two and one-half (21/2) years from the date of recording
the final plat, shall run in favor of the Village and shall be in the amount of
one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the Village Engineer's estimated cost of
all onsite and offsite land improvements to be completed and approved. Such
irrevocable letter of credit shall be in a form to allow the Village to procure
the funds upon demand, and without conditions, by sight draft of the Village
President or Village Clerk containing the statement of the Village President or
Village Clerk that: 1) the funds are required to complete the land improvements
for the subdivision, and 2) that their construction has not been completed in
accordance with the provisions hereof, and/or 3) the funds are required to pay
for any unpaid fees or expenses incurred by the Village reimbursable to the
Village in accordance with Sections
11-3-2 and 11-3-3A of this Title and the agreement obtained from the owner or
subdivider at the time of filing a preliminary plan, in connection with said
land improvements or the administration of subdivision requirements. Said
letter of credit shall be a letter of guarantee, unrelated to payments to
subdivider's or owner's contractors or subcontractors, and shall otherwise be
in a form acceptable to the village. See appendix VI, incorporated by reference
in section
11-1-3 of this title. Notation letters of credit shall not be acceptable.
         c.   Other good and sufficient security as approved by the village to
guarantee the proper installation of land improvements.
      2.   A statement that the subdivider will maintain the roads, including
snow removal, and other land improvements within the subdivision until accepted
by the village, appropriate highway authority or homeowner's association.
      3.   Payment of all professional and administrative fees or other fees
and costs incurred by the village through the date of the final plat approval.
      4.   Payment in full of any required school or park donations of cash, or
dedication of land in lieu thereof, except as otherwise provided in chapter 8
of this title.
      5.   Any other appropriate conditions contained in the resolution of the
village board approving the final plat of subdivision. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
11-4-6: COMPLETION AND ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The completion and acceptance of land improvements shall be in accordance with
the following:
   A.   Completion: All required land improvements shall be completed within
two (2) years of the recording of the final plat unless prior to the expiration
of the two (2) year period a time extension is requested by the subdivider and
granted by the village board. A request for an extension shall not halt the two
(2) year period. No extension shall be granted unless adequate guarantee
collateral has been received and approved by the village board.
   B.   Construction Observation Of Land Improvements:
      1.   Project Engineer: During the course of construction, the
subdivider's project engineer shall provide for construction observation of the
work in order to ensure compliance with the approved plans and specifications
and with good engineering and construction practices. Construction observation
of the work may also be done by the village engineer and other governmental
officials as reasonably required or deemed necessary by the village.
      2.   Preconstruction Meeting: Prior to beginning the installation of any
improvements, including any excavation or filling, the subdivider, the project
engineer and general contractor shall attend a preconstruction meeting with the
village engineer. The purpose of the meeting is to review acceptable site
development and construction practices in accordance with village ordinances
and policies and to complete the preconstruction meeting inspection checklist
(see appendix III, incorporated by reference in section
11-1-3 of this title) pertaining to the requirements and schedule for
inspection of improvements.
      3.   Inspections: All required land improvements shall be subject to
inspections by the village engineer. The subdivider shall give at least twenty
four (24) hours' notice to the village engineer prior to the performance of any
required inspections as indicated on the preconstruction meeting inspection
checklist.
      4.   Correction Of Defects: If upon observation of the improvements, the
village engineer finds that the proposed work is unsatisfactory or does not
comply with the approved plans and specifications, the village engineer shall
advise the project engineer in writing of the defects or deficiencies he
believes should be corrected or rejected, or should be uncovered for
observation, or require special testing, inspection or approval. After the
steps advised by the village engineer have been completed, the subdivider shall
again notify the village engineer as provided above for inspection of
improvements.
      5.   Final Inspection: Upon completion of all required onsite and offsite
improvements, the subdivider shall notify the village engineer, who shall
thereupon authorize a final inspection of all improvements installed. If such
final inspection indicates that there are any defects or deficiencies in any
such improvements as installed, or if there are any deviations in such
improvements as installed from the final engineering plans, the village
engineer shall notify the subdivider in writing of such defects, deficiencies
or deviations and the subdivider shall, at his sole cost and expense, correct
such defects or deviations within ninety (90) days of the date of notification,
unless the village engineer shall approve in writing a longer time period,
within his discretion reasonably exercised, due to impossibility of
performance. When such defects, deficiencies or deviations have been corrected,
the subdivider shall notify the village engineer that the improvements are
again ready for final inspection.
   C.   Reduction Of Guarantee:
      1.   Classifications of required land improvements are enumerated below.
The amount of the guarantee collateral may be reduced as each classification of
required land improvements is completed and approved for each approved phase of
development. Onsite and offsite required land improvements shall, where
applicable, each be divided into the following categories as may be applicable:
         a.   Excavating, filling and grading and retention/detention areas;
         b.   Sanitary sewer system and appurtenances;
         c.   Water system and appurtenances;
         d.   Storm sewer system and appurtenances;
         e.   Streets;
         f.   Landscaping improvements;
         g.   Miscellaneous improvements (street signs, street lights,
pedestrian or equestrian ways, bicycle trails, etc.).
      2.   A construction guarantee shall be reduced only by written
recommendation of the Village Engineer as approved by the Village Board by
motion or resolution upon:
         a.   Written application for reduction by the subdivider, provided the
reduction for any land improvement shall not exceed ninety percent (90%) of the
cost estimate approved by the Village Engineer for that improvement, by
classification, until acceptance or approval of the improvement by the Village
Board. The Village Engineer must certify that the improvements in the
particular category for which reduction is sought are substantially complete.
Upon Village Board acceptance or approval, up to one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of the improvement may be released. Reduction of the
remaining guarantee shall not be authorized until all the land improvements
have been accepted or approved and as hereafter provided. Approval of a
reduction hereunder shall not constitute acceptance or final approval of any
improvement by the Village.
         b.   The unsatisfactory installation, not corrected by the subdivider
within thirty (30) days after receiving written notice from the Village
Engineer, the Village Board or the Village Attorney, of required improvements,
in which event the Village may then declare the subdivider to be in default and
may draw from the construction guarantee the amount necessary to insure the
satisfactory construction of said improvements, including attorney fees, other
professional fees and court costs related to the enforcement of the provisions
of this Section.
         c.   The failure of the subdivider, within thirty (30) days after
receiving written notice from the Village, to pay in full any fees or expenses
incurred by the Village in accordance with Sections
11-3-2 and 11-3-3A of this Title.
         d.   The failure of the subdivider to furnish a replacement or renewal
letter of credit or other construction guarantee not less than thirty (30) days
prior to the expiration of such letter of credit or guarantee, which shall
entitle the Village to draw thereon. A reduction under this subsection C2d
shall not require a written recommendation by the Village Engineer.
   D.   Release Of Guarantee: The guarantee for completion of the land
improvements shall be released only upon fulfillment of the following
conditions:
      1.   The completion of all land improvements;
      2.   The submission of one reproducible (mylar) set of record drawings
which shall be prepared by the project engineer and approved in writing by the
Village Engineer who shall show and certify as to the actual location of all
land improvements, whether public or private, and shall clearly designate any
and all changes from the approved plans and specifications;
      3.   A bill of sale, when required, and a contractor's affidavit and lien
waivers in accordance with the Illinois Mechanic's Lien Act 1 , for all land
improvements which have been designated by the Village Board for acceptance or
approval;
      4.   The submission of a deposit in cash or irrevocable letter of credit,
equal to twenty percent (20%) of the cost of land improvements except
landscaping improvements. This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory
performance of the land improvements and the payment of all fees and expenses
incurred by the Village in connection with the subdivision. The deposit shall
be held by the Village for a period of twelve (12) months after acceptance of
the improvements. After such twelve (12) months the deposit shall be refunded
if all of said fees and expenses have been paid and if no defects have
developed. In the event there are any unpaid fees or expenses or if any defects
have developed, then the remaining deposit shall be released, by motion or
resolution of the Village Board, subject to payment for said fees and/or
amounts expended or to be expended in correcting defects;
      5.   The submission of a deposit in cash or in the form of an irrevocable
letter of credit equal to twenty percent (20%) of the cost of all required
landscaping improvements. This deposit shall be a guarantee of the satisfactory
performance of the landscaping improvements and the payment of all fees and
expenses incurred by the Village in connection therewith. The deposit shall be
held by the Village for a period of eighteen (18) months after acceptance of
the landscaping. After such eighteen (18) months, the deposit shall be refunded
if it is determined by the Village that the establishment and growth of the
landscaping is assured. In the event there is a need to correct defects or
replace diseased or dead landscape plantings, the remaining deposit shall be
released by motion or resolution of the Village Board subject to payment for
amounts expended or to be expended to correct defects or replace said landscape
plantings, and payment of fees or amounts expended subsequent to release of the
guarantee provided in subsection D4 above.
      6.   Final acceptance, by resolution of the Village Board, of the land
improvements which have been designated by the Village Board for acceptance,
and acknowledgment, by motion or resolution of the Village Board, of completion
of the land improvements which have not been designated for acceptance. (Ord.
91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 770 ILCS 60/0.01 et seq.
CHAPTER 5
PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General
11-5-2: Pre-Application Plan
11-5-3: Preliminary Plan
11-5-4: Engineering Plans
11-5-5: Final Plan
11-5-1: GENERAL:
Subdivision plans and accompanying documents shall show the information
required in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-5-2: PRE-APPLICATION PLAN:
The pre-application plan shall be drawn in sketch form and shall show the
following:
   A.   Proposed layout of streets, lots and blocks;
   B.   Proposed dedications, i.e., parks and school sites;
   C.   Existing topographic data and contour lines with a minimum of ten foot
(10') intervals (USGS);
   D.   Proposed name of subdivision, date and north point;
   E.   Location by township, range, section and parcel number;
   F.   Names and addresses of subdivider and owner. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-5-3: PRELIMINARY PLAN:
The preliminary plan shall include the following information:
   A.   A preliminary plat drawn to scale and showing the arrangement of lots,
blocks, streets and the approximate dimensions and areas of all lots. The
preliminary plat shall include, using separate drawings or sheets if desirable:
      1.   Identification and description:
         a.   Proposed name of subdivision not duplicating name of any plan
heretofore recorded in the Village or in Kane or DuPage Counties.
         b.   Legal description and location by section, town, range and parcel
number.
         c.   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner, subdivider and
designer of plan; name and seal of the surveyor who prepared survey.
         d.   Scale of plat (minimum):
 
Up to 20 acres  1 inch = 50 feet
20 to 100 acres 1 inch = 100 feet
Over 100 acres  1 inch = 200 feet
 
         e.   North point (designated as true north).
         f.   Date of preparation.
         g.   Overall area map at a scale of not less than one inch equals one
thousand feet (1" = 1,000') showing relationship of the subdivision to its
surroundings within one-half (1/2) mile of the subdivision and including
property lines, section lines, types of use and ownership of surrounding land
and alignments of existing streets.
      2.   Existing Conditions:
         a.   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, section or corporate lines
within or adjacent to the tract, overall property dimensions and acreage of
tract.
         b.   Zoning classification of proposed subdivision and adjacent
tracts.
         c.   Property lines of adjacent tracts of land shown in relation to
and within one hundred feet (100') of the proposed subdivision, including those
areas across abutting roads.
         d.   Location, width and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings or structures, and section and
Municipal corporation lines within one hundred feet (100') of the tract.
         e.   In case of resubdivision, all descriptive lines of the original
plat being vacated shall be shown by dotted lines in their proper position in
relation to the new arrangement of the plat, the new plat being clearly shown
in solid lines.
         f.   Location and size of existing channels, natural and manmade
retention/detention areas, floodplains, wetlands, storm sewers, farm tiles,
sanitary sewers, water mains, culverts, wells, septic systems and other
underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of one hundred feet
(100') (unless a greater distance is required for review) beyond the tract to
include such data as grades, invert elevations and locations of catch basins,
manholes, valves and hydrants.
         g.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more and two feet (2') with reference to National Geodetic Vertical Datum
(NGVD) or at one foot (1') intervals if required by the Plan Commission or
Village Board for land with unusual topography.
         h.   The location of wooded areas, tree lines, hedgerows and existing
vegetation and trees five inches (5") or more in diameter at one foot (1')
above ground, rock formations or outcroppings, scenic vistas, beaches, historic
sites and other similar assets shall be shown on a separate sheet.
         i.   The location of existing buildings or structures within the
proposed subdivision, or within one hundred feet (100') thereof shall be shown
on a separate sheet.
      3.   Proposed Conditions:
         a.   Proposed zoning classification of all land within the
subdivision.
         b.   Layout of streets, street names (not duplicating any in the
Village or any fire district serving the Village), right-of-way widths, and
connections with adjoining platted streets, and also the widths and location of
alleys, easements, drainageways and pedestrian and equestrian ways.
         c.   Layout, numbers, approximate dimensions and front, side and rear
building setback lines for all lots shall be shown in accordance with these
regulations and the Zoning Ordinance 1 .
         d.   An identification system for all lots using consecutive numbers.
         e.   Sites intended to be reserved for public use and/or use by
property owners in the subdivision, including the purpose and conditions of
reservation or dedication.
         f.   A description of the system proposed for sewage disposal.
         g.   A description of the system proposed for water supply.
         h.   A description of the system proposed for stormwater management by
a method in conformance with DuPage County stormwater management, erosion and
sedimentation control regulations 2 .
         i.   A description or draft of any protective covenants or deed
restrictions which are to be placed upon the property to be subdivided and the
expected date of development.
         j.   Preliminary landscaping plan showing, as a minimum, compliance
with the requirements of the Comprehensive Landscaping, Screening and Tree
Preservation Ordinance 3 .
         k.   Preliminary site plan, if applicable, showing, as a minimum,
compliance with the requirements of the Site Plan Ordinance 4 .
   B.   A description of the donation proposed to satisfy Chapter 6 of this
Title which provides for the dedication of park sites and school sites or the
payment of fees in lieu of dedication.
   C.   A copy of the land use opinion, or application filed by owner or
subdivider for said opinion, from the Kane-DuPage Soil and Water Conservation
District.
   D.   Any other information that may be reasonably requested by the Plan
Commission or Village Board.
   E.   Filing fee.
   F.   A written agreement from the owner of the property and/or the
subdivider agreeing to reimburse the Village for professional fees and expenses
incurred pursuant to Sections
11-3-2 and
11-3-3A of this Title. Furthermore, in the event that the preliminary plan is
being submitted concurrently with a request for annexation of the subject
property to the Village, the owner or subdivider must also undertake to
reimburse the Village for expenses incurred by it with respect to such
annexation negotiations and proceedings. Such reimbursement undertaking must
clearly indicate that reimbursement will be made irrespective of approval or
disapproval of the preliminary plan or the annexation of the property. The
Village may request a deposit for the estimated amount of such expenses, in
which event such deposit must be made before a request for subdivision will be
processed.
   G.   A sworn statement showing the identity of all parties in interest in
the property, including but not limited to: owners, subdividers, contract
purchasers, trust beneficiaries and developers.
   H.   Completed checklist for preliminary plan promulgated by the Building
and Zoning Department (Appendix IV, see reference to said Appendix in Section
11-1-3 of this Title). (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 8, Chapter 3 of this Code and Chapter 10 of this Title.
3 1. See Chapter 9 of this Title.
4 2. See Chapter 6 of this Title.
11-5-4: ENGINEERING PLANS:
The engineering plans shall be prepared by an Illinois registered professional
engineer and shall contain the following information:
   A.   Layout of the proposed subdivision at the same scale as the preliminary
plat showing:
      1.   Finished grade at two foot (2') contours;
      2.   Proposed street layout including centerline elevations at one
hundred foot (100') intervals, rim and invert elevations of all drainage
structures and drainageway flow line elevations;
      3.   Septic area designation, where required;
      4.   Building top of foundation elevations and building site pads, where
required;
      5.   The abandonment, incorporation or modification of all existing drain
field, tile or storm sewers;
      6.   Proposed easements for utilities, drainageways and facilities,
pedestrian and equestrian ways, landscape areas and other purposes;
      7.   The proposed locations of and design standards for street lights and
street name signs (sodium vapor street lighting is not permitted.)
   B.   Roadway and drainage engineering plan and profiles which shall include:
      1.   Plan view of roadways, drainageways and structure; including roadway
horizontal curve data. Road entrances on adjacent properties shall be shown.
      2.   Profiles of roadway center lines and ditch flow lines, including
location and elevations of drainage structures. The grade line profile shall be
shown at a minimum scale of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100')
horizontal and one inch equals ten feet (1" = 10') vertical. Complete vertical
curve data shall be shown.
   C.   Improvement details shall be provided for:
      1.   Typical road cross section;
      2.   Typical drainageway cross section;
      3.   Drainage structure details;
      4.   Erosion control devices;
      5.   Improved pedestrian, bicycle and/or equestrian ways.
   D.   Plans, specifications and calculations for stormwater runoff control in
accordance with DuPage County requirements as cited in Section
11-10-1 of this Title.
   E.   Floodplain information, if applicable, including the elevations of the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) delineated on drawing(s) of the site with
existing topography shown at a scale and contour interval as determined by the
Village Engineer. At a minimum, the topographic drawings shall display the
following flood data:
      1.   Boundary of the SFHA;
      2.   Boundary of the floodway, if available;
      3.   Proposed drainage easements;
      4.   The flood protection elevation for each building site.
   F.   Erosion and sedimentation control plan which shall include minimum
criteria as follows:
      1.   List of type of soils as indicated on soil conservation service maps
or soils report by a soils engineer;
      2.   Earth movement plan including approximate quantities of materials;
      3.   Method(s) of controlling erosion and sedimentation in accordance
with standards established in this Title or other applicable Village
ordinances.
   G.   A copy of the topographic and profile study (drainage overlay) drawn at
the same scale as the final plat and containing the following information:
      1.   All elevations shall be referenced to National Geodetic Vertical
Datum;
      2.   Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals indicating the
locations and elevations of benchmarks used to determine said contours;
      3.   Finished grade elevations or contours at two foot (2') intervals of
the proposed site;
      4.   Rim and invert elevations of all existing and proposed drainage
structures within the subdivision;
      5.   Size, slope and location of drainage channels and/or storm sewers;
      6.   Size, shape, invert and location of downstream receiving drainage
structures including capacities of downstream channels.
      7.   Signature block (see Appendix I, incorporated by reference in
Section
11-1-3 of this Title).
   H.   Plans for private sewage disposal systems shall include evidence that
the subdivider has made the preliminary tests necessary to demonstrate the
feasibility of using private sewage disposal facilities and/or such other tests
or information as may be required by the DuPage County Health Department or by
Kane County, as applicable, except that at a minimum all tests shall be
witnessed by personnel of the applicable county and at least seventy five
percent (75%) of the proposed lots (100 percent for a nonresidential
subdivision) must pass any required percolation or other tests prior to
preliminary plat approval. If Kane County or the DuPage County Health
Department provides for a greater than seventy five percent (75%) pass rate for
such tests as a condition of preliminary plat approval, the most restrictive
ordinance or regulation shall apply.
   I.   Plans for private water supply systems shall include such information
as may be required by the DuPage County Health Department or by Kane County, as
applicable.
   J.   When required, plans for community water distribution systems,
community water supply facilities and community sewage collection and treatment
systems shall be provided.
   K.   Engineer's certified estimate of cost of all required land
improvements.
   L.   Completed engineering plan checklist. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-5-5: FINAL PLAN:
The final plan shall include the following documents:
   A.   A final plat accurately and legibly prepared by an Illinois
professional land surveyor, with waterproof, nonfading black ink on tracing
cloth, mylar or equivalent material. The plat shall be drawn at a minimum scale
of one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100') and shall not exceed thirty
inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36") in size. If more than one sheet is
required, a small scale drawing of the entire subdivision shall be shown on the
first sheet, identifying the different portions of the subdivision. The final
plat shall show:
      1.   Name of subdivision;
      2.   Legal description of land to be subdivided;
      3.   Scale shown graphically, date and north point;
      4.   Accurate angular and linear dimensions for all lines, angles and
curvatures, with functions used to describe all boundaries including perimeter
of survey of tract, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public
use, and other important features. Error of closure of boundary-line surveys
shall not exceed one foot (1') for each ten thousand feet (10,000'). Angular
error shall not exceed plus or minus twenty (±20) seconds. Lot lines to show
dimensions in feet and hundredths, and when an angle occurs in any lot line
between lot corners, the measurement of the angle shall be shown in degrees,
minutes and seconds. The final plat shall show accurately the location of all
permanent lot markers as actually installed;
      5.   An identification system for all lots using consecutive numbers;
      6.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
and official monuments (not less than 3), which shall be accurately described
in the plat by location, size and elevation;
      7.   Municipal boundaries and township and section lines accurately
referenced to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      8.   Accurate location of all monuments required by law which shall be
installed in such a manner that they may be located by a registered land
surveyor;
      9.   Exact location, width and name of all streets within and adjoining
the subdivision, and the location, width, purpose and provisions for all
easement areas;
      10.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use or for the exclusive use of property
owners within the subdivision;
      11.   Protective covenants stated in full on the plat or referenced
thereon if declared separately;
      12.   Seal and signature of Illinois registered land surveyor or other
legally qualified individual who prepared the plat;
      13.   Certificate from the applicable County highway department or IDOT
as to approval of offsite improvements and road connections;
      14.   A statement that the Village does not warrant the suitability of
any lot for installation of a septic system or field;
      15.   Properly executed certificates as contained in Appendix I,
incorporated by reference in Section
11-1-3 of this Title.
   B.   Final landscaping plan satisfying the requirements of the Wayne
Comprehensive Landscaping, Screening and Tree Preservation Ordinance 1 .
   C.   Final site plans in accordance with the site plan requirements of the
Wayne Zoning Ordinance or the Wayne Site Plan Ordinance 2 .
   D.   Proposed homeowner's association agreement, articles of incorporation
and bylaws, protective covenants, special service area provisions or other
documentation regulating the subdivision and/or providing means to insure
ongoing maintenance and repair of private land improvements or common areas or
facilities. In subdivisions containing private roads or detention/retention
facilities or containing five (5) lots or more, the Village may require a
declaration of covenants creating and establishing a homeowner's association
and providing for the scope of activities and authority for an architectural
control committee.
   E.   Statement signed by the owner or subdivider setting forth:
      1.   The plans and specifications for the required public improvements
have been completed, and such plans approved by the Village Engineer;
      2.   The required improvements will be installed in accordance with such
plans and specifications;
   F.   Project engineer's certified estimate of cost of all required land
improvements, approved in writing by the Village Engineer.
   G.   Description of the proposed guarantee collateral for the completion of
land improvements in accordance with requirements in Chapter 4 of this Title.
   H.   Description of proposed land/cash donations to satisfy the provisions
of Chapter 8 of this Title.
   I.   Completed final plan checklist (Appendix IV, incorporated by reference
in Section
11-1-3 of this Title). (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 9 of this Title.
2 2. See Title 10 for Zoning, and Chapter 6 of this Title for Site Plan
  Requirements.
CHAPTER 6
SITE PLAN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Title
11-6-2: Definitions
11-6-3: Site Plan Approval Required
11-6-4: Site Plan Review
11-6-5: Site Plan Details
11-6-6: Signage Details
11-6-7: Design Criteria
11-6-8: Penalty
11-6-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and cited as THE WAYNE SITE PLAN REGULATIONS. (Ord.
91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
11-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms used in this Chapter, unless otherwise defined herein, or unless
defined in the subdivision regulations and/or the Zoning Ordinance 1 , shall be
given their ordinary and customary meanings. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-
1991)
 
Notes
  1. See Sections
1 10-2-2 and
  11-2-2 of this Code.
11-6-3: SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED:
An applicant for a building permit or petitioner seeking approval of a
preliminary plan or special use shall be required to receive site plan approval
from the corporate authorities when the following developments or construction
are contemplated:
   A.   Commercial, limited business or local shopping center buildings or
development.
   B.   Clubs and public or private recreational facilities not constructed on
a zoned single-family residential lot.
   C.   Multiple-family developments.
   D.   Attached or detached single-family cluster developments in a planned
development where housing units are arranged to maximize open space, but which
might not have or meet established standards for yards and setbacks. (Ord. 91-
03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
11-6-4: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Intent: In order to exercise a more orderly control of land use within
land zoned or to be zoned for the purposes listed in Section
11-6-3 of this Chapter, the Village hereby establishes a site plan review
process.
   B.   Authority: Site plans for development as hereinafter described shall be
subject to the approval of the corporate authorities may additionally be
reviewed by the Plan Commission, as appropriate, for compliance with the Zoning
Ordinance, subdivision regulations, Landscaping, Screening and Tree
Preservation Ordinance and other ordinances or regulations of the Village,
where applicable 1 .
The corporate authorities may request the Plan Commission to conduct public
hearings and to report their findings and recommendations with respect to any
site plan. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
 
Notes
  1. See Title 10 for Zoning Regulations, Title 11 for Subdivision Regulations,
1 and Chapter 9 of this Title for Landscaping, Screening and Tree Preservation
  regulations.
11-6-5: SITE PLAN DETAILS:
The site plan shall contain the following detailed information:
   A.   Names and addresses of owner, beneficial owners, applicant, planner,
architect, engineer and landscape architect, as appropriate.
   B.   Scale, north arrow, date.
   C.   Title of the project or property.
   D.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings and
structures, including adjacent lot lines. Building heights, number of stories,
setbacks, side yards, floor area ratio, building ground coverage ratio,
swimming pools, tennis courts and other accessory uses will also be shown or
included in data submitted.
   E.   Within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the boundary of the proposed
site, the location of all existing structures, roads, rights of way and wooded
areas which are reasonably needed to review the impact of the proposed
construction on adjoining properties.
   F.   Ground elevations, existing and proposed, top of foundation elevations
on all adjacent structures.
   G.   Location of floodplains, floodways and streams, wetlands and other
bodies of water, existing vegetation including tree lines, hedgerows, and
woodlands, fences, walls, etc., and locations of trees five inches (5") in
diameter and above.
   H.   Vehicular, service and pedestrian access, including driveways,
sidewalks, bridle paths, curbs, streets, pavement markings, traffic signals and
onsite parking, circulation, signage and curb cuts within two hundred feet
(200') of the site.
   I.   Off-street parking and loading areas, including number of spaces and
dimensions.
   J.   Lighting standards, including location, size, height, type,
illumination and intensity.
   K.   Outdoor storage areas, if any.
   L.   Waste disposal areas, including type of containers, bins, dumpsters,
etc., and proposed enclosure methods.
   M.   Preliminary engineering, drainage, grading, floodplain, and onsite
stormwater detention areas and diagrams showing the flow of water onto and off
the site.
   N.   Elevations showing the exterior design of all four (4) sides of all
proposed structures including detailed description of exterior construction
materials. Elevations shall represent those colors which will be utilized in
the design.
   O.   Other plan details as may reasonably be required by the Plan Commission
or the corporate authorities.
   P.   Landscape plan and details in compliance with the Wayne Comprehensive
Landscape, Screening and Tree Preservation Ordinance 1 .
   Q.   Signage details. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 9 of this Title.
11-6-6: SIGNAGE DETAILS:
Concurrent with the submission of a site plan, the developer or applicant shall
provide details of all freestanding signs and wall signage proposed for the
site. Signage shall be in compliance with the sign regulations of the Village.
The following signage information shall be included with any site plan
submitted for approval:
   A.   Location of freestanding signage.
   B.   Horizontal elevations of all proposed freestanding and wall signage.
Any sketch shall represent those colors which will be utilized in the design.
   C.   Dimensions of all proposed freestanding and wall signage. (Ord. 91-03,
2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
11-6-7: DESIGN CRITERIA:
Approval of site plans shall be based upon conformity to zoning and other
applicable Village ordinances and regulations as well as general conformance to
overall site design criteria. A developer or applicant should seek to integrate
the following design characteristics into those plans submitted for site plan
approval:
   A.   Integration And Compatibility: The overall design shall integrate
neighborhood and site characteristics into a compatible expression of building
mass, scale, color and circulation.
   B.   Minimalization Of Impacts: Spatial designs should minimize the impacts
of traffic, noise, reflected light, debris and other undesirable effects of
development, whether upon abutting properties or the neighborhood as a whole.
   C.   Loading/Refuse Area: Design of loading and refuse areas should be
sensitive to aesthetic concerns and provide for screening compatible with
abutting properties. When possible, such loading and refuse areas should be
located so as to not be visible from public roads.
   D.   Parking Lots: Parking lots and driveways shall be designed to safely
and effectively circulate vehicles throughout the site. When appropriate, cross
easements should be provided between adjoining properties to allow for
circulation of vehicles. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
   E.   Curb Cuts: Curb cuts shall be located to safely and efficiently allow
vehicle ingress and egress to the site. The use of shared curb cuts and cross
easements shall be provided when appropriate. One curb cut shall be allowed for
ingress/egress unless specific documentation is provided demonstrating the need
for additional curb cuts designed for properties adjacent to arterial roadways
shall be in conformance with arterial highway development policies and
standards for DuPage County, as adopted September 11, 1984, unless suspended by
other applicable federal, state or county regulations. Such standards are
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein, and copies are on
file in the offices of the building and zoning department and the village
clerk. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991; amd. 1998 Code)
   F.   Pedestrian Circulation: Site and building design shall accommodate
pedestrian circulation on site from parking areas, plazas, open space and
public rights of way. Pedestrian and vehicular circulation shall be separated
to the greatest extent possible.
   G.   Uniform Signage: Signage shall be designed to provide compatibility
with building form, shape and color. Signage shall be uniform or complementary
in color and overall design. Signage shall not conflict with signage from
adjoining properties.
   H.   Open Space: Where practical, depending upon the design objectives based
upon proposed uses for the site, the design of any development shall provide
for a maximum use of open space, particularly along the perimeter of the site,
in parking lots and near the building foundation. Larger developments should
include designs which allow for open space containing detention/retention
ponds, passive recreation areas, bike/pedestrian paths, equestrian trails and
other amenities which will serve the development.
   I.   Detention/Retention Ponds: When appropriate, detention and retention
ponds should be designed to provide for shared storage between properties.
Ideally, such shared storage should include the greatest land area possible.
Such detention/retention ponds shall be designed with an irregular shape to
give a natural appearance. Stone or other materials placed on banks shall also
be irregular to enhance the natural look.
   J.   Lighting: On site lighting standards shall be as subdued as possible
but shall provide for safe illumination of the site for vehicles and
pedestrians.
   K.   Trees, Woodlands And Hedgerows: The site and buildings shall be
designed so as to minimize removal of trees to the maximum extent possible.
Site plans must present sufficient detail to make a determination of compliance
with chapter 9 of this title. (Ord. 91-03, 2-5-1991, eff. 3-1-1991)
11-6-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day that a violation occurs shall be
considered a separate offense.
In addition to any fine permitted or required to be imposed hereunder, the
village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an actual or threatened violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 16-03, 5-17-2016)
CHAPTER 7
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Minimum Standards And Requirements
11-7-2: Standards Generally
11-7-3: Lots And Blocks
11-7-4: Easements
11-7-5: Streets
11-7-6: Utilities
11-7-7: Stormwater Management, Floodplains And/Or Wetland Areas
11-7-8: Other Improvements
11-7-9: Temporary Sales Facilities
11-7-10: Stockpiles
11-7-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The subdivision design and improvement standards as set forth under this
chapter are the minimum design and improvement standards to be used by the
subdivider. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-2: STANDARDS GENERALLY:
   A.   Conformance With Plans And Regulations: The design of the subdivision
shall conform to the official comprehensive plan, Village planning and
development policies, the official street plan, the Zoning Ordinance, the Site
Plan Ordinance, the Comprehensive Tree Preservation and Landscape Control
Ordinance, to this title and other ordinances pertaining to the control of land
development and to all applicable rules, regulations, specifications and
standards of the Village and the State of Illinois. No deviations from approved
plans and specifications shall be made without prior written approval of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village.
   B.   Character Of The Land: The design of each subdivision shall take into
consideration the preservation, capabilities and limitations of topography,
drainage, soils, vegetation and other features and irreplaceable assets of the
site. The use of lands unsuited to development because of, but not limited to,
flooding and soil characteristics shall not be approved unless the development
of said lands shall meet the requirements of the ordinances and regulations of
the Village.
   C.   Minimum Standards And Specifications: All construction of improvements
shall be in accordance with, and materials used shall be in compliance with,
the methods and materials required in the appropriate sections of the latest
editions, supplements, amendments or revisions of the following:
      1.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", Illinois
Department of Transportation.
      2.   "Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in
Illinois", Illinois Society of Professional Engineers et al.
      3.   "Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment
Control", IEPA.
      4.   IEPA standards and requirements for sewer and water facilities.
(Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
      5.   The DuPage County Countywide Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance
comprehensive revision adopted by DuPage County on May 14, 2019 (the
"Stormwater Ordinance"). (Ord. 98-02, 2-18-1998; amd. Ord. 06-15, 7-18-2006;
Ord. 08-19, 9-16-2008; Ord. 2019-04, 6-4-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
      6.   Other DuPage County and Kane County development standards and
requirements as may be applicable.
Where standards are not specifically set forth, improvements shall comply with
standards established by resolution of the Village Board. Charges or amendments
to any of the standards set forth in subsections C1 through C6 of this section
are incorporated herein to the extent permitted by law; otherwise, such
standards shall be incorporated as in effect at the time of the adoption of
this title.
   D.   Off Site Improvements: If it is determined that any existing
infrastructure, including, but not limited to, water distribution systems,
wastewater collection or treatment systems, storm sewers or other stormwater
management facilities, and road improvements, which may be situated either in
part or entirely off site, is inadequate to facilitate a proposed subdivision
when one hundred percent (100%) built out, then improvements to any one or all
of such facilities may be required and shall be deemed part of the public
improvements. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-3: LOTS AND BLOCKS:
   A.   Block Standards:
      1.   The maximum length of blocks shall be as recommended by the Plan
Commission and approved by the Village Board. The shape of blocks shall be
dictated by topographical features, the street system and traffic pattern, lot
depths and areas designated for public and other nonresidential land uses.
Pedestrianways leading to schools, parks or other common destinations or
equestrian ways when a part of an overall system of bridle paths in the Village
and its environs, may be recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the
Village Board.
      2.   Where a subdivision borders upon or is traversed by a railroad right
of way or arterial street, the Plan Commission may recommend and the Village
Board may require a street (on one or both sides of such right of way or
street) approximately parallel to and at a distance removed suitable for the
appropriate use of the intervening land, i.e., park purposes, deep residential
lots fronting on it with a visual barrier established within a no-access strip
and landscaping easement along the rear property lines, and off-street parking,
business or other uses as permitted by the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Lot Arrangement:
      1.   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties for reasons of topography, soils, flooding or other conditions, in
securing permits to build on all lots in compliance with applicable zoning and
building ordinances and sewage treatment and disposal system rules and
regulations.
      2.   In the subdividing of land, due regard shall be shown for the
preservation of all natural features such as trees, watercourses, historic
places or similar conditions.
      3.   Subdivisions shall contain no leftover pieces, corners or remnants
of land, unless specifically approved by the Village and dedicated to a
homeowners' association for entranceways, recreational space or open space.
   C.   Lot Lines And Dimensions:
      1.   In general, lots should be as nearly rectangular in shape as
practicable; a depth not greater than two and one-half (21/2) times the width
of the lot shall be considered a desirable maximum lot depth. Flag lots are not
permitted in subdivisions containing more than five (5) lots.
      2.   All lots shall meet the minimum depth, width and area requirements
of the Zoning Ordinance for the district in which the subdivision is located.
In the case of corner lots, the Plan Commission may recommend and the Village
Board require a greater width in order to encourage the proper development of
intersection design and traffic safety, and to secure uniform setback lines
from any property line adjoining a street.
      3.   The width, area and depth of lots in a business subdivision shall be
as recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the corporate authorities
in accordance with the Site Plan Ordinance, Chapter 6 of this Title.
      4.   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
line, or substantially so.
      5.   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, wetland, channel or
stream shall have an additional depth or width as recommended by the Plan
Commission and required by the Village Board in order to provide acceptable
building sites.
   D.   Lot Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from all building sites. Individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general stormwater drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be
designed so as to avoid concentration of stormwater drainage from each lot to
adjacent lots, including stormwater detention or retention areas if required.
   E.   Lot Access And Double Frontage:
      1.   All lots shall abut upon a public or private street with access
provided from internal streets wherever possible.
      2.   Double-frontage lots are not permitted except where lots back to
arterial streets or where specifically approved by the Plan Commission, in
which case suitable screen plantings and/or berms within a no-access strip and
landscaping easement shall be provided. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-4: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Utility Easements:
      1.   Utility easements shall be provided along the rear and side lot
lines as required. Such easements shall provide for a total of not less than
twenty feet (20') wide along rear lot lines, and not less than ten feet (10')
wide along side lot lines, and normally be centered upon the rear or side lot
lines. Ten foot (10') wide utility and drainage easements shall be provided
along right-of-way lines of minor streets.
      2.   Recommendations on the proposed layout of communication, gas, water
and sanitary sewer easements shall be obtained from all of the utility
companies which service the area. It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to submit copies of the approved preliminary plat to all appropriate
utility agencies.
      3.   Utility boxes shall be located if possible at the rear of each lot,
having due regard for the preservation of trees on each lot, and installation
shall conform to Chapter 9 of this Title.
   B.   Drainage And Stormwater Management Facility Easements:
      1.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a drainage easement with adequate
width to accommodate observed, computed or anticipated stormwater drainage
through and from the subdivision. The easement shall include an additional area
not less than fifteen feet (15') wide adjoining both edges of the floodplain
area and shall allow access for construction and maintenance equipment.
      2.   All permanent stormwater management facilities for a subdivision
shall be protected by easements or dedications for drainage and shall permit
ingress and egress for maintenance.
      3.   No construction of structures, dams, embankments or channels (except
as indicated on the approved engineering plans) and no planting of trees,
shrubbery or other vegetation which hinder the flow of water or otherwise
inhibit the intended purposes, shall be allowed within any drainage or
stormwater management facility easement without the approval of the Village
Engineer.
      4.   Where possible, drainage easements shall be separate and distinct
from utility easements.
   C.   Landscaping Easements:
      1.   Landscaping easements for screening purposes may be required between
single-family and attached single-family developments, between residential and
commercial lots, or along lot lines to provide screening of residential lots
fronting on arterial or collector streets. If such easement is to be used for
public utilities, the easement shall be of sufficient width to accommodate
appropriate screen plantings without interfering with utility service or
maintenance.
      2.   Landscaping easements may be required to protect areas of existing
site flora for screening or conservation purposes.
   D.   Temporary Turnaround Easements: A temporary vehicular turnaround
easement may be required for road purposes until the extension of the road is
publicly dedicated.
   E.   No-Access Strip Easements: A no-access strip easement at least ten feet
(10') in width may be required along a lot line abutting a street upon which no
vehicular driveway shall be permitted.
   F.   Pedestrian, Bicycle Or Equestrian Way Easements: Easements for
pedestrian, bicycle or equestrian ways shall be provided where deemed
appropriate by the Village Board. Such easements shall be at least twenty feet
(20') in width and shall be located so as to avoid any aboveground utility
equipment. Such easements shall not be located in any drainage easement unless
approved in writing by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-5: STREETS:
   A.   Street Plan: The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and
location of all streets shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets; to reasonable circulation of traffic within the subdivision
and adjoining lands; to securing curvilinear alignments to avoid rigid gridiron
patterns of blocks; to topographical conditions; to stormwater runoff; to
public convenience and safety; and to proposed uses of the area to be served.
   B.   Design Standards:
      1.   Design standards shall be in accordance with this Title, or as
required by Federal, State, County or Township authorities having jurisdiction,
whichever has the more restrictive design standards.
      2.   Minimum right-of-way widths for minor and collector streets shall be
as specified in Table 1 following subsection C9 of this Section. Frontage roads
shall have a minimum right-of-way width of forty feet (40'). In keeping with
the rural atmosphere which the Village seeks to encourage, the Plan Commission
may recommend and the Village Board may approve right-of-way widths narrower
than those specified, after due consideration for safety, estimated traffic
counts and the future needs of the subdivision and surrounding area.
      3.   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed arterial street, the Plan Commission may recommend and the Village
Board may require a frontage road or lots backing on such arterial street with
a no-access strip easement to reduce traffic hazards.
      4.   Half streets are not permitted. Where a dedicated or platted and
recorded half street already exists adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, the
subdivider shall plat the other half, or the existing half right of way shall
be vacated prior to final plat approval.
      5.   Street intersections and confluences shall be designed to encourage
safe and efficient traffic flow and, in general, be at or near right angles
avoiding acute angles. An intersection of more than two (2) streets shall be
avoided unless specific conditions of design indicate otherwise.
      6.   Private streets may be required upon recommendation of the Plan
Commission and approval of the Village Board. Such streets shall be constructed
in accordance with the standards and requirements of this Section.
      7.   Alleys are not permitted in residential areas unless deemed
necessary by the Village Board. When required, alleys shall be at least twenty
feet (20') wide in residential subdivisions and at least twenty two feet (22')
wide in business subdivisions.
      8.   The length of a cul-de-sac street shall be subject to approval by
the Village Board with due regard for the needs of convenient access and
circulation of emergency vehicles and the general public. Each cul-de-sac shall
have a permanent terminus with a circular shape or such other design approved
by the Village Board providing for the turnaround of vehicular traffic.
      9.   Reserve or "spite" strips controlling access to streets are not
permitted.
   C.   Street Improvements: All streets shall be constructed in accordance
with the following requirements:
      1.   Improvement standards for collector and minor streets shall conform
to the minimum standards as specified in Table 1 following subsection C9 of
this Section; pavement and other improvement standards for arterial streets or
thoroughfares shall be determined by the Village Board and other highway
authority as appropriate.
      2.   All pavement widths are measured edge to edge of driving surface on
streets without curb and gutter. Pavement widths on streets with curb and
gutter shall be measured from face of curb to face of curb.
      3.   Cul-de-sac, private and frontage streets shall be constructed to
meet the improvement standards for minor streets. Circular cul-de-sac termini
shall have a turnaround pavement radius of not less than fifty feet (50').
      4.   All unpaved area within the right of way shall be cleared of all
stumps, rocks, trees that cannot be saved and construction debris. Drainage
ditches shall be graded, top soiled to four inches (4") and seeded, (Class I
minimum) or sodded in an approved manner. Drainage ditches on both sides of
pavement shall be designed in accordance with IDOT standards, subject to
approval of the appropriate highway authority.
      5.   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') shall be avoided.
      6.   Gravel or crushed stone shoulders and drainage ditches on both sides
of pavements are required when curb and gutter are not used and shall be
designed in accordance with IDOT standards. Ditches shall not be used to meet
stormwater detention requirements.
      7.   The subgrade shall be prepared to conform to IDOT specifications and
the typical cross section detail shown on the approved engineering plans. The
subgrade shall be accepted by the Village Engineer or the appropriate highway
authority, as applicable, before the gravel or crushed stone base course can be
applied.
      8.   An aggregate base course conforming to IDOT specifications and the
typical cross section detail shown on the approved engineering plans shall be
constructed on the prepared subgrade. The base course shall be accepted by the
Village Engineer or the appropriate highway authority, as applicable, before
the bituminous surface can be applied.
      9.   A bituminous surface plant mix conforming to State specifications
shall be constructed on the compacted base course.
      TABLE 1 - MINIMUM STANDARDS
Standard Collector Minor
         Street    Street
Standard                       Collector   Minor
                               Street      Street
Minimum right-of-way width     80 feet     60 feet
Minimum street width           24 feet     22 feet
Minimum structural member      3.0         2.5
Minimum horizontal center line 300 feet    200 feet
radius
Minimum tangent                100 feet    50 feet
Minimum gradient               0.5 percent 0.5 percent
Maximum gradient               7.0 percent 7.0 percent
 
   D.   Curb And Gutter: Curb and gutters may be required along the outside
edge of streets where the degree of slope exceeds seven percent (7%) or where
otherwise required or approved by the Village Board. Curb and gutter shall be
Portland cement and constructed pursuant to the standard design and
specifications of IDOT or the appropriate highway authority.
   E.   Street Lights: Street lights shall be installed at the entrances of the
subdivision, at street intersections and at such other locations as may be
recommended by the Village Engineer and approved by the Village Board. The
subdivider shall arrange for and pay any installation costs required by the
public service company for the erection of the required street lights. Types,
intensity and density of all street lights shall be subject to approval of the
Village Board.
   F.   Street Signs: Street signs shall be erected so as to identify every
street within the subdivision (whether private or public) and shall be designed
and constructed as recommended by the Plan Commission and approved by the
Village Board.
   G.   Sidewalks And Pedestrian Or Bicycle Ways; Equestrian Trails: Sidewalks
or pedestrian or bicycle ways or equestrian trails may be required by the Plan
Commission and shall be installed within an easement or right of way not less
than twelve feet (12') in width. Sidewalks shall be concrete and at least four
inches (4") thick and four feet (4') wide, with a four inch (4") aggregate base
course and constructed according to IDOT specifications. The materials and
surface treatment of pedestrian or bicycle ways or equestrian trails shall meet
the approval of the Village Board upon recommendation of the Village Engineer.
   H.   Additional Rights-Of-Way Dedications: The Village may require
dedication of additional rights of way for subdivisions abutting State or
County highways to accommodate future traffic needs. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-6: UTILITIES:
   A.   Wastewater Systems:
      1.   All subdivisions relying on individual onsite wastewater treatment
and disposal systems shall comply with all applicable rules and regulations of
DuPage or Kane County and other governmental authorities.
      2.   In subdivisions not relying on septic systems, there shall be
provided a complete wastewater collection system, including a service
connection for each lot, and a sewage treatment plant, land application system
or other such disposal facilities. All such sewerage systems shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with applicable State, County and local plans,
standards and regulations and in accordance with accepted modern sanitary
engineering practices.
   B.   Water Supply And Distribution:
      1.   Individual water supplies (private wells) are permitted provided
they meet all applicable State and Kane or DuPage County regulations.
      2.   All public or community water supply and distribution systems shall
provide all appurtenances and stubs to each lot and shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with applicable State, County and local plans,
standards and regulations.
   C.   Stormwater Drainage And Management Facilities: Stormwater drainage and
management facilities shall be required in accordance with the applicable
regulations of DuPage County, as cited in section
11-7-2 of this chapter, and other governmental authorities, subject to final
approval by the Corporate Authorities.
   D.   Oversizing Of Utilities: Where determined by overall utility planning,
the Village Board may require certain utilities to be larger than necessary to
serve the subdivision as delineated in the preliminary plan. In such case, an
agreement may be made to repay the subdivider the construction cost resulting
from the increased design. All engineering, insurance and inspection costs
shall be paid by the subdivider. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
   E.   Other Utility Services: All new and existing lines in proposed
developments for telephone, electric, gas, cable television and other similar
services shall be placed underground. Existing lines in rights-of-way or
easements adjacent to any proposed development shall be placed underground.
Conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public rights-
of-way in a manner which will not conflict with any other underground service.
All transformer, cable and telephone boxes shall be located along rear lot
lines or at such other locations as will not be unsightly or hazardous to the
public. (Ord. 00-06, 2-15-2000)
   F.   JULIE: The owner or subdivider or any contractor or subcontractor of
owner or subdivider shall contact JULIE prior to commencement of any excavation
work. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-7: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT, FLOODPLAINS AND/OR WETLAND AREAS:
   A.   Conform To DuPage County Ordinance: Subdivision design and improvement
standards and procedures shall conform to the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance comprehensive revision adopted by the
County Board of the County of DuPage on May 14, 2019 (the "Stormwater
Ordinance"), as modified by section
8-9-1 of this Code.
   B.   Ordinance Incorporated By Reference: The DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance comprehensive revision, adopted by the
County of DuPage on May 14, 2019 (the "Stormwater Ordinance"), as modified in
section
8-9-1 of this Code, is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth
and made applicable throughout the Village. (Ord. 98-02, 2-18-1998; amd. Ord.
06-15, 7-18-2006; Ord. 08-19, 9-16-2008; Ord. 2019-04, 6-4-2019, eff. 7-1-2019)
   C.   Interpretation: Adoption by reference of the DuPage County Countywide
Stormwater and Floodplain Ordinance in subsection B of this section shall not
be construed to reduce the amount of any "guarantee collateral" (as defined in
this title) for any public improvements, whether or not related to stormwater
management or other improvements pursuant to the DuPage County ordinance. All
such improvements shall be subject to the guarantee collateral requirement of
one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the estimated cost of such improvements,
and shall continue to be subject to the provisions of this title as in effect
prior to the adoption of this section. (Ord. 98-02, 2-18-1998)
11-7-8: OTHER IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Landscaping Improvements: Landscaping improvements or screening shall
be provided in accordance with the requirements of the Wayne Comprehensive Tree
Preservation and Landscape Control Ordinance, and the Wayne Site Plan
Ordinance, as applicable 1 .
   B.   Entryway Treatments: Permanent landscape entryway features shall be
permitted at subdivision entrances, but not within rights-of-way or roadway
easements, provided the following criteria are met:
      1.   Such entryway features shall have a rural character through the use
of materials and plantings naturally found in rural environments (e.g., wood,
rocks, native site flora) and typical rural or country design elements.
      2.   The placement of a sign conforming to Village standards shall be
designated on the final landscaping plan.
      3.   No entrance sign shall be erected which identifies the subdivision
by any name other than the name displayed on the final plat.
   C.   Equestrianways: Equestrianways shall be provided within easements along
the perimeter of the entire subdivided area or at such other locations as may
be recommended by the plan commission and required by the village board. The
design and specifications for equestrian trails will be determined based on
anticipated use and subdivision site conditions. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapters 9 and 6 of this title, respectively.
11-7-9: TEMPORARY SALES FACILITIES:
Either a mobile sales office or model homes may be permitted in accordance with
the following requirements:
   A.   A mobile sales office may be permitted for a period of twelve (12)
months, which period may be extended upon approval of the village board,
subject to the following:
      1.   A site plan showing parking, landscaping, lighting and signage shall
be submitted for review and approval by the village board.
      2.   A mobile office shall be placed no closer than thirty five feet
(35') to any road right of way.
      3.   The village may require a bond in sufficient amount to guarantee the
cost of removal of the mobile sales office if the subdivider or developer shall
fail or refuse to do so.
   B.   Not more than four (4) model homes per subdivision may be permitted for
a period of twelve (12) months, which period may be extended upon approval of
the village board. A plan showing the number and location of model homes,
parking areas, landscaping, lighting and signage shall be submitted for review
and approval by the village board. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-7-10: STOCKPILES:
Stockpiles shall not be permitted on any lot in a subdivision unless approved
in writing by the village engineer and may be removed by the village at the
subdivider's or owner's expense if the subdivider or owner shall fail to do so,
weather permitting, within thirty (30) days after written notice from the
village to do so. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
CHAPTER 8
DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LANDS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Dedication Prerequisite To Final Plat Approval
11-8-2: Park Land Donation Criteria
11-8-3: School Site Dedication Criteria
11-8-4: Land Dedication Or Cash Contribution Criteria
11-8-5: Cash Contribution In Lieu Of Park And School Sites Criteria
11-8-6: Density Formula
11-8-7: Reservation Of Additional Land
11-8-8: Combining With Adjoining Developments
11-8-9: Topography And Grading
11-8-10: Improved Sites
11-8-11: Time For Conveyance
11-8-1: DEDICATION PREREQUISITE TO FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
As a condition of approval of a final plat of subdivision, or of a final plat
of a planned unit development, each subdivider or developer will be required to
dedicate land for park or recreation purposes and land for school sites, to
serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the development, or
cash contribution in lieu of actual land dedication, or a combination of both,
at the option of the Village, in accordance with the criteria and formula set
out in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-2: PARK LAND DONATION CRITERIA:
   A.   Requirement And Population Ratio: The estimated ultimate population of
a proposed development shall bear directly upon the amount of land required for
dedication. The total requirement shall be five and one-half (5.5) acres of
land per one thousand (1,000) of the estimated ultimate population.
   B.   Location: A park site adjoining all elementary school sites of not less
than five (5) acres shall be considered a requirement. A central location which
will serve equally the entire development is most desirable. In large
developments, these sites can be located throughout the development according
to established standards for park area distances.
   C.   Credit For Private Open Space And Recreation Areas: When subdividers or
developers provide their own open space for recreation areas and facilities, it
has the effect of reducing the demand for local public recreational services.
Depending upon the size of the development, a portion of the park and
recreation area in subdivisions or planned unit developments may, at the option
of the Village President and Board of Trustees, be provided in the form of
"private" open space in lieu of dedicated "public" open space. The extent of
same shall be determined by the Village President and Board of Trustees, based
upon the needs of the projected residents and in conformance to the total park
and recreational land for the general area. Wetlands, floodplains or retention/
detention ponds generally will not be acceptable as land donations. However,
the Village Board may accept land donations consisting of up to fifty percent
(50%) of such areas if the Board determines the property is suitable for the
intended purposes of this Chapter.
In general, a substitution of private open space for dedicated parks will imply
a substantially higher degree of improvement and the installation of
recreational facilities, including equipment, by the subdivider or developer as
part of his obligation. Detailed plans of such areas, including specifications
of facilities to be installed, must be approved by the Village, and before any
credit is given for private recreation areas, the subdivider or developer must
guarantee that these private recreation areas will be permanently maintained
for such use by the execution of the appropriate legal documents and security
for any improvements. Private swimming clubs are included in this provision.
When an adjustment for private recreation areas is warranted, it will be
necessary to compute the total park land dedication that would have been
required from the subdivision of planned unit development and then subtract the
credit to be given. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-3: SCHOOL SITE DEDICATION CRITERIA:
   A.   Calculation Of Requirement: The estimated ultimate student population
for grades K (kindergarten) through twelve (12) of the proposed subdivision
shall bear directly on the amount of land required to be dedicated for school
sites. The minimum requirement shall be 0.0183 acres of land per elementary
student, 0.0242 acres of land per junior high student and 0.0220 acres of land
per high school student in accordance with the school classification and size
of school site standards in this section.
   B.   School Classification And Size Of School Site: School classification
and size of school sites within the village shall be determined in accordance
with the following criteria:
 
Type Of        Maximum  Minimum Minimum
Acres Per      Students Site    Acres Per
School Site    Per Site         Student
   Elementar600      11      0.0183
   Junior hi1,200    29      0.0242
   High scho2,500    55      0.0220
 
   C.   Location: The comprehensive school plan and/or the standards adopted by
the affected school district shall be used as a guideline in locating sites.
(Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-4: LAND DEDICATION OR CASH CONTRIBUTION CRITERIA:
In the event that the number of bedrooms is not determinable at the time of
subdivision approval, it shall be assumed that all houses will be single-family
detached and have four (4) bedrooms. The calculations of the land dedication
required or cash contribution in lieu of land shall be made accordingly. (Ord.
91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-5: CASH CONTRIBUTION IN LIEU OF PARK AND SCHOOL SITES CRITERIA:
Where the development is small and the resulting site is too small to be
practical, or when the available land is inappropriate for park and
recreational purposes or a school site, the village shall require the
subdivider or developer to pay a cash contribution, calculated as provided
herein, in lieu of the land dedication required. The cash contribution in lieu
of park and recreation land dedication shall be held in trust by the village,
or other public body when designated by the village solely for the acquisition
of park and recreation land, which will be available to serve the immediate or
future needs of the residents of that subdivision or development or for the
improvement of other existing local park and recreation land which already
serves such needs. The cash contributions in lieu of school sites shall be held
in trust by the village, solely for use in the acquisition of land for a school
site to serve the immediate or future needs of children from that development
or for the improvement to any existing school site which already serves such
needs, but not for the construction of any school buildings or additions
thereto. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
Expenditures from school site funds held in trust shall be made only with the
mutual agreement of the village and the affected school district. The affected
district shall furnish the village with a written notice describing the amount,
purpose and time of any proposed expenditure of school site trust funds. Within
one hundred twenty (120) days from receipt of said notice, the village shall
advise the said school district whether or not the village is in agreement with
the proposed expenditure. If any disagreement exists, the village shall
designate a committee to meet with representatives of the affected school
district to resolve the matter. If any portion of a cash contribution in lieu
of park and recreation land dedication, or cash contribution in lieu of school
site is not expended for the purposes set forth herein within fifteen (15)
years from the date of receipt, it shall be refunded to the subdivider or
developer who made such contribution. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991; amd. Ord. 06-16,
8-22-2006)
   A.   Value Of Land Used To Calculate Cash Contribution, Fair Market Value:
The cash contribution in lieu of land shall be based on the "fair market value"
of the acres of land in the area improved as specified herein, that otherwise
would have been dedicated as park and recreation and school sites. It has been
determined that the present "fair market value" of such improved land in and
surrounding the village is one hundred twenty five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) per acre, and such figure shall be used in making any calculation
herein unless the subdivider or developer files a written objection thereto. In
the event of any such objection, the developer shall submit an appraisal
showing the "fair market value" of such improved land in the area of his
development or other evidence thereof, and final determination of said "fair
market value" per acre of such improved land shall be made by the village
president and board of trustees, based upon such information submitted by the
subdivider or developer by the school district or from other sources, such as,
but not limited to, appraisals sought by the village. (Ord. 02-21, 11-5-2002;
amd. Ord. 06-16, 8-22-2006)
   B.   Criteria For Combining Land Dedication And Cash Contribution: There
will be situations in subdivisions or planned unit developments when a
combination of land dedication and a contribution in lieu of land are both
necessary. Those occasions will arise when:
      1.   Only a portion of the land to be developed is proposed as the
location for a park or school site. That portion of the land within the
subdivision falling within the park or school location shall be dedicated as a
site as aforesaid, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required
for any additional land that would have been required to be dedicated.
      2.   A major part of the local park or recreation site or school site has
already been acquired, and only a small portion of land is needed from the
development to complete the site. The remaining portions shall be required by
dedication, and a cash contribution in lieu thereof shall be required. (Ord.
91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-6: DENSITY FORMULA:
   A.   Table Of Estimated Population Per Dwelling Unit: The table which
follows shows the estimated ultimate population per dwelling unit and is
generally indicative of current and short range projected trends in family size
for new construction and shall be used in calculating the amount of required
dedication of acres of land or the cash contributions in lieu thereof unless a
written objection is filed thereto by the subdivider or developer.
      TABLE OF ESTIMATED POPULATION PER DWELLING UNIT
              Elementary Junior   High     Total
Dwelling Type Students   High     School   House-
                         Students Students hold
              Elementary Junior   High     Total
Dwelling Type Students   High     School   House-
                         Students Students hold
Single-Family Detached:
 2 bedroom    0.127      0.045    0.043    2.340
 3 bedroom    0.455      0.137    0.106    3.308
 4 bedroom    0.705      0.299    0.252    4.134
 5 bedroom    0.809      0.479    0.460    5.084
Single-Family Attached:
 1 bedroom    0.068      0.007    0.015    1.466
 2 bedroom    0.109      0.020    0.015    2.023
 3 bedroom    0.255      0.119    0.089    2.742
 
Source: School District U46 Model Ordinance, Tesika Assoc., Inc.
   B.   Objections: In the event a subdivider or developer files a written
objection to the table of estimated ultimate population listed hereinabove, he
shall submit his own demographic study showing the estimated additional
population to be generated from the subdivision or planned unit development and
in that event, final determination of the density formula to be used in such
calculations shall be made by the village president and board of trustees,
based upon such demographic information submitted by the subdivider or
developer and from other sources which may be submitted to the village
president and board of trustees by the school or others. It is recognized that
population density, age distribution and local conditions change over the
years, and the specific formula for the dedication of land, or the payment of
fees in lieu thereof, as stated herein, is subject to periodic review and
amendment, if necessary. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-7: RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL LAND:
Where the official comprehensive plan or the standards of the village call for
a larger amount of park and recreational land or school sites in a particular
subdivision or planned unit development than the developer is required to
dedicate, the land needed beyond the developer's contribution shall be
designated and reserved for subsequent purchase at "fair market value" or
acquisition through condemnation by the village or other public body determined
by the village, provided that such purchase is made or proceedings commenced to
acquire the land so designated within one year from the date of approval of the
final plat. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-8: COMBINING WITH ADJOINING DEVELOPMENTS:
Where the subdivision or planned unit development is less than forty (40)
acres, public open space or a school site which is to be dedicated should,
where possible, be combined with dedications from adjoining developments in
order to produce usable recreation areas or school sites without hardship on
any particular developer. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-9: TOPOGRAPHY AND GRADING:
The topography and geology of the dedicated site, as well as its surroundings,
must be suitable for its intended purposes. Grading on sites dedicated shall be
consistent with those purposes. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
11-8-10: IMPROVED SITES:
All sites shall be dedicated in a condition ready for full service of
electrical, gas, water, sewer, sidewalk, streets and storm drainage, where
those services are included in the development and as applicable to the
location of the site, and acceptable provision made therefor. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-
1991)
11-8-11: TIME FOR CONVEYANCE:
Land required to be dedicated herein shall be conveyed at or prior to the time
of recording of the final plat, or within a reasonable time thereafter as
permitted by the village, by warranty or trustee's deed free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances, except current real estate taxes and customary general
ALTA form B title company exceptions (excluding any exceptions which might
preclude the use of the property for the purpose conveyed). Cash contributions
in lieu of such land dedications calculated as provided herein shall be paid as
a condition of final plat approval; however, the plan commission may recommend
and/or the village board may provide that payment be made as the subdivided
lots are sold so long as the subdivider places liens for the cash contribution
due on each lot at the time of recording the final plat and establishes other
guarantees sufficient to insure payment no later than the time of the initial
sale of each lot. Real estate taxes not yet due at the time of such conveyance
and any real estate taxes thereafter due by reason of the change of use of the
property from farming or agricultural purposes under 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 205/20 shall be paid by the developer when the same shall become due.
Sufficient guarantees of the payment of such taxes shall be provided to the
village as a condition of final plat approval. (Ord. 91-21, 8-6-1991)
CHAPTER 9
TREE PRESERVATION AND LANDSCAPE CONTROLS
SECTION:
11-9-1: Title
11-9-2: Findings
11-9-3: Purpose And Definitions
11-9-4: General Provisions
11-9-5: Property Subject Of A Development Petition
11-9-6: Landscape Regulations; Single-Family Detached Residences On
Individually Zoned Lots
11-9-7: Landscaping And Screening Regulations; All Other Sites
11-9-8: Landscaping; Public Or Private Rights Of Way And Drainageways
11-9-9: Construction Activity
11-9-10: Contagious Or Threatening Diseases And Infestations
11-9-11: Tree Board
11-9-12: Historic Buildings, Landmarks, Sites Or Districts
11-9-13: Violations; Required Corrections; Penalty
11-9-14: Tables Of Approved And Prohibited Tree Varieties
11-9-15: Tree Planting And Maintenance Specifications
11-9-16: Obstructions And Hazardous Trees
11-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the WAYNE COMPREHENSIVE TREE
PRESERVATION AND LANDSCAPE CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-2: FINDINGS:
The president and board of trustees make the following findings:
   A.   The village of Wayne is recognized as a community of distinctive
character having been developed with a rural and country tradition and
atmosphere; and
   B.   The village of Wayne is recognized for its natural, wooded streetscapes
which are an essential part of the village's character; and
   C.   The Wayne comprehensive plan recognizes the rich and diverse range of
trees and woodland plants in the village, including rare and endangered species
and the forest canopy found in the village provides a vital contribution to the
rural atmosphere and character of the village; and
   D.   The Wayne comprehensive plan includes the following goals and
objectives:
      1.   To retain a balanced and healthful relationship between people and
nature's life support systems through:
         a.   The conservation and enhancement of native trees and plants and
other compatible vegetative cover, especially woodlands;
         b.   The nurturing of desirable and endangered wildlife and aquatic
species and the enhancement of their habitats;
         c.   The mitigation of adverse impacts of air pollutants, pesticides
and fertilizers, odors, sounds and artificial lights.
      2.   To retain the unique qualities of a rural residential community
through:
         a.   Assuring that the predominant scale, arrangement and appearance
of development will be compatible with a rural residential environment;
         b.   Giving special attention to the design and maintenance of all
roads, highways, and utility rights of way consistent with the desired rural
residential environment, level of safety and function. Maintain and enhance
roadside vegetation, and encourage the electric and telephone companies and
developers to bury their wires wherever possible;
         c.   Locating and designing utilities so as not to disrupt land uses,
create a hazard, or adversely impact the environment. Encourage the electric
and telephone companies to bury their main wires wherever possible;
         d.   Encouraging the private contribution of lands, development
rights, or conservation easements to appropriate public or quasi- public
organizations;
         e.   Endorse programs and actions to preserve the area's natural
resources, especially those which are visible from roadways and pathways, and
those along the Fox River.
   E.   The village of Wayne has previously enacted the historic and rural
preservation program under title 9, chapter 2 of this code "for the purpose of
allowing the village to finance studies, research and other activities which
may assist in the preservation of the rural and historic character of the
village and protect the village from any potential adverse impact of future
development"; and
   F.   Growth in the community, changes in residential neighborhoods, trends
toward larger residences and an increasing number of accessory structures
including pools and tennis courts, the demolition of existing structures, and
new development and redevelopment of properties threaten the destruction of
mature trees and native vegetation which have special historic, community, and
aesthetic significance and value; and
   G.   The preservation of mature trees and native vegetation is necessary and
desirable to preserve the rural and historic character of the village of Wayne,
maintain and enhance property values, and to provide for the general well being
of the citizens of Wayne; and
   H.   The presence of trees and other vegetation aids in storm water
management, helps to prevent erosion, improves air quality, conserves energy,
provides wildlife habitat, and preserves and enhances property values; and
   I.   The preservation and replacement of trees throughout the village is
necessary to safeguard the ecological environment, and to continue the
village's long tradition of establishing regulations to preserve the special
character of Wayne. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-3: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to preserve trees on both
public and private property and, in the event that tree removal is necessary,
to ensure that appropriate replacement trees are planted. This chapter is also
intended to minimize erosion and storm water runoff, provide buffers between
neighboring properties, preserve historic and rural streetscapes, minimize the
visual and environmental impacts of paved surfaces and buildings, and ensure
landscaping in conjunction with new development and redevelopment in a manner
that preserves native vegetation. This chapter is intended to balance the
property rights of individual property owners with those of the overall health,
safety and welfare interests of the village and its residents.
   B.   Definitions: Unless otherwise defined herein or unless defined in the
subdivision regulations and/or the zoning ordinance 1 , all terms used in this
chapter shall be given their ordinary and customary meanings. In the context of
this chapter, the following words and phrases shall be ascribed the following
meanings:
    APPLICANT: An owner, occupant, or a representative of an owner or occupant
of a lot, parcel or tract of land which is the subject of a development
petition or any person who applies for a tree removal permit.
   BUILDING ACTIVITY AREA: The portion of a property within which development
activity, including grading, excavating, storage of materials, construction
access, and construction of both main buildings and accessory structures,
including, but not limited to, pools and tennis courts, may occur.
   CONSERVATION AREA (EASEMENT): An area within which all existing vegetation
shall be preserved for the purpose of retaining the natural character of the
area and providing screening from adjacent uses or a public or private street.
No plant material shall be removed from or planted in a conservation area
without a permit from the village engineer authorizing removal or planting.
Conservation areas are established as part of the subdivision process. No solid
fences may be located in a conservation area. (Also referred to as preservation
areas on some subdivision plats.)
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An area on the ground extending out from the trunk of
the tree in all directions a distance of one foot (1') for every inch DBH.
   CUTTING: Felling or removal of a tree, or other vegetation or any procedure
that results in the death or substantial destruction of a tree or other
vegetation. Cutting does not include normal pruning or trimming of trees or
vegetation consistent with this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT PETITION: Any application for subdivision, resubdivision or any
form of zoning relief, including, but not limited to, map amendments, text
amendments, special use permits, or variations from the subdivision regulations
or zoning ordinance and any application for any activity requiring the issuance
of a grading, building, fence, utility or demolition permit.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH): The diameter of a tree measured at fifty four
inches (54") above the ground.
   HERITAGE TREE: Any tree having a twenty five inch (25") or larger DBH.
   HERITAGE TREE AREA: That area of a lot or parcel within the critical root
zone of a heritage tree.
   INCH FOR INCH REPLACEMENT: The planting of one or more trees in place of
trees that have been removed. The new tree, or trees, shall equal, in total DBH
inches, the DBH of the tree or trees removed.
   NOXIOUS SPECIES: Noxious species consist of undesirable nonnative and native
invasive species. "Nonnative species" are those plants that were not
historically found in Wayne in presettlement times. "Invasive species" are
those plants that establish readily, expand in numbers rapidly and out compete
noninvasive native vegetation. Noxious species threaten native plant
communities by displacing noninvasive native species and the removal of noxious
species is desirable and encouraged.
   PROPERTY SUBJECT OF A DEVELOPMENT PETITION: Any property which is the
subject of a development petition.
   PROTECTED AREA: Any area in which tree protection measures are required
pursuant to this chapter, including, without limitation, any conservation area,
heritage tree or heritage tree area, streetscape preservation area, or tree
preservation area.
   PUBLIC UTILITY: Any firm or corporation performing a public service and
subject to regulation by the Illinois commerce commission or any other state or
federal regulatory agency including, but not limited to, those holding a
certificate of necessity and convenience. "Public utility" shall mean and
include, without limitation, firms or corporations providing or transporting
electricity, water, sanitary or storm sewage, natural gas, petroleum, as well
as telephone, telegraph, radio, television, cellular telephone or vehicular
mobile radio service and railroads.
   REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The act of causing a tree to be cut down or to die
through damaging, poisoning or other direct or indirect action.
   STREET TREE: A tree located in the public right of way and maintained by the
village.
   STREETSCAPE PRESERVATION AREA: The portion of property consisting of the
twenty feet (20') closest to the lot line on any lot or parcel of land located
in every front and corner side yard as such yards are defined in the zoning
ordinance, provided, however, that any part of a lot or parcel within a
streetscape preservation area which has been dedicated to or conveyed to the
village pursuant to the Wayne historical and rural preservation program (title
9, chapter 2 of this code) shall be counted toward the streetscape preservation
area.
   TREE PRESERVATION AREA: The portion of property consisting of the twenty
feet (20') closest to the lot line on any lot or parcel of land in every
interior side yard and rear yard as such yards are defined in the Wayne zoning
ordinance, provided, however, that any part of a lot or parcel within a tree
preservation area which has been dedicated to or conveyed to the village
pursuant to the Wayne historical and rural preservation program (title 9,
chapter 2 of this code) shall be counted toward the tree preservation area.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
 
Notes
  1. See section
1 11-2-2 of this title and section
  10-2-2 of this code.
11-9-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application: This section applies to all property in the village
including, but not limited to, lots or parcels on which is located an owner
occupied single- family residence or to single-family residences for which a
certificate of occupancy has been issued and all property which is the subject
of a development petition, except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in the public
right of way, or on other property owned or controlled by the village or in a
conservation area without prior written approval of the village engineer. Any
plantings authorized within the public right of way or on other village
property shall be documented by an approved landscape plan, and a hold harmless
agreement, in a form acceptable to the village attorney, shall be on file with
the village prior to planting. It shall be unlawful to plant any tree under
utility wires located on a village right of way or within a utility easement
that is anticipated to grow to a height that will interfere with such wire or
wires. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
   C.   Removal:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to remove any tree(s) or vegetation except as
provided in this chapter. A permit authorizing removal must be obtained from
the Village prior to the following activities:
         a.   Removal of trees or vegetation from a conservation area,
streetscape preservation area, or tree preservation area. In addition, removal
of dead, diseased, or noxious species from these areas shall only occur with
prior written approval of the village engineer.
         b.   Removal of a heritage tree.
         c.   Removal of trees or vegetation on any property that is the
subject of a development petition prior to issuance of the appropriate permit
or other required approval.
         d.   Removal of trees or shrubs from a village right of way or other
village owned property, except for removal performed by or on behalf of the
village.
         e.   Removal of trees or other vegetation from a floodplain or
floodway (as defined by DuPage or Kane County, as applicable or by the United
States army corps of engineers).
         f.   Removal of trees or other vegetation from utility easements,
rights of way or other property of any public, quasi-public or private utility
for the purpose of installing or maintaining utilities, unless certified as
necessary for health or safety reasons by the village engineer, or required for
bona fide emergency service reasons. Any tree removal on private property shall
not encroach upon, or damage any trees located in protected areas, on
neighboring properties or in the village right of way. Any permit authorizing
removal may be subject to such conditions that the village engineer may deem
necessary or appropriate to minimize damage to other trees or vegetation on a
site, including installation of protective fencing. Applications for a tree
removal permit shall be made on forms authorized by the village engineer, and
no permit shall be issued except pursuant to an application containing all
required information including, where applicable, a tree protection,
landscaping, or tree replacement plan. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004; amd. Ord. 04-15,
10-19-2004)
      2.   A permit shall not be required for the pruning or removal of any
tree(s) or other vegetation that the village determines to be hazardous under
section
11-9-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 04-15, 10-19-2004)
   D.   Permits Authorizing Removal: Permits authorizing removal pursuant to
subsection C of this section may be issued by the village engineer under the
following conditions:
      1.   The tree is dead or dying.
      2.   The tree is diseased.
      3.   The removal of the tree is consistent with established good forestry
practices.
      4.   Refusal to allow removal of the tree would deny the applicant all
reasonable and economically viable uses of the property.
      If none of the above criteria are satisfied, the village engineer may
authorize removal if it is mitigated by replacement trees in lieu of
preservation consisting of a double inch for inch replacement of the tree to be
removed, unless good forestry practices or an approved landscaping plan warrant
a lesser replacement, which in no case shall be less than an inch for inch
replacement of the tree to be removed. The replacement trees may be required on
the property from which the tree was removed, or on adjacent properties or
rights of way as determined to be necessary by the village engineer to mitigate
the loss of the tree or trees in a protected area.
   E.   Application Of Requirements Regarding Diseased And Infested Trees:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the removal of trees or
parts thereof which have been identified as being infected with contagious,
threatening diseases or infested with pests either of which threaten the health
and vitality of other trees whether on private or public property. Such trees
and infected or infested materials shall be removed and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of section
11-9-10 of this chapter.
   F.   Removal, Partial Nonemergency Tree Trimming, Pruning: All tree pruning
conducted by for profit tree services within the corporate boundaries of the
village of Wayne shall be done in a manner that is consistent with the
guidelines set forth by the International Society of Arboriculture, in their
publication entitled "Tree Pruning Guidelines, 1995", or as hereafter amended
for the purpose of protecting the health of trees and property values.
   G.   Nonemergency Pruning: Nonemergency pruning of all tree species shall be
permitted year round except as follows:
      All species of elms and white oaks shall not be pruned from March through
October.
      All species in the red oak group shall not be pruned from April through
July, unless the pruning wounds are treated with a tree wound dressing at the
time of pruning.
   H.   Injury: It shall be unlawful to intentionally injure any tree on
village right of way, on other public property or trees on private property in
a "protected area" as defined by this chapter.
   I.   Dangerous Trees: Any tree on private property which overhangs any
sidewalk, street, or other public property in such a way as to impede or
interfere with traffic, and any tree or limb which has become likely to fall on
or across any public right of way or public property, shall be trimmed or
removed by the owner of the property on which the tree grows so that the
obstruction or danger is removed. If a determination is made by the village
engineer that a tree poses an immediate threat to life or limb, the village
engineer may order the removal of the portion of the tree posing the immediate
threat.
   J.   Wires: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope to any tree in
any village right of way, parkway, or on other village property without the
prior written approval of the village engineer.
   K.   Clearance From Trees: Any person or company given the right to maintain
poles and wires in a village right of way and on village owned property, shall,
in the absence of a provision in the franchise agreement concerning the
subject, keep such wires and poles free from, and away from, all trees. In
addition, all such trees shall be kept properly trimmed in a manner that is
consistent with village regulations, subject to the approval of the village
engineer, so that no injury shall be done to either the poles and wires, or the
trees, by their contact.
   L.   Excavations: Excavations in streets or on other village owned property
shall occur in a manner that minimizes injury to any tree. In cases where the
excavation may impact the roots or any other part of a tree, prior written
approval from the village engineer is required before excavation may begin to
ensure that appropriate steps are taken to minimize or mitigate the effect of
such impact.
   M.   Permit Fees: The fee for the planting of a tree/vegetation or the
removal of a tree/vegetation shall be seventy five dollars ($75.00). The permit
fee shall be refunded to the applicant once the village engineer has determined
that the tree/vegetation proposed to be removed is classified under this
chapter as dead, dying or diseased or constitutes a noxious species. (Ord. 04-
01, 2-17-2004; amd. Ord. 24-13, 10-1-2024)
11-9-5: PROPERTY SUBJECT OF A DEVELOPMENT PETITION:
   A.   Approval: In approving a development petition, the historic sites
commission, plan commission, the zoning board of appeals or board of trustees
may establish conditions of approval that further the stated purpose of this
chapter.
   B.   Issuance Of A Permit: Prior to the issuance of a building permit for
any grading, building, utility or demolition activity, plans shall be submitted
to the village for approval to ensure preservation of trees and vegetation in
accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Applications: All applications for development shall include the
following information in a form acceptable to the village and as further
detailed in the permit application materials available from the village. Any of
the requirements may be waived by the village engineer if the existing trees
and vegetation on the site are not subject to the provisions of this chapter
due to size, species or condition.
      1.   Tree Survey: The survey shall include information on all existing
trees eight inches (8") DBH or larger and clusters of six (6) or more trees of
at least four inches (4") DBH. Information shall include the location, size,
species and condition of each tree. Each tree shown on the survey shall be
tagged on the site.
      2.   Grading Plan: A plan shall be submitted showing the existing
elevation of a site and the location and amount of all proposed grading and
fill. All existing trees eight inches (8") DBH or larger and all clusters of
six (6) or more trees of at least four inches (4") DBH shall be reflected on
the plan.
      3.   Plan Of Conservation Areas, Tree Preservation Areas And No
Disturbance Areas: The site plan shall reflect all conservation, tree
preservation, streetscape preservation and landscape areas.
      4.   Landscape Plan: A landscape plan shall be submitted to provide for
screening of a development from the roadway and from adjacent parcels and uses.
In addition, the plan shall provide for screening of buildings, mechanical
equipment and parking areas. The landscape plan shall also provide for
landscaping of the entrance to the development, the streetscape area, ponds,
drainage swales, berms or common areas. The landscape plan shall be consistent
with the provisions of this chapter and designed based on the village of Wayne
landscape guidelines and approved planting list as they may be established by
the board of trustees or its designees from time to time. (Subdivisions and
planned developments only.)
      5.   Location Of Utilities: A plan shall be submitted showing the
proposed location of all utilities. All existing trees eight inches (8") DBH or
larger and all clusters of six (6) or more trees of at least four inches (4")
DBH shall be reflected on the plan. Utilities shall be located in the driveway
areas to minimize the impact on the trees on the site. Alternative locations
for utilities may be approved by the village engineer if found to be consistent
with the purpose of this chapter. (Subdivisions and planned developments only.)
      6.   Street Tree Plan: A plan for the planting of trees along both
private and public streets shall be submitted consistent with the street tree
regulations of this chapter. (Subdivisions and planned developments only.)
      7.   Building Envelope: The final plan or plat of subdivision shall
reflect building envelopes that minimize impacts on trees identified for
protection on the subdivision plat and by this chapter. (Subdivisions and
planned developments only.)
   D.   Tree Replacement:
      1.   All Sites: Any tree, five inches (5") in diameter or greater, for
which approval has been requested and obtained by the applicant to be removed
from any site, parkway or proposed right of way pursuant to an approved site
plan or permit for a building or other approved use or grading and filling, a
petition for approval of a preliminary plat of subdivision or planned
development, or a request to the village board to clear or remove trees from
vacant property shall, if removed, be replaced, unless such requirement is
waived pursuant to the waiver provisions of this chapter.
All trees, five inches (5") in diameter or greater, regardless of variety,
shall be replaced by trees of approved varieties, the diameter of which in
total equals the diameter of the tree removed, rounded upward, but in no event
shall replacement trees be less than two and one-half inches (21/2") in
diameter measured twelve inches (12") from the ground, and thirty five percent
(35%) of such replacement trees shall have a diameter of three inches (3") or
more measured in the same manner. For example, if a six inch (6") diameter tree
is removed and replaced by three inch (3") diameter trees, two (2) 3-inch
diameter trees are required, and such trees shall be planted as close to the
location of the existing trees to be removed as practical, but in no event
further than two hundred feet (200') from such location.
      2.   Trees Killed Due To Construction: Trees to be preserved and
protected which die, or are in poor condition, (as a result of construction or
related activities) within twelve (12) months after the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, or acceptance of land improvements by the village
engineer shall be replaced by the applicant in accordance with the method
indicated in subsection D1 of this section.
      3.   Failure Of Replacement Trees To Survive: Replacement trees planted
pursuant to these regulations which die, or are in poor condition, within
eighteen (18) months after planting shall be replaced by the person originally
obligated to plant such trees, in accordance with the method indicated in
subsection D1 of this section.
      4.   No Credit For Replacement Trees: Credit for replacement trees
planted pursuant to provisions of this section will not be given with respect
to satisfying obligations to plant additional or new trees under this chapter
or other village ordinances and regulations.
      5.   Approved Tree Varieties: Replacement trees shall be varieties
approved for the intended location as listed in section
11-9-14 of this chapter. Only tree varieties listed in table I, section
11-9-14 of this chapter may be planted in any village or private right of way.
Tree varieties listed in tables I and II, section
11-9-14 of this chapter may be planted in parks, golf courses, other open
space, public areas, gardens or private property. Any tree variety not
specifically prohibited pursuant to this chapter may be planted on any lot
containing a single-family detached residence. Tables I, II and III are set out
in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
   E.   Waiver:
      1.   Credit For Existing Trees: Subject to the replacement provisions of
this chapter, if trees existing on a site are preserved, a waiver of the
requirement for the planting of some or all of the trees required by the
subdivision or other regulations of the village may be obtained as follows:
         a.   Parkway, Public Or Private Open Space Trees: The plan commission
may recommend and the village board may waive a portion or all of the
requirement to plant parkway or public or private open space trees if trees, of
an approved variety, existing in rights of way or property designated as public
or private open space are retained and survive and are in good condition twelve
(12) months after acceptance of adjacent land improvements by the village
engineer.
         b.   Residential: With respect to single-family sites, the village
board may waive a portion or all of the requirement to plant additional trees
due to the existence and retention of approved varieties on the property.
      2.   Tree Replacement Requirements: It is the general desire of the
village to retain all existing tree rows, woodlands, hedgerows and undergrowth
in the village, regardless of the quality of the horticultural varieties, in
order to maintain a natural habitat for wildlife, and this objective can
conflict with the efficient or desired plan of development or use of sites.
Accordingly, applicants and petitioners, when presenting site plans or
requesting approval of permit applications for buildings or other permitted
uses or grading and filling, must submit information which will demonstrate
their attempt to retain existing trees, woodlands, hedgerows and undergrowth.
An applicant or petitioner may request a waiver from any requirement to replace
trees or vegetation which must be removed to accomplish the objectives of the
plan and/or permit application. The village board may approve such waiver in
the case of undue or unreasonable hardship after considering the attempts made
by the applicant or petitioner to preserve existing trees, the reasons given
for needing removal, the explanation submitted as to why tree replacement
should be waived, and the landscape plan details submitted with the plan.
   F.   Fees: The village board, plan commission or building and zoning
department may, at its option, based on the particular site, and after
providing written notice and a written estimate to the applicant, require the
services of an arborist certified in the state for consultation, advice and
inspection, in which event the applicant shall reimburse the village for the
fee charged by the arborist for such consultation. The applicant shall also
reimburse the village for any other review fees incurred by the village in
connection with this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-6: LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS; SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED RESIDENCES ON
INDIVIDUALLY ZONED LOTS:
   A.   Requirements: The property owner or applicant for a single- family
residential building permit for construction of a single- family detached
residence on an individually zoned lot is required:
      1.   To plant grass or install sod on the lot, exclusive of preserved
wooded areas, landscaped areas or preserved or undisturbed natural areas.
      2.   To plant one tree of two and one-half inches (21/2") minimum
diameter measured twelve inches (12") from the ground for each eight thousand
(8,000) square feet of area of the lot, with the resulting number being rounded
downward to eliminate a fraction. The trees to be planted must be selected from
the varieties listed in section
11-9-14 of this chapter; fifty percent (50%) of the quantity required shall be
from table I and fifty percent (50%) shall be from table II. Tables I, II and
III are set out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
      3.   To complete such landscaping during the first growing season after
the completion of construction, but in no event longer than twelve (12) months
after the issuance of a building permit.
      4.   At the time of obtaining a building permit, to make a landscaping
guarantee deposit with the village of a deposit equal to two hundred dollars
($200.00) per required tree to assure completion of landscaping requirements 1
.
      5.   To landscape detention/retention ponds in accordance with the
appropriate requirements detailed in section
11-9-7, "Landscaping And Screening Regulations; All Other Sites", of this
chapter, and to make a landscaping guarantee deposit in amount equal to the
value of the landscaping required by those regulations.
   B.   Refund Of Deposit: At the time an owner or applicant requests a refund
from the village of the landscaping guarantee deposit, in order to obtain such
refund, evidence of compliance with the requirement of this chapter to plant
trees of appropriate value must be presented to the building and zoning
department, the planting of grass or sod as required in this chapter must be
completed and the landscaping of retention/detention ponds must be completed,
if applicable. If such evidence of compliance is not submitted within eighteen
(18) months after issuance of a certificate of occupancy, in addition to other
remedies provided in this title, such guarantee deposit shall be forfeited.
(Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-6 of this code.
11-9-7: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING REGULATIONS; ALL OTHER SITES:
   A.   Purpose: The landscaping and screening requirements specified herein
are intended to foster aesthetically pleasing development which will protect
and preserve the appearance, character, general health, safety and welfare of
the community. Specifically, these regulations are intended to increase the
compatibility of adjacent uses requiring a buffer or screen between uses and,
in doing so, minimize the harmful impact of noise, dust and other debris; motor
vehicle headlight glare or other artificial light intrusions, and other
objectionable activities or impacts conducted or created by an adjoining or
nearby use.
   B.   Landscape Plan Required: Where submittal of a site plan is a condition
of review and approval of a petition or application for a building permit, or
where a preliminary plat of subdivision or planned development has been
submitted for approval, a landscape plan shall be concurrently submitted in
accordance with the requirements of this section.
   C.   Standards And Requirements: All developments requiring site plan
approval shall provide landscaping and screening in accordance with the
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Waiver: Because of the complexities and possible variations inherent in
the development of land and different land use situations, making it difficult
to establish requirements that are universally practical, the village board may
grant a waiver of certain requirements of this chapter based upon undue or
unreasonable hardship, after considering the attempts made by the applicant or
petitioner to preserve existing trees, the reasons given for needing removal,
the explanation submitted as to why tree replacement should be waived, and the
landscape plan details submitted with the plan, so long as such waiver does not
frustrate the purpose set forth in subsection A of this section.
   E.   Estimated Costs Submitted; Subdivisions: The estimate of costs to
implement an approved landscape plan relating to a preliminary plat of
subdivision shall be provided to the village engineer by the developer or
applicant for his review and acceptance and, as approved by the village
engineer, shall be included in the cost of public improvements subject to the
performance guarantee requirements of the subdivision regulations.
   F.   Estimated Cost Submitted; Other Sites: The estimate of costs to
implement an approved landscape plan relating to a nonresidential building
permit application or pursuant to site plan approval shall be submitted to the
village engineer prior to the issuance of a building permit. The village
engineer, after accepting the estimated cost as being reasonable, may also
require the applicant to make a cash deposit equal to fifteen percent (15%) of
the estimated cost to implement a landscape plan, as a performance guarantee
with respect to the requirements in this chapter for the maintenance and
survival of plant material and trees, which shall include an estimate of any
arborist's fee required pursuant to subsection I of this section. In the event
the applicant wishes to obtain a certificate of occupancy before completion of
the installation of all landscaping, the village engineer may require the
applicant to make a cash deposit equal to the cost to complete the landscaping.
   G.   Guarantee And Maintenance Of Landscaping: Appropriate care and
maintenance of plant material, including trees, shall be provided to keep such
growth alive and in good condition for a period of eighteen (18) months from
the date of planting. Diseased or dead plant material shall be replaced by the
developer or applicant at no cost to the village. Plant materials, including
trees, required for screening purposes as set forth in subsections L and M of
this section, must be maintained or replaced by the owner of the property as a
condition of the continued use of the property for other than single-family
detached residential purposes.
   H.   Clear Site Distance: Any clear site distance required by village
regulations for public safety shall supersede landscape requirements of this
chapter when so certified by the village engineer.
   I.   Fees: The village board, plan commission or building and zoning
department may, at its option, based on the particular site, and after
providing written notice and a written estimate to the applicant, require the
services of an arborist certified in the state of Illinois, for consultation,
advice and inspection, in which event the applicant shall reimburse the village
for the fee charged by the arborist for such consultation. The applicant shall
also reimburse the village for any other review fees incurred by the village in
connection with this chapter.
   J.   Landscape Plan Details: Landscape plans shall include, at a minimum,
the following details:
      1.   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings and
structures, including adjacent lot lines.
      2.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed parking
lots and drives, roadways, entryways and rights of way, sidewalks, equestrian
trails, bicycle paths, ground signs, refuse disposal areas, bicycle parking
areas, fences, freestanding electrical equipment, freestanding HVAC/mechanical
equipment and other freestanding structural features.
      3.   Species, size and location of existing trees and woodlands,
hedgerows, floodways and floodplains and proposed plant material which will be
part of the final landscape design. Existing trees in excess of five inches
(5") in diameter to be removed must be clearly designated by species, trunk
size and location.
      4.   Quantity of each type of existing and proposed plant material and
trees which will be part of the final landscape design.
      5.   Landscape treatment such as berming, contouring, shaping, ornamental
lighting, paving materials, nonplant elements, fences, planters, etc. All
berming and contouring of land shall be identified by one foot (1') contours on
the landscape plan.
      6.   Method of screening waste disposal areas (trash enclosures) and
elevations with construction design.
      7.   As applicable, the area (square footage) of the following must be
included on all landscape plans:
         a.   Total lot area;
         b.   Total landscaped area;
         c.   Total area of parking lots and driveways; and
         d.   Total area of interior parking lot landscaping.
      8.   Elevations, cross sections, and other details as may reasonably be
required.
      9.   A written statement stating how the plan meets the design criteria
contained in subsection K of this section.
   K.   Design Criteria:
      1.   Preservation Of Existing Trees: The developer or applicant shall
make every reasonable effort to save all healthy trees and tree and hedgerow
lines, as well as bushes and undergrowth in wooded areas, floodways and
floodplains.
      2.   Compatible Plantings: The developer or applicant shall ensure that
all plantings are compatible to soil, weather and environmental conditions
which exist.
      3.   Scale And Nature Of Landscape Material: The scale and nature of
landscape material should be appropriate to the site and structures.
      4.   Selection Of Plant Material: Plant material should be selected for
its form, texture, color and concern for its ultimate growth.
      5.   Evergreens: Evergreens shall be incorporated into the landscape
treatment of a site, particularly in those areas screening parking lots from
dedicated public rights of way or property zoned for residential use.
      6.   Softening Of Walls And Fences: Plant materials should be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building, walls, fences and other
barriers to create a softening effect.
      7.   Planting Beds: Planting beds should be mulched with bark, chips or
similar materials.
      8.   Detention/Retention Basins And Ponds: To the maximum extent
possible, trees and natural vegetation shall be preserved around detention/
retention basins and ponds.
   L.   Landscaping And Screening Requirements; General:
      1.   Shade Trees: Shade trees of approved varieties shall be provided at
the equivalent of not more than forty feet (40') apart along the abutting
property lines and roadways unless different spacing is appropriate based on
the varieties chosen from table I, section
11-9-14 of this chapter, but in no event shall such spacing exceed fifty feet
(50'). Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate
by the village engineer so as to not conflict with existing or proposed utility
locations. Tables I, II and III are set out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
      2.   Other Planting Materials: Other landscaping materials, ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live materials may be
provided at appropriate locations along the abutting property line.
      3.   Total Coverage Required: Except for woodlands preserved in a natural
state and except as otherwise specified, all areas of the site which are not
paved shall be landscaped with trees, shrubs, flowers, ground cover and/or sod
or grass to retard water runoff. Where applicable, front and side yard areas
not otherwise landscaped shall be sodded and rear yards, if not sodded, must be
grass seeded.
      4.   Additional Screening: Screening may be required at the back of any
commercial, limited business or business district site or multiple-family
building. Screening requirements will be compatible with the overall design of
the project and the adjacent uses within sight distances. The opacity of
required screening shall be up to one hundred percent (100%) as approved by the
village board.
      5.   Screening Of Refuse Disposal Areas: All refuse disposal areas shall
be completely screened on all four (4) sides by a wood or decorative masonry
fence or an equivalent material to a height of not less than six feet (6') but
not more than seven feet (7') with appropriate landscaping on three (3) sides.
      6.   Detention/Retention Basins And Ponds: When retained natural
landscaping around detention basins or ponds is absent or inadequate,
additional landscaping shall be required. Such landscaping should include shade
and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting
materials, and other materials as required by the village engineer to prevent
erosion at the water line. The board of trustees may require landscaping in an
amount of up to twenty percent (20%) of the estimated cost of construction of
said ponds, which estimated costs shall be submitted to the village engineer
when applicable to a subdivision and the building and zoning department when
applicable to a building permit.
All such estimated costs, including the cost of required landscaping, shall be
considered part of the public improvements for a subdivision or planned
development and included in the performance guarantee requirements of the
subdivision regulations.
In the case of a permit application for a building or approved use, a deposit
equal to the cost of required landscaping of such required retention/detention
pond shall be made prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      7.   Foundation Landscaping: A landscaping area, a minimum of ten feet
(10') in width, ("foundation landscaping area") may be required by the board of
trustees to be located around the perimeter of all proposed buildings shown on
required site plans. A wider area may be required around buildings with
sufficient bulk to make such a requirement appropriate and reasonable. Such
landscaping shall be in accordance with the standards listed as follows:
         a.   Retain Open Foundation Landscape Areas: Required foundation
landscaping areas shall remain open and free of obstructions, buildings and
paving except for those areas shown on the site plan by the applicant to be
essential to the use of the proposed structure.
         b.   Landscaping Materials: Such landscaping shall consist of shade
and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, and/or other live planting
materials. Particular attention shall be paid to the screening of mechanical
equipment, bicycle parking areas and loading docks; softening large expanses of
building walls; and accenting building entrances and architectural features.
   M.   Additional Landscaping And Screening Requirements:
      1.   Sites Subject To Additional Requirements: Additional landscaping and
screening may be required by the board of trustees where the subject property
abuts or is across a public or private right of way from property zoned or with
a designated use in the comprehensive plan which is different than the subject
property in any of the following situations:
Nonresidential property versus nonresidential property.
Nonresidential property versus single-family detached residential property.
Nonresidential property versus residential property other than single-family
detached residential property.
Residential property other than single-family detached residential property
versus single-family detached residential housing.
      2.   Inadequate Adjacent Landscaping: In the event the landscaping and
screening are inadequate or absent on abutting property or across a public or
private right of way from any developed property which would, to meet the
requirements of this chapter, be required to provide such landscaping or
screening, any applicant for other than a single-family detached residential
permit may be required by the board of trustees to provide such landscaping and
screening along the perimeter of the applicant's property where applicable.
      3.   Example Of Additional Landscaping And Screening:
Nonresidential property abutting residential property.
Continuous landscaping, a minimum of three feet (3') in height at installation,
and in a design satisfactory to the board of trustees, shall be provided along
that portion of the abutting property line from the front building setback line
to the front lot line of the abutting residential property. Such landscaping
shall consist of berms, trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live
planting materials.
Screening to a minimum of six feet (6') in height at installation, and in a
design satisfactory to the board of trustees shall be provided along the length
of the abutting property line to the front building setback line of the
abutting residential property. Such screening shall consist of landscaped
berms, wood or decorative masonry fence, wall or other comparable barrier with
appropriate landscaping.
   N.   Parking Lot Landscaping: All parking lots, considered in total for the
site, designed for six (6) or more parking spaces shall provide landscaping in
accordance with the requirements listed as follows:
      1.   Interior Area:
         a.   Minimum Area Defined: For areas with six (6) or more parking
spaces, not less than five percent (5%) of the interior of a parking lot shall
be devoted to landscaping. The "interior" of a parking lot shall be defined as
the area between the back of curbs of the parking lot. Landscaping areas
located along the perimeter of a parking lot as required herein shall not be
included toward satisfying this requirement, nor shall this landscaping be
counted toward any minimum landscape area required elsewhere in this chapter.
         b.   Minimum Size Of Landscape Area: Interior parking lot landscaping
areas shall be a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) square feet in area. Such
landscaping areas shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width.
         c.   Landscaping Areas, Design And Materials:
            (1)   Dispersion: Interior parking lot landscaping areas shall
generally be dispersed throughout the parking lot in a design satisfactory to
the board of trustees.
            (2)   Landscaping Material:
   (A) Type: The primary landscaping materials used in parking lots shall be
trees which provide shade or are capable of providing shade. Ornamental trees,
shrubbery, hedges, and other live planting materials may be used to supplement
the tree landscaping but shall not be the sole contribution to the landscaping.
   (B) Quantity: One shade tree shall be provided for every one hundred eighty
(180) square feet of landscaping area.
   (C) Ground Cover: A minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of every interior
parking lot landscaping area shall be comprised of live landscaping, exclusive
of grass.
      2.   Perimeter:
         a.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
            (1)   Across From Residential Property: Where a parking lot is
located on the opposite side of a dedicated public right of way from property
zoned for any residential use, continuous landscaping shall be provided across
one hundred percent (100%) of the street frontage (excluding any curb cuts) to
a minimum height of three feet (3') at installation. Such landscaping shall
consist of berms, shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges
and/or other live planting materials.
            (2)   Across From Nonresidential Property: Where a parking lot is
located on the opposite side of a dedicated public right of way from property
zoned for nonresidential use, landscaping shall be provided proportionally to
provide fifty percent (50%) coverage of the street frontage to a minimum height
of three feet (3') at installation. Such landscaping shall consist of berm,
shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, and/or other live planting
materials.
         b.   Rear And Interior Side Yards:
            (1)   Abutting Residential Property: Where a parking lot abuts
property zoned for residential use, landscaping and screening may be required
as follows:
   (A) Screening: Screening to a minimum of six feet (6') in height at
installation, and in a design satisfactory to the board of trustees, shall be
provided along that portion of the parking lot abutting the residential
property. Such screening shall consist of a continuous landscaped berm, solid
wood or decorative masonry fence, or other comparable barrier. If the parking
lot extends beyond the front building setback line of the abutting residential
property, for the portion the parking lot extending beyond such setback line to
the front property line, the board of trustees may require continuous
landscaping, a minimum of three feet (3') in height at installation, and in a
design satisfactory to the board of trustees, in lieu of the aforementioned
fence or wall. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, trees, evergreens,
shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials.
   (B) Shade Trees: Shade trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not more
than forty feet (40') apart along that portion of the parking lot abutting the
residential property unless different spacing is appropriate based on the
varieties chosen from table I, section
11-9-14 of this chapter, but in no event shall such spacing exceed fifty feet
(50'). Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly as determined appropriate
by the board of trustees and the village engineer. Tables I, II and III are set
out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
   (C) Other Planting Material: Other landscaping material including ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials shall
be provided at intermittent locations along that portion of the parking lot
abutting the residential property.
            (2)   Abutting Nonresidential Property: Where a parking lot abuts
property zoned for nonresidential use, landscaping shall be provided
proportionally to provide fifty percent (50%) coverage of that portion of the
parking lot abutting the property line to a minimum height of three feet (3')
at installation. Such landscaping shall consist of berms, shade and ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges and/or other live planting materials. This
landscaping is equivalent to the placement of shrub clusters, containing seven
(7) to nine (9) shrubs per cluster, spaced at intervals of approximately thirty
five feet (35') along the property line. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-8: LANDSCAPING; PUBLIC OR PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY AND DRAINAGEWAYS:
   A.   Parkway Trees: Parkway trees shall be provided on the public or private
right of way of any parcel to be developed. Parkway trees shall be provided in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Quantity: Parkway trees shall be provided at the equivalent of not
more than forty feet (40') apart in the right of way adjacent to the parcel,
unless different spacing is appropriate based on the varieties chosen from
table I, section
11-9-14 of this chapter, but in no event shall such spacing exceed fifty feet
(50'). Tables I, II and III are set out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
      2.   Spacing: Such trees may be clustered or spaced linearly in the right
of way as determined appropriate by the village board. Such placement shall not
endanger the safety of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
      3.   Size: All new or replacement trees provided shall have a minimum
trunk diameter of two and one-half inches (21/2"), as measured twelve inches
(12") above the established ground level, upon installation.
      4.   Form And Quality: All trees shall be park grade or better and shall
have the proper height, crown width, height to first branch, root ball width
and branch distribution for the species.
      5.   Guarantee: All parkway trees shall be guaranteed for eighteen (18)
months after planting by the developer or applicant.
      6.   Species: Species for parkway planting shall be selected and/or
approved by the board of trustees with the intention of creating an
aesthetically pleasing landscape and avoiding large monocultures, encouraging
diversity for public benefit. Trees which are suitable, and which are not
suitable for parkway use, are listed in section
11-9-14 of this chapter. Tables I, II and III are set out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
      7.   Planting Details: All parkway trees shall be properly installed with
respect to depth of planting, hole size and quality of soil, and thereafter
maintained to ensure upright growth and form. Parkway trees shall be planted
within or near the right of way or adjacent utility easements as approved by
the village engineer and the board of trustees.
      8.   Inspection And Acceptance: Final inspection and acceptance of
parkway trees shall be made by the board of trustees by appropriate resolution.
   B.   Areas To Be Graded And Sodded: Parkways within the public or private
right of way, swales draining two (2) or more lots, and those areas
specifically referenced by this title, shall be graded and sodded. Areas to be
sodded shall be graded smooth and topped with at least four inches (4") of
black dirt after compacting and removal of stumps, trees that cannot be saved,
boulders and other debris. Swales which require sodding shall have a minimum
sodding width of ten feet (10'). (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-9: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY:
   A.   Tree Protection Fencing:
      1.   Location: Prior to the issuance of any grading, utility, building,
fence or demolition permits, tree protection fencing shall be erected on the
site consistent with the approved site plan and generally at a point not to
exceed twenty feet (20') beyond the foundation walls of all buildings and five
feet (5') from the edge of hardscape surfaces. The fence, once erected, on the
site, shall remain in place, in a full upright position, until all construction
activity on the site is completed, the site is ready for the final landscape
grading, and removal of the fence has been approved by the village engineer.
      2.   Type: Tree protection fencing shall be wood, plastic or chainlink
fencing. The fence shall be four feet (4') in height with steel supporting
posts eight feet to ten feet (8' to 10') on center. The posts shall be driven
into the ground to hold the fence in an upright position throughout
construction on the site. Based on the review of the site plan, a chainlink
fence may be required by the village engineer in situations where construction
activity must occur in areas that are close to trees or areas to be preserved.
   B.   Location Of Utilities: A series of wood stakes, extending no less than
three feet (3') above the ground, shall be used to identify the path of each
utility. A ribbon will be attached to the top of the stake using colors
consistent with JULIE guidelines.
      1.   Augering: The augering of utilities shall be required and specified
on the approved fencing plan where utility locations have the potential to
materially damage trees eight inches (8") DBH or larger or clusters of six (6)
or more trees at least four inches (4") DBH.
   C.   Site Inspections And Approvals; Tree Fencing And Utility Locations: At
any time that an inspection occurs and tree protection fencing is not properly
installed or utilities are not properly located and staked, a reinspection fee
of five hundred dollars ($500.00) will be assessed for each follow up
inspection until the site is adequately fenced and the utilities are properly
located and staked.
   D.   Site Clearing: Following review and approval of the site plan and
fencing, and the issuance of a demolition or building permit, the lot may be
cleared of trees within the approved construction and driveway areas. The
removal shall occur by use of manual saws, chain saws and stump grinders only.
No other equipment shall be used for removal of trees without the prior written
approval of the village engineer.
   E.   Excavation: If there is insufficient cleared area on the site, as
determined by the village engineer, to store the soil from excavation until it
is needed for backfilling without impacting trees identified for protection,
the soil shall be temporarily removed from the construction site until the
backfilling is to occur.
   F.   Finished Grade: Fill materials used to establish finished grade in
accordance with the approved grading plan shall be top quality black soil. Fill
materials shall not be permitted around the trunk of a tree. To this end, a
tree well equal to or greater than the critical root zone of the tree is needed
to protect the tree from fill materials. Adequate drainage shall be provided in
each tree well to prevent the collection of water. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-10: CONTAGIOUS OR THREATENING DISEASES AND INFESTATIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Tree Varieties: The trees listed in table III, section
11-9-14 of this chapter shall not be permitted to be planted within the
village. Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, it shall not
constitute a violation of this chapter to permit any prohibited tree variety to
remain on any land within the village if such tree existed prior to the
effective date hereof nor to permit or fail to prevent the new or subsequent
growth of any such tree variety through natural propagation. Tables I, II and
III are set out in section
11-9-14 of this chapter.
   B.   Trees Affected With Contagious Or Threatening Diseases Or Infestations
Declared To Be Public Nuisances: All species and varieties of elm trees
infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease and trees infected with
oak wilt as determined by laboratory analysis conducted by or under the
direction of the village engineer and trees infested with Asian longhorn beetle
or other diseases or infestations that threaten the urban forest are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
   C.   Breeding Places Of Elm Bark Beetles Declared To Be Public Nuisances:
All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or substantially dead, and
all dead elm wood to which the bark is still attached are hereby declared to be
public nuisances.
   D.   Unlawful To Maintain Public Nuisances: It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land in the village, to permit or
maintain on any such lot or parcel of land, a public nuisance as set out in
subsections B and C of this section and it shall be the duty of any such owner
or occupant to promptly remove any such tree so identified by the village
engineer and dispose of it either by chipping or burning. Trees less than five
percent (5%) infected may be treated in an effort to save the tree with
permission from the village engineer.
   E.   Enforcement: In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter and to
implement the enforcement thereof, the village engineer is hereby authorized
and empowered to enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the village at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting any trees or stored wood
situated thereon, and the village engineer may remove such specimens from any
such tree as are required for the purposes of the laboratory analysis referred
to in this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
take any action to prevent the village engineer from entering onto any lot or
parcel of land in the village for the purpose of such inspection, or to
interfere with the village engineer in the performance of any duties provided
under the provisions of this section.
   F.   Duty Of Owner To Remove Diseased Tree Or Breeding Place: If it is
determined that any tree is a public nuisance as provided above, the village
engineer shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner and occupant of the
lot or parcel of land on which such tree or stored wood is located, a written
notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions of this chapter. If
the owner or occupant upon whom such notice is served, fails, neglects or
refuses to remove and destroy the public nuisance within thirty (30) days after
service of such notice, the village engineer may proceed to remove and dispose
of such tree or stored wood and assess the cost thereof against the owner or
occupant of such lot or parcel of land, and the amount of such cost shall be
paid by such owner to the village.
   G.   Notice To Owner: Service of notice to an owner or occupant shall be
served by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested. For
purposes of this section, an "owner" shall be the person to whom the tax bill
for the general taxes for the last preceding year on the lot or parcel on which
the diseased or infected tree is located was sent.
   H.   Village May Abate Nuisance And Assess The Cost To The Owner: Provided
that notice to an owner is sent in accordance with subsection F of this
section, any costs incurred by the village in the abatement of a public
nuisance pursuant to this section may be assessed against the record owner of
the subject property, and the village may place a lien upon such property for
those costs in the manner provided by law.
   I.   Nuisance On Village Property: Any tree or stored wood, on property
owned by the village which is a public nuisance as provided in this section
shall promptly be removed and disposed of under the supervision of the village
engineer, at the expense of the village. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-11: TREE BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: There is hereby created a tree board for the village,
consisting of the village president and board of trustees, ex officio. The
village president shall serve as chairman of the tree board.
   B.   Compensation: Members of the tree board shall serve without
compensation.
   C.   Duties: The tree board shall administer the provisions of the Wayne
comprehensive tree preservation and landscape control ordinance, including
responsibility for the planting, care and protection of the village's trees and
to hear and render decisions on appeals from any person aggrieved by the
enforcement and application of this chapter. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-12: HISTORIC BUILDINGS, LANDMARKS, SITES OR DISTRICTS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any landscaping or
screening requirements herein are subject to the approval of the historic sites
commission and plan commission in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the zoning ordinance for any federal, state or local historic or landmark
buildings or sites or for property located in any historic district 1 . (Ord.
04-01, 2-17-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 2, "Plan Commission"; title 9, chapter 1, "Historic
  Sites Commission"; and title 10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code.
11-9-13: VIOLATIONS; REQUIRED CORRECTIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Tree Removal: Removal of any tree in violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per
violation, with every inch of the tree measured at DBH being a separate
violation. The diameter of any trees that are removed prior to the issuance of
a permit shall be determined by the diameter of the stump where cut at six
inches (6") from surrounding ground level. In the case where a stump has been
removed, the diameter of the tree shall be determined by the village engineer
based on a prior tree survey or an aerial photo. In addition to the applicable
fine, each tree removed, or determined by the village engineer to be
irreparably damaged, shall be replaced consistent with this chapter.
   B.   Replacement: In issuing a permit authorizing the removal of a tree
pursuant to this chapter or in establishing the replacement requirement for a
tree as required by this chapter, the size of each replacement tree shall be no
less than three inches (3") DBH at the time of planting. The location and the
species of the replacement tree shall be approved by the village engineer. The
village engineer may waive or reduce the requirement for planting a replacement
tree, or trees, if such action is consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
   C.   Removal Of Vegetation In Protected Areas: Removal of vegetation in
conservation areas, in the public right of way and in other areas protected by
this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) per violation, with every one hundred (100) square feet of
land area cleared or fraction thereof being a separate violation. A replacement
landscape plan shall be submitted for approval within thirty (30) days of the
violation. The landscape plan shall be designed to restore the area to its
previous planting density with native vegetation. In addition to the fine, a
cash bond shall be posted with the village to ensure replanting of the area in
a manner consistent with the vegetation removed subject to the approval of the
village engineer as specified in this chapter. The amount of the cash bond
shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of replanting. Replanting shall
occur within a time frame as established by the village engineer and interim
measures shall be required by the village engineer to prevent storm water run
off and erosion.
   D.   Tree Trimming And Pruning: Trimming or pruning of any tree by for
profit tree services or utility companies in violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
violation with each tree trimmed or pruned being a separate violation. In the
event that the trimming or pruning is determined by the village engineer to
likely cause the death of the tree or shrub, the provisions of subsection A of
this section shall be applicable in lieu of this subsection.
   E.   Tree Or Vegetation Removal; Stop Work Order: The building or zoning
director or his designee, upon the recommendation of the village engineer,
shall have the authority to stop work at a site if unauthorized tree or
vegetation removal is occurring. Once a stop work order is issued, work shall
not commence until: 1) the necessary permits have been issued, 2) any
applicable fine has been paid, and 3) the requirements of subsections A through
C of this section have been satisfied. Violations of a stop work order shall
result in a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for every activity in
violation of the stop work order, and any violation of a stop work order shall
subject the offending person to arrest.
   F.   Tree Fencing Violation: Removal or partial removal of, or failure to
maintain in a full upright position, any required protective tree fencing,
except in accordance with a tree removal permit or an approved tree protection
plan, shall constitute a violation of this chapter that is subject to a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day that the violation
continues. The village engineer shall have the authority to stop work at a site
if a violation of the tree fencing requirement is found to exist. Once a stop
work order is issued, work shall not commence until the fencing has been
reinstalled and approved by the village engineer and all applicable fines have
been paid.
   G.   Tree Fencing Violation; Repeated Offenses: In the case of a repeated
violation of the tree fencing requirement, in addition to all applicable fines,
erection of a chainlink fence may be required before work is allowed to
commence on the site.
   H.   Storage Of Soil, Fill Material, Construction Materials And Equipment:
Storage of any materials or equipment within the areas protected by tree
preservation fencing or within ten feet (10') of any tree identified for
preservation on the site plan, is prohibited and shall be subject to a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each day that the violation
continues. The village engineer shall have the authority to stop work at a site
if materials or equipment are found to violate this provision. Once a stop work
order is issued, work shall not commence until the materials and equipment are
removed from the protected area, any protective fencing has been reinstalled
and approved by the village engineer, and all applicable fines are paid.
   I.   Fines For All Other Violations: Any other violation of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day that the violation continues. In the event that the
fines set forth in subsection A or C of this section are determined to be
inapplicable or invalid, then a minimum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) shall be assessed each day that the violation continues without
correction.
   J.   Injunctive Relief: In addition to any fine permitted or required to be
imposed hereunder, the village may seek injunctive relief to prevent an actual
or threatened violation of this chapter, and may also seek mandatory injunctive
relief to require the replacement of any trees, hedgerows, or other natural
areas damaged or removed contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the board
of trustees finding that the village will be irreparably harmed by the removal
of, or damage to, trees, hedgerows or other natural areas or resources contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, and that the imposition of a fine alone is
an inadequate remedy for such violations.
   K.   Appeals: Appeals from any administrative decision made under this
chapter may be taken by the applicant or by any other person adversely affected
by the decision, to the tree board in the same manner as with the procedures
relating to appeals to the zoning board of appeals in the Wayne zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-14: TABLES OF APPROVED AND PROHIBITED TREE VARIETIES:
   TABLE I
   The trees in table I are recommended for planting
   in public and private parkway spaces.
Common Name Scientific Name Variety
Common Name                 Scientific Name         Variety
Freeman maple               Acer freemanii          "Marmo"
Crimson king Norway maple   Acer plantanoides       "Crimson king"
Emerald luster Norway maple Acer plantanoides       "Emerald luster"
Schwedler Norway maple      Acer plantanoides       "Schwedler green"
Green Mountain sugar maple  Acer saccharum          "Green Mountain"
Marshall seedless green ash Fraxinum pennsylvanica  "Marshall's seedless"
Summit green ash            Fraxinus pennsylvanica  "Summit"
Ginko                       Ginko biloba            Male only
Skyline honey locust        Gledista triacanthos    "Skyline"
Kentucky coffee tree        Gymnocladus dioicus     Male only
Golden rain tree            Koelreuteria paniculata
Tulip tree                  Lirodendron tulipifera
Tupelo                      Nyssa sylvatica
Swamp white oak             Quercus bicolor
Shingle oak                 Quercus imbricaria
Bur oak                     Quercus macrocarpa
Chinkapin oak               Quercus muhlenbergii
Chestnut oak                Quercus prinus
Shumard oak                 Quercus shumardii
Peking tree lilac           Syringa pekinensis
Japanese tree lilac         Syringa reticulata      "Ivory silk"
American basswood           Tilia americana
Littleleaf linden           Tilia chordata          "Greenspire"
Redmond linden              Tilia euchlora          "Redmond"
Accolade hybrid elm         Ulmus wareii            "Accolade"
Japanese zelkova            Zelkova serrata         "Village green"
 
   TABLE II
   The trees in table II are recommended for planting in parks, golf
   courses, other green space, public areas or pursuant to
   subdivision or landscape approval.
Common Name Scientific Name Variety
Common Name                 Scientific Name              Variety
White fir                   Abies concolor
Hedge maple                 Acer campestre
Amur maple                  Acer ginnala
Red maple                   Acer rubrum                  "Red sunset"
Silver maple                Acer saccharinum
Ohio buckeye                Aesculus glabra
Black alder                 Alnus glutinosa
River birch                 Betula nigra
American hornbeam           Carpinus caroliniana
Shagbark hickory            Carya ovata
Chinese chestnut            Castaea mollissima
Common hackberry            Celtis occidentalis
Katsura tree                Cercidiphyllum japonicum
White fringe tree           Chionanthus virginicus
Yellowwood                  Cladrastis lutea
Cornelian cherry dogwood    Cornus mas
Turkish hazel               Corylus colurna
Cockspur hawthorn           Crataegus crus-galli
Washington hawthorn         Crataegus phaenopyrum
Dotted hawthorn             Crataegus punctata
Persimmon                   Diospyros virginiana
Blue ash                    Fraxinus quadrangulata
European larch              Larix decidua
Sweet gum                   Liquidamber styraciflua
Tulip tree                  Liriodendron tulipifera
Magnolia                    Magnolia x loebneri          "Merrill"
Crab apple                  Malus sp.                    "Adams"
Crab apple                  Malus sp.                    "Red baron"
Crab apple                  Malus sp.                    "Sentinal"
Crab apple                  Malus sp.                    "Zumi"
Dawn redwood                Metasequoia glyptostroboides
Ironwood                    Ostraya virginiana
Amur cork tree              Phellodendron amurense
Norway spruce               Picea abies
Colorado blue spruce        Picea pungens
Limber pine                 Pinus flexilus
Eastern white pine          Pinus strobus
Scotch pine                 Pinus sylvestris
Himalayan pine              Pinus wallichiana
Sycamore                    Platanus occidentialis
Sargent cherry              Prunus sargentii
Douglas fir                 Pseudosuga menziesii
Wafer ash                   Pteleas trifoliata
Ussurian pear               Pyrus ussuriensis
Red oak                     Quercus rubra
Bald Cypress                Taxodium disticum
American arborvitae         Thuja occidentalis
Silver linden               Tilia tomentosa
Canad hemlock               Tsuga canadensis
Japanese elm                Ulmus japonica
Lace bark elm               Ulmus parvifolia
Willow
(Plus all trees in table I)
 
   TABLE III
   The trees in table III are not permitted
   to be planted in the village of Wayne.
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name       Scientific Name
Box elder maple   Acer negundo
Tree of heaven    Ailanthus altissima
Russian olive     Elaeagnus augstifolius
Honey locust      Gleditsia triacanthos
Mulberry          Morus species
London plane tree Platanus acerfolia
Black locust      Robinia pseudo-acacia
American elm      Ulmus americana
Siberian elm      Ulmus pumila
Cottonwood
 
(Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-15: TREE PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE SPECIFICATIONS:
Unless required to follow more stringent specifications, applicable forestry
related projects in the village shall be completed in conformance to the
specifications established in the Illinois department of transportation
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", adopted January 1,
1997, the "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items", adopted April
1989, and specifically section 253 thereof, which establishes specifications
for furnishing, transporting and planting woody species, and mulching, bracing,
wrapping, weeding and replacement of plants. (Ord. 04-01, 2-17-2004)
11-9-16: OBSTRUCTIONS AND HAZARDOUS TREES:
   A.   Obstructions: It shall be the duty of any person(s) owning or occupying
real property bordering on any roadway, public access easement and any other
right of way to prune any trees and other vegetation located on said property
in such manner that they will not obstruct or shade the streetlights, obstruct
the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic signs or
obstruct the view of any street or alley intersection. The minimum clearance of
any overhanging portion of trees and other vegetation thereof shall be ten feet
(10') over sidewalks and twelve feet (12') over all roadways, except in the
case of truck thoroughfares, which shall have a clearance of sixteen feet
(16').
   B.   Hazardous Trees: It shall be the duty of any person(s) owning or
occupying real property bordering on any roadway, public access easement or any
other right of way to remove any trees (or portions thereof) located on said
property which, due to storm damage, disease or any other causes, have died or
become diseased, loose, broken, cracked, leaning or otherwise hazardous
(hereinafter "hazardous") because of the increased risk that said trees (or
portions thereof) may fall onto the public ways.
   C.   Notice To Prune Or Remove: Should any person(s) owning real property
bordering on any roadway, public access easement and any other right of way
fail to properly prune trees and other vegetation as hereinabove provided or to
properly remove hazardous trees (or portions thereof) as hereinabove provided,
the tree board (the village president and board of trustees) shall order such
person(s), within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice, to so prune or
remove such trees (or portions thereof) and other vegetation. The notice shall
be by either: 1) certified mail, return receipt requested; 2) first class mail;
or 3) personal service. The person who serves such notice shall complete an
appropriate affidavit of service in the event notice is served by first class
mail or personal service.
   D.   Right To Appeal: Any person receiving a notice as hereinabove provided
shall have the right to appeal. The appeal shall be in the form of a letter to
the tree board and shall outline the specific reasons and justification for the
appeal and shall request a hearing before the tree board. The appeal must be
received within five (5) days of the receipt of said notice. The decision of
the tree board made after hearing the appeal shall be final.
   E.   Failure To Comply; Pruning Or Removal By Village: When a person to whom
a notice to prune or remove is directed shall fail to comply within the
specified time, it shall be lawful for the village to cause such trees or other
vegetation to be pruned or removed at reasonable cost, which shall be
reimbursed by the property owner within thirty (30) days.
   F.   Emergency Pruning Or Removal: The village may provide for the emergency
pruning or removal of trees or other vegetation from property not owned by the
village or dedicated for public use, without prior notice to the owner of such
property, if a certified arborist determines them to pose an immediate hazard
to any roadway, public access easement or other right of way over which the
village has control. The pruning or removal shall be at a reasonable cost,
which shall be reimbursed by the property owner within thirty (30) days.
   G.   Lien:
      1.   All village costs for pruning or removal not reimbursed shall be a
lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all other liens and
encumbrances, except tax liens. Within ninety (90) days after said costs are
incurred, the village shall file a notice of lien in the office of the recorder
of deed of DuPage or Kane County, Illinois, whichever is applicable. Said
notice shall consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the
real estate sufficient for identification thereof; b) the amount of money
representing the cost and expense incurred or payable for the service; c) the
date or dates when said cost or expenses were incurred and payment thereof
became delinquent.
      2.   The failure to record the lien or failure to record within said
ninety (90) day period shall not relieve the owner of the property (as
determined at the time the pruning or removal violation occurred) of the
obligation to reimburse the village in full, and such obligation will continue
in effect until paid.
   H.   Lien Release: Upon payment of the cost and expenses, including the cost
of recording said notice, and, in addition, the payment of a fifteen dollar
($15.00) release fee, by the owner of or persons interested in said lot, piece
or parcel of land, a release of said lien by the village or person in whose
name the lien has been filed shall be delivered to the person so paying the
cost and expenses. (Ord. 04-15, 10-19-2004)
 
 
