VILLAGE OF WELDON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. -, passed 5-1-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title
   
10.02   Acceptance
   
10.03   Amendments
   
10.04   Interpretations
   
10.05   Code alteration
   
10.06   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.07   Public utility ordinances
   
10.08   Court proceedings
   
10.09   Construction of words
   
10.10   Definitions
   
10.11   License
   
10.12   Application
   
10.13   Liability of officers
   
10.14   Ordinances; style of
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE.
   Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this village code is hereby declared
to be and shall hereafter constitute the Official Village Code of the Village
of Weldon. This village code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
municipal code, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of
Trustees and shall be kept up to date as provided in §
10.03 under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for the Board of
Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same number, its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this village code by title
in any legal document.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1)
§ 10.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   This village code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of the state as the ordinances of the village of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in §
10.06.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provision, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-6
§ 10.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Any ordinance amending the village code shall set forth the title, chapter
and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of the village code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the village code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in copy of the village code
within 30 days from the date of its final passage and updated to publicly
available electronic formats within 90 days of its final passage. The village
will retain one official copy that remains secure and one copy available for
public viewing.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-3)
§ 10.04 INTERPRETATIONS.
   In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Intent to defraud. Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provisions of any section
of the village code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting, the
said person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty
set forth.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-4)
§ 10.05 CODE ALTERATION.
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of the village code in such a
manner that the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted.
Replacement pages may be inserted according to the official instructions when
so authorized by the Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement
pages are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of
the Clerk.
   (B)   The code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the village and shall
not leave village hall. Books shall be returned to the office of the Clerk when
directed so to do by order of the Village Board. The code books will also be
available for digital viewing via link at the village website,
www.villageofweldon.org.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.06 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this
village code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as
being still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses), from which are excluded the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alley or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
village; and all special ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
§ 10.07 PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and
other public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of
public utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this village
code or by virtue of §
10.06, excepting as this village code may contain provisions for such matters,
in which case this village code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-2)
§ 10.08 COURT PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceeding thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the village
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this village code.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-3)
§ 10.09 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS.
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this village code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this
village code by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine
gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and
bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of
construction shall not be applied to any section of this village code which
contains any express provisions excluding such construction or where the
subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-1)
§ 10.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. A person acting on behalf of another.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   CODE. The municipal code of the village and amendments thereto.
   COUNTY. The County of DeWitt.
   EMPLOYEES. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Weldon”.
   FEE. A sum of money charged by the village for the carrying on of a
business, profession or occupation.
   FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the village, which shall begin on May 1 each
year.
   KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
   LICENSE. The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   MISDEMEANOR. Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
   NEGLIGENT. A want of such attention to the nature of probable consequences
of the act or omission as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his
or her own concern.
   NUISANCE. Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
   OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE. Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this code.
   OFFICERS. Whenever reference is made in this code to a village officer by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words “of the
Village of Weldon”.
   OPERATOR. The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation in his, her or its own capacity or as administrator, conservator,
executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the court.
      (2)   Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word shall include the partners or members thereof, and such word as applied to
corporations shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who are
responsible for any violation of said section.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
   RETAILER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in
small quantities direct to the consumer.
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public
places and sidewalks.
   TENANT. Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Weldon, County of DeWitt, State of Illinois.
   WHOLESALER and WHOLESALE DEALER. Relates to the sale of goods, merchandise,
articles or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of
resale.
   WILLFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he or she is unable to write,
by his or her proper mark.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-2)
§ 10.11 LICENSE.
   When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this village
code, any license previously issued to him or her by the village may be revoked
by the court or by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
§ 10.12 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this village code the same as though it were a part of each and
every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of
this village code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where
any act which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be
deemed guilty of a petty offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act
continues, unless otherwise specifically provided in this village code.
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this village code, the prosecuting officer
may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
§ 10.13 LIABILITY OF OFFICERS.
   No provision of this village code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES; STYLE OF.
   The style of all ordinances of the village shall be as follows: “Be it
ordained by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Weldon”.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-8)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified, any violation of this code shall be
deemed a petty offense.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a petty offense, the court may sentence the
defendant to:
         (a)   A period of conditional discharge;
         (b)   A fine of up to $500 with a minimum fine of $200;
         (c)   Pay costs of suit; and
         (d)   Make restitution to any victim.
      (3)   The Unified Code of Corrections, 730 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq. as made
applicable by 730 ILCS 5/5-1-15, shall apply to all sentences for the violation
of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Summons. In all actions for the violation of any ordinance of the
village where the fine would not be in excess of $500 and no jail term could be
imposed, service of summons may be made by the Village Clerk by certified mail,
return receipt requested, whether service is to be within or without the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-9)
   (C)   Settlement of penalties.
      (1)   Procedure for settlement of certain offenses. The village of has
determined that certain offenses as listed in division (C)(3) below are
appropriate to have settled by payment in lieu of a court proceeding. Any
offense listed in division (C)(3) below may be settled by payment in the amount
listed therein if not filed directly into court. The village reserves the right
to file a case directly to the appropriate court for an offense in lieu of
settlement.
      (2)   Process of settlement.
         (a)   Any offenses not filed in court as listed in division (C)(3)
below may be settled by paying to the village an amount as listed in division
(C)(3)(a) below within 21 days of date of the offense. Failure to pay the
amount within 21 days shall cause the amount to increase as listed in division
(C)(3) below.
         (b)   Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions
contained in the citation, at the office of the Village Clerk. Any monies
collected shall be promptly remitted to the Village Clerk to be credited to the
proper municipal fund.
      (3)   Payment amounts. Any citation of an offense may be settled,
compromised and paid pursuant to the following:
         (a)   In the event that said payment is made within 21 days of the
date of offense, the fine amount of $200 shall be accepted as settlement;
         (b)   All offenses listed in the village code;
         (c)   In the event a payment has not been paid on or before the
twenty-first day and effective the twenty-second day, the amount shall be
doubled for settlement; and
         (d)   In the event any violation has not been corrected, amended or
removed within 24 hours, another violation notice may be issued for the
continuing violation.
      (4)   Failure to settle; further action. In the event that the person to
whom the violation is issued fails to settle or pay said violation claim within
21 days of the violation, the village official is authorized to cause a notice
to appear to be served upon said individual and is authorized to file a
complaint and to prosecute the same in the appropriate court.
(Ord. 02-04, passed 7-1-2002; Ord. 10-17, passed 11-1-2010)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF TRUSTEES
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Section
   
30.01   Composition
   
30.02   Term; oath; vacancy
   
30.03   Powers of Board
   
30.04   Qualifications of members
   
30.05   Quorum
   
30.06   Meetings
   
30.07   Open doors
   
30.08   Adjourned meetings
   
30.09   Attendance
   
30.10   Voting requirements
   
30.11   Committees
   
30.12   Duties of standing committees
   
30.13   Attaching documents to reports
   
30.14   Rules of proceedings
   
30.15   Rules of order
   
30.16   Address by non-members
   
30.17   Remote attendance at meetings
§ 30.01 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the six Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-1)
§ 30.02 TERM; OATH; VACANCY.
   At the election held pursuant to law for the election of village officers,
there shall be elected six Trustees who shall hold office for a term of four
years and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Each and
every such Trustee, before he or she enters upon the duties of said office,
shall take and subscribe the oath required by law; provided the present
Trustees shall hold their offices for the respective terms for which they have
been respectively elected thereto. In case of any vacancy occurring in the
office of a Trustee, it shall be filled as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2)
§ 30.03 POWERS OF BOARD.
   All powers shall be vested in the Board that are applicable to village
government, which are conferred upon the President and Board of Trustees in
villages, by the laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
§ 30.04 QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   The Board shall be the judge of the qualifications of its own members, and
shall determine its own rules of proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4)
§ 30.05 QUORUM.
   A majority of all the Trustees elected and holding office shall constitute a
quorum.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5)
§ 30.06 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The stated meetings of the Board shall be held in
the village hall on the second Tuesday of each month at 6:30 p.m.; provided
that when said second Tuesday of any month shall fall on a legal holiday, the
Board may meet at the hour above specified on the next business day thereafter.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President or any
two Trustees, whenever, in their discretion, they may deem it necessary, and
shall be called in the following manner only: the President or any two Trustees
shall file in the office of the Village Clerk a written statement setting forth
the object and purpose of such special meeting, and directing the Village Clerk
to give notice thereof.
      (2)   Upon the filing of said statement, the Clerk shall provide notice
via email to each Trustee and the Village President setting forth the object
and purpose thereof and the time and place of holding the same at least 48
hours before the meeting.
      (3)   The meeting agenda will also be posted in at least two public
places within town at least 48 hours before the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 21-04, passed 12-6-2021)
§ 30.07 OPEN DOORS.
   The Board shall hold its meetings in accordance with the Open Meetings Act,
being 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq., but it shall not suffer the presence of disorderly
persons nor the place of meeting to become filled or crowded to such an extent
as to create confusion or inconvenience to the officers or to detract from the
dignity of the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-7)
§ 30.08 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Adjourned meetings may be held, for the purpose of completing the unfinished
business of stated meetings, at such times as may be determined by a majority
of the Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-10)
§ 30.09 ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   In the event that any Village Trustee shall be absent for four
consecutive meetings of the Village Board without just reason, such action on
the part of the Trustee shall be deemed to be an abandonment of office pursuant
to 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(c)(1), as may be amended from time to time. The Village
Board may thereupon make the following determination by written resolution:
      (1)   Whether the Board member was absent for four consecutive meetings;
      (2)   Whether such absences were without just reason;
      (3)   As a result, based on this section, whether the Trustee has
abandoned the office of Trustee; and
      (4)   As a result of the foregoing, whether a vacancy exists.
   (B)   Upon the determination that the office has been abandoned and a
vacancy exists, all village property in the possession of the Trustee in
question shall be returned to the village no later than the next Village Board
meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-11) (Ord. 10-12, passed 8-2-2010)
§ 30.10 VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every Trustee shall vote upon all questions, in which he or she is not
personally interested, which may be brought before the Board for its
consideration in such manner as to require a vote to be taken thereon, unless
such Trustee is excused by a vote of two-thirds of all the members present. In
case any Trustee shall refuse to vote without such excuse, he or she shall be
considered as having voted in the negative upon such question and his or her
vote shall be so recorded.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-12)
§ 30.11 COMMITTEES.
   It shall be the duty of the President, at the first stated meeting thereof
in May of each year, or as soon thereafter as may be practicable, to appoint
five standing committees, each of which shall consist of not less than three
Trustees, which committees shall be as follows: Committee on Finance; Committee
on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks; Committee on Ordinances; Committee on Water;
and Committee on Drainage.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-13)
§ 30.12 DUTIES OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committee on Finance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Committee on Finance to take into
consideration all such reports and propositions relating to the village
treasury that may be referred to it by the Board, to diligently investigate and
inquire into the state of the village funds, its debt, revenues and
disbursements.
      (2)   It shall report such provisions and arrangements as may be
necessary, touching the village finances and the appropriations of moneys as
will conduce to the economy of the several financial departments of the
village, and secure the accountability and faithfulness of the different
officers concerned therein.
   (B)   Committee on Street, Alleys and Sidewalks. It shall be the duty of the
Committee on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks to take into consideration all
matters referred to it by the Board relating to the streets, alleys, highways
and sidewalks of the village and to report thereon to said Board; to examine
the several streets, roads, alleys, sidewalks and crossings of the village and
to report to said Board the condition and recommend such changes, alterations
or improvements that may be required in any of them.
   (C)   Committee on Ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Committee on
Ordinances to consider all matters delegated to them by the Board and to report
thereon to said Board. It shall examine all ordinances ordered to be engrossed
or enrolled, correct all clerical or orthographical, grammatical or other
errors, and arrange the punctuation before they are returned to said Board.
   (D)   Committee on Water. The duties of the Committee on Water shall be
established as set forth by the President and Village Board.
   (E)   Committee on Drainage. The duties of the Committee on Drainage shall
be established as set forth by the President and Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-14)
§ 30.13 ATTACHING DOCUMENTS TO REPORTS.
   Every committee of the Board, when reporting on any subject referred to it,
shall attach to such report all papers or documents in its possession, which in
any manner relates to the manner on which such report is made.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-15)
§ 30.14 RULES OF PROCEEDINGS.
   The most recent version of Robert’s Rules of Order shall be and hereby are
adopted for the rules of proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-16)
§ 30.15 RULES OF ORDER.
   Rules of the order of business for the Board of Trustee meetings shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Guest and visitors;
   (D)   Consent agenda;
   (E)   Reports;
   (F)   Old business;
   (G)   New business;
   (H)   Closed session; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-17)
§ 30.16 ADDRESS BY NON-MEMBERS.
   (A)   Public comment request. Any person not a member of the Village Board
may address the Village Board with regard to items of proposed business under
the following rules.
      (1)   He or she shall rise (if not physically impaired) and state his or
her name for the record and unless further time is granted by the Board to
limit remarks to five minutes. If multiple individuals wish to address the
Board on the same subject, the group is encouraged to appoint a spokesperson.
The Village Board allows for a maximum of 15 minutes for address by non members
and may extend that time by majority vote of the trustees. All remarks shall be
addressed to the Village Board, not to any member thereof.
      (2)   No person other than the Board member recognizing the individual
addressing the Board and the person having the floor shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion directly or through a member of the Board without the
permission of the President. Any person making personal or impertinent remarks
who shall become disruptive addressing the Village Board shall be forthwith
evicted from the Board room by the President.
   (B)   Auxiliary aid or service. The village shall take appropriate steps to
ensure that communications with applicants, participants, members of the public
and companions with disabilities are as effective as communications with
others.
      (1)   The village shall furnish appropriate auxiliary aid(s) and services
(s) where necessary to afford qualified individuals with disabilities including
applicants, participants, companions and members of the public, and equal
opportunity to participate in, and enjoy the benefits of a service, program or
activity of the village.
      (2)   Auxiliary aids and services shall be provided in a timely manner.
      (3)   Individuals shall notify the Village Clerk 14 days in advance
specifying the appropriate auxiliary aids or services required.
   (C)   County Sheriff. The County Sheriff or his or her authorized designee
shall be the sergeant at arms at the Board meetings. He or she shall carry out
all orders and instructions of the President for the purposes of maintaining
order and decorum. The sergeant at arms shall remove any person violating order
and decorum of the meeting. Such removal may be accompanied by further
prosecution for any violation of any ordinance under this code.
(Ord. 2022-02, passed 9-13-2022)
§ 30.17 REMOTE ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS.
   (A)   Rules statement. Any member of the Village Board may attend any open
or closed meeting of the Village Board via electronic means (such as by
telephone, video or internet connection); provided that such attendance is not
otherwise prohibited and is in compliance with these rules and any applicable
laws.
   (B)   Prerequisites. A member of the village may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions.
      (1)   The member must notify the Clerk at least 24 hours before the
meeting unless impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can be
arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result in
denial of a request for remote attendance.
      (2)   The member must assert one of the following three reasons why he or
she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         (a)   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability;
         (b)   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the village; or
         (c)   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   (C)   Authorization to participate. The Clerk after receiving the electronic
attendance request, shall inform the village of the request for electronic
attendance. After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the village desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that a notice was received by a member of the
village in accordance with these rules; and the member will be deemed
authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to
the member’s electronic attendance is made, seconded and approved by two-thirds
of the members of the village physically present at the meeting. If no such
motion is made and seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve the required
vote by the members of the village physically present at the meeting, then the
request by the member to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed
approved by the village and the presiding officer shall declare the requesting
member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer, the question
of a member’s electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
   (D)   Adequate equipment required. The member participating electronically
and other members of the village must be able to communicate effectively and
members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the meeting
site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the village shall
provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
   (E)   Minutes. Any member attending electronically shall be considered an
off-site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
   (F)   Rights of remote member. A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard considered and counted as to
any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member; provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
   (G)   Committees board and commissions. These rules shall apply to all
committees board and commissions established by authority of the village.
   (H)   Participation while driving prohibited. Members permitted to attend a
meeting electronically may not participate while driving unless said members
are in compliance with all state driving laws regarding cell phone use.
   (I)   Limited participation rights. Nothing herein shall prohibit an
official who does not meet the prerequisites of division (B) above from
participating in the meeting remotely without voting rights, if the audio or
video equipment is available and a majority of those present do not vote
against the participation. Costs in such circumstances shall not be
reimbursable.
(Ord. 2019-03, passed 9-9-2019)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Generally
   
31.001   Maintenance and Water Superintendent
   
31.002   Reimbursement of expenses
   
31.003   Illinois Plan for Radiological Accidents training
   
31.004   Paid leave
   
31.005   State Officials and Employee Ethics Act
   
31.006   State Gift Ban Act
Village President
   
31.020   Qualifications; term
   
31.021   Vacancy
   
31.022   Village President Pro Tem
   
31.023   Vacancy by removal
   
31.024   Oath; bond
   
31.025   Supervision of officers
   
31.026   Approve ordinances; veto
   
31.027   Sign commissions; contracts
   
31.028   Purchasing and contracting agent
Village Clerk
   
31.040   Oath; bond
   
31.041   Office; hours
   
31.042   Attend Board meetings; custodian of seal
   
31.043   Keep account of revenue
   
31.044   Publication of ordinances; memorandum
   
31.045   Monthly report; annual report
   
31.046   Audit all accounts
   
31.047   Warrants; keep list and form
   
31.048   Monthly reports; may require
   
31.049   Turn records and the like over to successor
   
31.050   Purchasing and contracting agent for routine operational expenditures
   
31.051   Appointed
Village Treasurer
   
31.065   Oath; bond
   
31.066   Duties
   
31.067   Separate accounts of funds
   
31.068   Monthly statements of reports
   
31.069   Moneys paid to Village Treasurer
   
31.070   Manner of collecting taxes
   
31.071   Annual statement; publication
   
31.072   Appointment
Officers; Employees
   
31.085   Salaries
GENERALLY
§ 31.001 MAINTENANCE AND WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Maintenance and Water Superintendent shall be the purchasing agent
for routine operational expenditures for the village as approved in the annual
budget. All capital purchases made by the Village Maintenance and Water
Superintendent requiring the expenditure of money in the amount of $1,500 or
more shall be approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The Water Superintendent shall have authority to make emergency
purchases of parts and materials and to contract for labor necessary for the
repair and maintenance of all mechanical systems and equipment, up to an amount
not to exceed $1,500, within the village’s approved budget, without first
obtaining approval of the Village President. In the event of absence of the
Village President, three Board members are required to approve.
   (C)   The Maintenance and Water Superintendent may recommend to the Board of
Trustees approval of a contract involving the procurement of goods, services or
equipment/construction items where a procurement unit of a public entity has
established such a contract through a process that substantially meets the
requirements of state law. Any such agreement is not binding on the village
until the matter has been submitted to and formally approved by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 31.002 REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Shows, amusements, theaters, circuses, sporting events or
any other place of public or private entertainment or amusement, unless
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   Official business for which expenses may be reimbursed.
      (1)   An official of the village shall be entitled to reimbursement for
travel, including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
         (a)   Education conferences related to the duties of the officer of
the village; and
         (b)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the village.
      (2)   An employee shall be entitled to reimbursement for travel,
including meals or lodging, related to the following types of official
business:
         (a)   Education conferences related to the duties of the employee of
the village; and
         (b)   Site visits to current or potential vendors of the village.
   (C)   Maximum allowable reimbursement for expenses. Unless otherwise
excepted in this section, the maximum allowable reimbursement for an employee
or officer of the village shall be those rates set by the reimbursement
schedule of the Governor’s Travel Control Board in effect at the time the
expense was incurred.
   (D)   Approval of expenses. The Board of Trustees must approve the following
reimbursements for travel, including meals or lodging, by a roll call vote at
an open meeting of the Board of Trustees:
      (1)   Any expense of any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum
permitted in division (C) above; or
      (2)   Any expense of any member of the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Documentation of expenses.
      (1)   Before any reimbursement for travel, including meals or lodging,
may be approved pursuant to division (D) above, a standardized form for
submission of travel, meal and lodging expenses supported by the following
minimum documentation shall first be submitted to the Board of Trustees:
         (a)   An estimate of the cost of travel, meals or lodging if expenses
have not been incurred or a receipt of the cost of the travel, meals or lodging
if the expenses have already been incurred;
         (b)   The name of the individual who received or is requesting the
travel, meal or lodging expense;
         (c)   The job title or office of the individual who received or is
requesting the travel, meal or lodging expense; and
         (d)   The date or dates and nature of the official business in which
the travel, meal or lodging expense was or will be expended.
      (2)   All documents and information submitted under this section are
public records subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, 5
ILCS 140/1.
   (F)   Entertainment expenses. No employee or officer of village shall be
reimbursed by village for any entertainment expense.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-6-2017)
§ 31.003 ILLINOIS PLAN FOR RADIOLOGICAL ACCIDENTS TRAINING.
   The compensation schedule for participating in the Illinois Plan for
Radiological Accidents (IPRA) and all other emergency training is as follows.
   (A)   Employees participating in planning, training or exercising during
normal working hours, the village shall obtain the person’s hourly rate
including fringe benefits. IPRA pays to the village in compensation for the
time the employee spent on IPRA activities.
   (B)   Village employees participating in training after normal working hours
will be compensated at the rate of 150% of the employee’s hourly salary if
applicable.
   (C)   The Village President, Trustees and/or Village Clerk participating in
IPRA activities:
      (1)   To attend training provided in the village hall, the compensation
rate will be that of the greater of the federal minimum wage for the Village
President and Trustees, or, for the Village Clerk, 150% of his or her hourly
salary;
      (2)   To attend a planning meeting (audit) in the village and perform
grant duties and responsibilities, the compensation rate of the greater of the
federal minimum wage for the Village President and Trustees, or, for the
Village Clerk, 150% of his or her hourly salary;
      (3)   To attend training or the exercise at the Clinton County EOC, the
compensation rate will be $75 per day plus mileage; and
      (4)   To attend a planning meeting at the county, the compensation rate
will be $45 per day plus mileage.
   (D)   Volunteers participating in IPRA exercises or drills: if a volunteer
(s) would lose a portion or all of a days’ wage from their employer,
compensation from grant funds will be make to the individual. A recent pay stub
from the employer documenting the hourly rate plus fringe benefits will be
required. Lost overtime will not be reimbursed. Otherwise, compensation will be
$75 per day plus mileage.
   (E)   Volunteers attending IPRA related training shall receive a flat rate
matching the current federal minimum wage.
(Res. passed 12-6-2010)
§ 31.004 PAID LEAVE.
   The village hereby adopts its current paid leave policy for all village
employees, any collective bargaining agreements to which the village is a party
and all other binding legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the
Village President and Board of Trustees, as the same may be amended from time
to time. However, in no event shall the village, as an employer, provide less
than one day of paid leave per year to any village employee.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 31.005 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEE ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of 5 ILCS 430/5-15 and 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 430/
10-40 of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.,
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and
employees of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted by any officer or any employee of the village is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited by any officer or
employee of the village is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall be defined as
set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to this section that becomes effective after the
effective date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by
reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and
making of gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment
that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (I)   If the State Supreme Court declares this section unconstitutional in
its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the State
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if this section is found
unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the State Supreme Court declares part of this section
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder, or does
not address the remainder of this section, then as adopted shall remain in full
force and effect; however, that part of this section relating to the part found
unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 2004-05, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 31.006 STATE GIFT BAN ACT.
   (A)   Adoption.
      (1)   The State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.) is hereby adopted
as required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
      (2)   The solicitations or the acceptance of gifts prohibited to be
solicited or accepted under the Act is prohibited by any elected or appointed
official or any employee of the village.
   (B)   Ethics Officer. To the extent authorized by law and to the extent
required by the complied statutes, the President of the Board of Trustees is
appointed to serve as the Ethics Officer. The Ethics Officer’s duties shall be
as provided in the complied statutes.
   (C)   Local Ethics Commission; complaints.
      (1)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by the
Act, the President shall appoint two persons to a Local Ethics Commission with
the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Local Ethics Commission shall have the power and duties set
forth in the complied statutes.
      (3)   To the extent that any of its provisions may be applicable, the
complied statutes shall be applicable to the Local Ethics Commission.
      (4)   The complaint procedure and the enforcement and penalty provisions
of the Act and this section shall be as are provided in the complied statutes.
   (D)   Existing ethics ordinance or gift ban ordinance.
      (1)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend any other provision
of the code, which regulates the conduct of the village officials and
employees.
      (2)   To the extent that such ordinances are less restrictive than the
State Gift Ban Act and this section, then the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provision of 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (E)   Future amendments to State Gift Ban Act.
      (1)   Any amendment to the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that
becomes effective after the passage of this section shall be incorporated into
this section by reference and shall be applicable to the solicitation and
acceptance of gifts.
      (2)   However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for
adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   (F)   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act. If
the State Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.)
unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the
date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any
further appeals or rehearings. The ordinance shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the village if the Act is found
unconstitutional by the State Supreme Court. If the State Supreme Court
declares part of the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.)
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
(Ord. 99-, passed 12- -1999)
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
§ 31.020 QUALIFICATIONS; TERM.
   The Village President shall be the chief executive officer of the village
and shall be a citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, shall have
resided within the limits of the village at least one year next preceding the
election and hold his or her office for four years and until his or her
successor is elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 31.021 VACANCY.
   Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the office of the President, the Board of
Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as Village President, who shall
possess all the rights and powers of the Village President until the next
election as prescribed by law and until his or her successor is elected and
qualified.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2)
§ 31.022 VILLAGE PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   In case of the temporary absence or disability of the Village President, the
Board of Trustees shall elect one of its number to act as Village President Pro
Tem who, during such absence or disability, shall possess the powers of the
Village President.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 31.023 VACANCY BY REMOVAL.
   Should the Village President at any time during his or her term of office
remove from the limits of the village, his or her office shall thereby become
vacant.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 31.024 OATH; BOND.
   The Village President, before entering upon the duties of his or her office,
shall take and subscribe the oath required by law for other like officers, and
shall execute a bond payable to the village in the penal sum of $50,000, with
sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of the duties of his or her office. The village shall be responsible
for any expense related to the bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5)
§ 31.025 SUPERVISION OF OFFICERS.
   The Village President shall supervise the conduct of all the village
officers and see that they properly discharge the duties of their respective
offices; he or she shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made against
them, and cause their neglect of duty to be promptly corrected; he or she
shall, in case he or she is convinced that any officer willfully neglects his
or her duty, cause such officer to be prosecuted and punished; and he or she
shall from time to time give the Board of Trustees such information and
recommendation as may seem best for the interest of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6)
§ 31.026 APPROVE ORDINANCES; VETO.
   The Village President shall carefully examine all ordinances passed by the
Board of Trustees, and to such as he or she may approve, he or she shall affix
his or her official signature and return to the Village Clerk within ten days
after their passage. All ordinances which do not meet his or her approval shall
be returned to the Board with his or her written objections thereto, at its
next regular meeting occurring after the passage thereof. Such veto may include
any one or more items or appropriations contained in any ordinance or it may
include the whole of any such ordinance. In case the veto extends to or
includes a part of such ordinance, the residue shall take effect and be in
force, but should the Village President fail to return any ordinance with his
or her objections thereto in writing by the time above specified, he or she
shall be deemed to have approved such ordinance and the same shall take effect
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7)
§ 31.027 SIGN COMMISSIONS; CONTRACTS.
   The Village President shall affix his or her official signature to all
commissions, permits, warrants and other official documents which, by law or
ordinance, he or she is required to sign, when granted, issued or drawn by the
order of the Board of Trustees or authorized by the ordinances of the village.
In all contracts where the village is a party thereto, he or she shall sign the
same on behalf of the village, and it shall be his or her duty to see that the
other party to such contract shall faithfully comply with the provisions of
such contract; and in all suits where the village is a party, it shall be his
or her duty to advise with and assist the attorney having the case in charge,
in prosecuting or defending the same as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-8)
§ 31.028 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING AGENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Village President shall be the purchasing and contracting
agent of the village. All purchases and contracts made by the Village President
requiring the expenditure of money in the amount of $2,500 or more shall be
approved by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   In the capacity of purchasing agent, the Village President shall
conduct all sales of personal property which the Board may authorize to be sold
and which have become unnecessary or unfit for the village’s use. All sales are
subject to approval by the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   (a)   As contracting agent, the President is authorized, to the
extent of $2,500, to execute in the name of and on behalf of the village all
contracts for the purchase and sale of personal property and services of every
kind and description, and contracts for construction.
         (b)   If sales or purchases or other contracts involve amounts in
excess of $2,500, opportunity for competitive bids shall be given after
reasonable advertisement thereof, and in the case of contracts for public work,
the requirements of this division (A) shall be complied with; provided,
however, that the requirements contained herein respecting competitive bids
after reasonable advertisement shall not apply in cases of contracts for
professional services such as consultants, architects, engineers, accountants,
attorneys and other professional advisors, and no advertisement or solicitation
for competitive bids or proposals shall be necessary in such cases.
         (c)   Prior to execution of any such contract, same shall be reviewed
by the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Contracts involving the purchase or sale of personal property or
services or construction involving a maximum of $2,500 may be executed by the
Village President without the prior approval of the Board of Trustees for
emergency maintenance or repairs.
      (5)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to affix the
seal of the village to any contract executed in the name of the village by the
Village President.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, and the provisions of
division (A) above, the Village President shall have the authority to make and
execute all contracts, franchises and leases in connection with the operation
of village resources. The Village President may delegate all or any portion of
her authority in this connection, but shall remain responsible for the proper
use of such authority.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, and the provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) above, the Village President shall have authority to make
emergency purchases of parts and materials and to contract for labor necessary
for the repair and maintenance of all mechanical systems and equipment, up to
an amount not to exceed $2,500, without first obtaining approval of the Board
of Trustees and without advertising and obtaining competitive bids.
   (D)   (1)   The Village President may recommend to the Board of Trustees
approval of a contract involving the procurement of goods, services or
equipment/construction items where a procurement unit of a public entity has
established such a contract through a process that substantially meets the
requirements of state law.
      (2)   Any such agreement is not binding on the village until the matter
has been submitted to and formally approved by the Village President and Board
of Trustees.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the Village President
shall have authority to make purchases, and to contract for labor, up to an
amount not to exceed $2,500, without first obtaining approval of the Village
Board.
(Ord. 17-11, passed 9-5-2017)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.040 OATH; BOND.
   The Village Clerk, before entering upon the duties of his or her office
shall take and subscribe the oath prescribed for other village officers and
shall execute a bond to the village in the penal sum of $50,000, with good and
sufficient sureties to be approved by the Board, conditioned for the faithful
discharge of the duties of his or her office and the payment of all moneys
belonging to the village, that may be received by him or her according to law
and the ordinances of the village, which bond shall be filed with the Village
Clerk. The village shall be responsible for any expense related to the bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-1)
§ 31.041 OFFICE; HOURS.
   The Village Clerk does not maintain office hours at village hall on a
regular basis. The Village Clerk is expected to provide a phone number and
email where they can be reached for village business. The expectation is a
response within two business days.
§ 31.042 ATTEND BOARD MEETINGS; CUSTODIAN OF SEAL.
   The Village Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board and shall keep a
faithful record of all the proceedings of the Board and shall keep the
corporate seal of the village and use it when necessary, when applied to for
that purpose. He or she shall notify all committees appointed by the Board of
their appointment and of the business referred to them. He or she shall perform
all other duties which, by usage and custom devolve upon clerks and secretaries
of incorporated bodies; and to facilitate the discharge of his or her duties he
or she may, and is hereby authorized to procure for said village such blank
forms as shall be necessary for all the purposes of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-3)
§ 31.043 KEEP ACCOUNT OF REVENUE.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a regular account of all debits and credits
made by the village. Tracking of money received and expensed will be reported
to the Board each month. Expenses will include an invoice or copy of a receipt
and will be presented to the Board in advance of expending that include payee,
amount and what account/fund the expense is drawn on.
§ 31.044 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES; MEMORANDUM.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall cause all ordinances passed and approved by
the Village President and Board which are required by law to be published
immediately, and when such publication is made by being printed in a newspaper,
he or she shall cause to be attached at the bottom thereof the certificate of
the publisher and shall, before any ordinance is submitted to be published and
after it is passed and approved make a memorandum of the date of its passage
and approval.
   (B)   He or she shall, when any such ordinance is transcribed into the
ordinance record, make such memorandum at the foot thereof giving the date of
passage, when approved and when published; and it is hereby provided that any
ordinance published by being printed as aforesaid in a newspaper (which
newspaper must be printed in the village or in the county) may, by the Village
Clerk be clipped from said newspaper and pasted in said ordinance record, and
the same shall be lawful as though transcribed therein.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-5)
§ 31.045 MONTHLY REPORT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall make and submit to the Board at each stated
monthly meeting thereof, a report, which shall give the exact condition of each
appropriation and or each separate fund, the total amount that has been used or
expended thereof, and the balance, if any, subject to be drawn upon, and
whenever any appropriation or fund is exhausted, he or she shall at once notify
the said Board thereof and shall thereafter make no warrant against such
appropriation or fund until the same shall have been renewed.
   (B)   He or she shall also show in such report the amount of moneys received
during the month, from whom received and on what account, the amount of
disbursements during the month, to whom paid and on what account.
   (C)   He or she shall annually, upon the filing in his or her office of the
annual report of the Village Treasurer, make and submit a counter financial
report, together with the annual report of the Village Treasurer aforesaid, to
the Village President and Finance Committee of the Board.
   (D)   If the Village President and said Committee shall be satisfied that
the said Village Treasurer’s report properly exhibits the true financial
condition of the village, they shall return the same to the Village Clerk, who
shall cause such report of the Village Treasurer to be published in three
public places of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-6)
§ 31.046 AUDIT ALL ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall provide access to all bank statements, check
registers, invoices and any other documents requested to complete an
independent audit by a qualified CPA.
   (B)   The audit is to be completed within six months of the end of the
fiscal year and filed with the Count Clerk.
§ 31.047 WARRANTS; KEEP LIST AND FORM.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall keep a correct list of all monies drawn on the
village treasury, showing the date of issue, the check number (if applicable),
the amount, in whose favor drawn, and what account and on what fund. Copies of
all invoices and receipts will be maintained by the village.
   (B)   (1)   Electronic copies are acceptable as long as a reasonable backup
methodology is also adopted. Invoices and expenditures, other than standard
payroll, must be approved by the Board of Trustees before payment is released.
      (2)   Other exceptions would include standard monthly expenses, such as
power, water and other bills within the approval limit of the Village Clerk or
Village President to avoid being past due or in the event a regular monthly
meeting is delayed.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-9)
§ 31.048 MONTHLY REPORTS; MAY REQUIRE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall require all officers, charged in any manner
with the receipt, collection or disbursement of the village revenues, to submit
monthly reports in writing, showing in detail all such receipts, collections or
disbursements, and to file the same in his or her office.
   (B)   (1)   If any such officer shall neglect or refuse to make any such
reports or to adjust his or her accounts, whenever so requested by said Village
Clerk, and to pay over to the proper officer any moneys in his or her
possession belonging to the village, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk
to cause a written notice to be served upon such officer and his or her
sureties, demanding a settlement of his or her accounts with said village
forthwith; and in case of neglect or refusal of such officer to comply with
such notice and pay over said moneys within ten days after such notice shall
have been served, the Village Clerk shall report such officer to the Village
President for his or her action thereon.
      (2)   Proceedings shall at once be instituted against such delinquent
officer and his or her sureties for the recovery of any moneys due from him or
her to said village.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-10)
§ 31.049 TURN RECORDS AND THE LIKE OVER TO SUCCESSOR.
   The Village Clerk shall, upon the expiration of his or her term of office in
any manner, upon demand, deliver all such books, records, documents and effects
pertaining to his or her office to his or her successor in office.
(Prior Code, § 1-7-11)
§ 31.050 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTING AGENT FOR ROUTINE OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall be the purchasing agent for routine
operational expenditures for the village as approved in the annual budget.
   (B)   All capital purchases made by the Village Clerk requiring the
expenditure of money in the amount of $1,500 or more shall be approved by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 17-09, passed 9-5-2017)
§ 31.051 APPOINTED.
   (A)   The office of the Village Treasurer is hereby discontinued.
   (B)   The duties of the Village Treasurer shall devolve on the Village
Clerk.
(Res. 12-00, passed 2-6-2012; Ord. 13-02, passed 5-6-2013)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.065 OATH; BOND.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall, before he or she enters upon the duties
of his or her office, take and subscribe the oath prescribed by law for other
village officers, and he or she shall execute a bond to the village in the
penal sum of $50,000, with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the
Board, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her
office and the payment of all moneys of the village received by him or her,
according to law and the ordinances of the village.
   (B)   The village shall be responsible for any expense related to the bond.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25 and 3.1-10-30
§ 31.066 DUTIES.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the village, and
shall keep his or her books and accounts in such manner as may be prescribed by
ordinance, and such books and accounts shall always be subject to the
inspection of any member of the Board or the Finance Committee.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2)
§ 31.067 SEPARATE ACCOUNTS OF FUNDS.
   The Village Treasurer shall keep separate and distinct account of each fund
or appropriation and the debits and credits belonging thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3)
Cross-reference:
   Funds; distribution, see
Chapter 34
§ 31.068 MONTHLY STATEMENTS OF REPORTS.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and
more often if so required, render a statement to the Board, or such village
officer as may be designated by ordinance, under oath, showing the state of the
Treasury at the date of such statement, and the balance of money in the
treasury at such time.
   (B)   He or she shall accompany such statement with a report of all moneys
received into said treasury, and on what account, together with all invoices
redeemed and paid by him or her, which invoices, with any and all vouchers held
by him or her, shall be delivered to the Village Clerk and filed with said
account in the Village Clerk’s office upon every day of such rendering of such
statement. He or she shall return all invoices paid and redeemed by him or her
stamped or marked with the work “paid”. He or she shall keep a register of all
invoices redeemed or paid which shall describe such invoices and show the date,
amount, number, to whom paid, on what account, date when paid and from what
fund paid.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
§ 31.069 MONEYS PAID TO VILLAGE TREASURER.
   All fines and forfeitures for the violation of the ordinances of the village
when collected, and all moneys collected for licenses or otherwise, shall be
paid into the village treasury on or before the next regular meeting of the
Board following their collection.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
§ 31.070 MANNER OF COLLECTING TAXES.
   All general taxes shall be enforced and collected in the same manner and by
the same officers as state and county taxes, and shall be paid over by such
officer so collecting them to the Village Treasurer, taking his or her receipt
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-7)
§ 31.071 ANNUAL STATEMENT; PUBLICATION.
   The Village Treasurer shall annually, between April 1 and 10 of each year,
make and file with the Village Clerk, under oath, a full and detailed account
of all receipts and expenditures of the village as shown by his or her book up
to the time of such report, and of all transactions as such Village Treasurer
during the preceding fiscal year, and shall show in such account the state of
the treasury at the close of the fiscal year. The Village Clerk shall cause the
same to be published as required by law and shall also immediately make out his
or her counter report, which together with that of said Village Treasurer, he
or she shall submit to the Finance Committee for comparison and examination.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-8)
§ 31.072 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the Village President and Board
at the first regular meeting of each fiscal year, or as soon thereafter as may
be.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-9)
OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES
§ 31.085 SALARIES.
   The compensation paid the elected officials shall be set as provided by law.
The compensation paid to the appointed officials of the village and of the
various employees thereof shall be as set from time to time by the Village
President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Functions
   
32.04   Service as mobile support team
   
32.05   Agreements with other political subdivisions
   
32.06   Emergency action
   
32.07   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.08   Local disaster declarations
   
32.09   Oath
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
(ESDA) to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting
from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with the Illinois Emergency
Management Act of 1992 (P.A. 87-168, effective January 1, 1992), being 20 ILCS
3305/1 et seq.
   (B)   This ESDA shall consist of the coordinator and the coordinator may
appoint as many additional members as the Village President and the Village
Board may determine as necessary.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The person appointed by the Village President, with the advice
and consent of the Village Board, with the duty of coordinating the emergency
management programs of the village. The COORDINATOR shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, training and operation of
the ESDA, subject to the direction and control of the Village President as
provided by statute.
   DISASTER. An occurrence of threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from any natural or technological cause,
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, hazardous
materials spill or other water contamination requiring emergency action to
avert danger or damage, epidemic, air contamination, blight, extended periods
of severe and inclement weather, drought, infestation, critical shortages of
essential fuels and energy, explosion, riot or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE. A planned event designed specifically to
simulate an actual disaster that will provide emergency operations training for
emergency response personnel. Actual response by ESDA volunteers to local
emergency situations not qualifying as disasters, as defined in this section,
is considered a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE; provided, however, that performance
of the usual and customary emergency functions of the village is not included
within this definition of a DISASTER TRAINING EXERCISE.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The efforts of the village to develop, plan, analyze,
conduct, implement and maintain programs for disaster mitigation, preparedness,
response and recovery.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The written plan of the state, county and
political subdivisions describing the organization, mission and functions of
the government and supporting services for responding to and recovering from
disasters.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. The coordination of functions by the state, county and
its political subdivisions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, as may be necessary or proper to prevent, minimize,
repair and alleviate injury and damage resulting from any natural or
technological causes. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting
services, police services, emergency aviation services, medical and health
services, rescue, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological,
chemical and other special weapons defense, evacuation of persons from stricken
or threatened areas, emergency assigned functions of plant protection,
temporary restoration of public utility services and other function related to
civilian protection, together with all other activities necessary or incidental
to protecting life or property.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY. The agency established by ordinance
within a political subdivision and with private organizations, other political
subdivisions, the county, state and federal governments.
   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
      (1)   President of the village, or in the absence or disability, the
interim successor as established by local ordinance.
      (2)   The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training and operation of the ESDA, subject to
the direction and control of the Village President as provided by statute.
      (3)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to
serve as the coordinator, the Village President or any person designated by him
or her, shall be and act as coordinator until a new appointment is made as
provided in this section.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions with the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the State Emergency Management Agency plan and program
prepared by the Governor, and such orders, rules and regulations as may be
promulgated by the Governor, and in addition shall perform such duties outside
the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to the mutual aid agreement
with any other political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality
entered into as provided in the Illinois Emergency Management Act of 1992,
being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.04 SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any members of the ESDA organization may be designated as
members of a mobile support team created by the Director of State Emergency
Management Agency as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the ESDA
Coordinator.
   (C)   (1)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and the powers, duties, rights and immunities
incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   All personnel of mobile support teams who suffer disease, injury or
death arising out of or in the course of emergency duty, shall for the purposes
of benefits under the Workers’ Compensation Act, being 820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.,
or Workers’ Occupational Diseases Act, being 820 ILCS 310/1 et seq., only, be
deemed to be employees of this state.
      (3)   If the person diseased, injured or killed is an employee of the
political subdivision, the computation of benefits payable under either of
those Acts shall be based on income commensurate with comparable state
employees doing the same type of work or income from person’s regular
employment, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.05 AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The ESDA Coordinator may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other cities
or political subdivisions of the state and county, but no such agreement shall
be effective until it has been approved by the Village President and Village
Board.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster/emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence with the state of
a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or from
human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of ESDA to cooperate fully
with the State EMA and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as
provided by law.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.07 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Village Board may, on recommendation of the ESDA Coordinator,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from human-made or natural disasters.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or other disaster, the ESDA Coordinator
is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as authorized
by the Illinois Emergency Management Act of 1992, being 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq;
provided that if the Village President meets at such time, he or she shall act
subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.08 LOCAL DISASTER DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   A local disaster may be declared only by the principal executive
officer, or his or her interim emergency successor, as provided in §
32.07. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven
days except by or with the consent of the Village Board. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing or terminating a local disaster shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   The effect of a declaration of a local disaster is to activate the
emergency operations plan of that political subdivision and to authorize the
furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 32.09 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the ESDA organization
shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe to the following oath,
which shall be filed with the ESDA Coordinator:
   “I, __________________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the Weldon ESDA organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the government of the United States or of this
State by force or violence”.
(Ord. 01-04, passed 10-1-2001)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Rental rates for use of village hall
   
33.002   Banking transactions
   
33.003   Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
Municipal Occupation Tax
   
33.015   Tax imposed
   
33.016   Filing date
   
33.017   Payment
Municipal Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax
   
33.030   Tax imposed; rate
   
33.031   Collection of tax by retailers
Electricity Tax
   
33.045   Tax imposed
   
33.046   Exceptions
   
33.047   Additional taxes
   
33.048   Collection
   
33.049   Reports to village
   
33.050   Credit for overpayment
Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
   
33.065   Definitions
   
33.066   Tax imposed
   
33.067   Collection of tax by retailers
   
33.068   Returns to State Department of Revenue
   
33.069   Resellers
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 RENTAL RATES FOR USE OF VILLAGE HALL.
   (A)   The cost of renting the village hall shall be $100 per day. The
individual renting shall pay an additional $150 damage deposit at least seven
days in advance. The damage deposit shall be refunded by check once a village
official or employee has verified damage has not occurred.
   (B)   No animals shall be allowed in the village hall, with the exception of
service animals. When it is not obvious what service an animal provides, only
limited inquiries are allowed. Village staff may ask two questions: “Is the dog
a service animal required because of a disability?”; and “What work or task has
the dog been trained to perform?”.
   (C)   The individual will be required to complete an agreement as approved
by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2017-, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 33.002 BANKING TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   The First National Bank and Trust Company in Clinton, Illinois is
hereby designated as the village’s primary financial institution to provide
banking and other related financial services.
   (B)   The First Mid Bank and Trust situated in Mattoon, Illinois is also an
authorized depository institution for the village.
   (C)   The U.S. Bank (Illinois Funds) of Springfield, Illinois is also an
authorized depository institution for the village.
   (D)   The Village President, jointly with the Village Clerk, is authorized
to enter into banking agreements and to provide and execute any documents
deemed necessary, including bank to bank transfers via check, to enter into a
banking services relationship. All approved institutions meet all the
requirements of the State Banking Act.
   (E)   The persons holding the Office of Clerk, Village President and a
Village Trustee approved by the Board of Trustees are to be signers on
municipal accounts. Individuals are authorized to execute checks, transfers,
electronic transactions and deposit items on behalf of the village.
Identification and approval of the signors shall occur in the minutes when any
of the three approved change.
   (F)   The Water Clerk be authorized to make deposits and discuss activity in
the operations and maintenance account(s). The Water Clerk is not authorized to
execute checks or transfers.
   (G)   The Maintenance and Water Superintendent employee, currently Eric
Followell, and Village Clerk be issued a debit card drawing on the Petty Cash
account.
§ 33.003 ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND.
   (A)   The village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois Municipal
Retirement Fund.
   (B)   The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for 1,000 hours per year.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 2-2-1998)
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.015 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of 1% of the cost price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such servicepersons either in the
form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an incident
to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1)
§ 33.016 FILING DATE.
   Every supplier or serviceperson required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of the village shall file, on a frequency as
determined by the State Department of Revenue, the report to the State
Department of Revenue required by § 9 of the service Occupation Tax Act, being
35 ILCS 115/9.
§ 33.017 PAYMENT.
   At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the State
Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding period.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3)
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX
§ 33.030 TAX IMPOSED; RATE.
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, being 410 ILCS 130/1 et seq., at retail in
the village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in
the course of that business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of 65
ILCS 5/8-11-23.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 33.031 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   (1)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such
retailer to the State Department of Revenue (Department).
      (2)   Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by
this subchapter and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be
remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the
state.
      (3)   Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller’s tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tux that
sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 3-2-2020)
ELECTRICITY TAX
§ 33.045 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations
or privileges: the privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the
village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each
purchaser:
      (1)   For the first 2,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.610 per kilowatt hour;
      (2)   For the next 48,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.400 per kilowatt hour;
      (3)   For the next 50,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.360 per kilowatt hour;
      (4)   For the next 400,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.350 per kilowatt hour;
      (5)   For the next 500,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.340 per kilowatt hour;
      (6)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.320 per kilowatt hour;
      (7)   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.315 per kilowatt hour;
      (8)   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.310 per kilowatt hour;
      (9)   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt hours used or consumed in a month:
$0.305 per kilowatt hour; and
      (10)   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt hours in a month: $0.300 per kilowatt hour.
   (B)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in division (A)
above shall be effective on February 1, 2010 for residential and non-
residential customers.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.046 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the taxes authorized by this subchapter may be imposed with respect
to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent which the
business or privilege may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state or any political
subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the business of
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas, water or
electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or using or
consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to taxation
under the provisions of this subchapter for those transactions that are or may
become subject to taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’
Occupation Tax Act as authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax
authorized by this subchapter be imposed upon any person engaged in a business
or on any privilege unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same
rate upon all persons engaged in businesses of the same class in the village,
whether privately or municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same
privilege within the village.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.047 ADDITIONAL TAXES.
   Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.048 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
subchapter and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the village by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity.
   (B)   Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such
gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax, and supplying data
to the village upon request.
   (C)   If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
village in the manner prescribed by the village. On or before the last day of
each month, persons delivering electricity shall make a return to the village
for the preceding month and shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
village the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.049 REPORTS TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not
paid the tax imposed by this subchapter to a person delivering electricity as
set forth in §
33.045 and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax shall make a
return to the Clerk for the preceding month stating:
      (1)   His or her name;
      (2)   His or her principal place of business;
      (3)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
      (4)   Amount of tax; and
      (5)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
   (B)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time
of making such return, pay to the village, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable
gross receipts.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 33.050 CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT.
   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this subchapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this subchapter from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more that three
years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited. No action
to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be commenced more than three years after the due date of such amount.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
§ 33.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Revenue.
   GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money whether paid in
money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the village and charges for the portion of the inter-office
channels provided within the village. Charges for that portion of the inter-
office channel connecting two or more channel termination points, one or more
of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of the village, shall be
determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total charge
for the inter-office channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the village and the denominator of which is the total number of
channel termination points connected by the inter-office channel. However,
GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: the tax imposed by this subchapter; the tax imposed by the
Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 630/1 et seq., the tax imposed
by I.R.C. § 4251; 911 surcharges; or charges added to customers’ bills pursuant
to the provisions of Public Utilities Act §§ 9-221 or 9-222, being 220 ILCS 5/
9-221 or 9-222, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers’ bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the State Commerce
Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the Public Utilities Act;
      (2)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
the village;
      (3)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
      (4)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
      (5)   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under the
Public Utilities Act § 9-222.1, being 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1, to the extent of such
exemption and during the period of time specified by the Department of Commerce
and Economic Opportunity;
      (6)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this subchapter has already been paid to a retailer and only to the
extent that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation
between the corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation
rendering such service;
      (7)   Bad debts (BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related to
a sale at retail for which GROSS CHARGES are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
      (8)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated telecommunication
devices;
      (9)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS 635/1 et
seq.; or
      (10)   Charges for non-taxable services or telecommunications if: those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and the retailer can reasonable identify the non-taxable charges on
the retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
non-taxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the GROSS CHARGE from the
sale of both taxable and non-taxable services of telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving non-taxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
   INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside of the state.
   INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within the state.
   PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
   RETAILER. Every person engaged in the business of making sales at retail as
defined in this section. The Department may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any RETAILER
not maintaining a place of business within the state, who, to the satisfaction
of the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment
of the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this state in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a RETAILER maintaining
a place of business within the state. The permit may be revoked by the
Department at its discretion.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THE STATE. Any retailer having
or maintaining within the state, directly or by a subsidiary, an office,
distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse or
other place of business, or any agent or other representative operating within
the state under the authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective
of whether such place of business or agent or other representative is located
here permanently or temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is
licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, being 35 ILCS 638/
1 et seq. For air-to-ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean
the location of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as
defined by telephone number, authorization code or location in the state where
bills are sent.
   TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees,
or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this subchapter.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, private line services, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter, computer exchange services,
cellular mobile telecommunications service, specialized mobile radio,
stationary two-way radio, paging service or any other form of mobile and
portable one-way or two-way communications, or any other transmission of
messages or information by electronic or similar means, between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities. PRIVATE LINE means a dedicated non-traffic sensitive service for a
single customer, that entitles the customer to exclusive or priority use of a
communications channel or group of channels, from one or more specified
locations to one or more other specified locations. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall
not include value added services in which computer processing applications are
used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the information for
purposes other than transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include
purchases of TELECOMMUNICATIONS by a TELECOMMUNICATIONS service provider for
use as a component part of the service provided by such provider to the
ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end
communications. Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of inter-company facilities and all TELECOMMUNICATIONS resold in the
subsequent provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
TELECOMMUNICATIONS service shall be non-taxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under this subchapter. PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING
ARRANGEMENTS means the term as defined in Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act § 2-27,
being 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.066 TAX IMPOSED.
   A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges.
   (A)   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 1% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-village taxation of the act or privilege that is subject
to taxation under this division (A), any taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer
has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be allowed a credit
against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent
of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the village that was not
previously allowed as a credit against any other village tax.
   (B)   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in the
village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 1% of the gross
charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer. To
prevent actual multi-state or multi-municipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this division (B), any taxpayer, upon proof
that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in the state
on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or
authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due
and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in another
municipality in the state which was not previously allowed as a credit against
any other state or local tax in this state.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this subchapter is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
village.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.067 COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS.
   (A)   The tax authorized by this subchapter shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in the state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this subchapter
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this subchapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.068 RETURNS TO STATE DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE.
   On or before August 30, 2010, and on or before the last day of every month
thereafter, the tax imposed under this subchapter on telecommunication
retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required
by the State Department of Revenue pursuant to the Illinois Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act (P.A. 92-526, § 5-50), being 35 ILCS 636/
5-50, and any accompanying rules and regulations created by the Department to
implement the Act.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.069 RESELLERS.
   (A)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this subchapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
   (B)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
Department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax-free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
persons having discontinued the making of resales.
   (C)   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in the state shall not be made tax-
free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is non-
taxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §§
33.045 through
33.050 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than $100 nor more than $500 and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 10-07, passed 1-4-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2
CHAPTER 34: POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Fair housing/equal employment opportunities
   
34.02   Identity protection policy
   
34.03   Federal surplus property program
   
34.04   Internet usage policy
   
34.05   Village hall use policy
   
34.06   Sidewalk co-op replacement policy
Prohibiting Sexual Harassment Policy
   
34.20   Prohibition on sexual harassment
   
34.21   Definition
   
34.22   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment
   
34.23   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting of sexual harassment
   
34.24   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition of sexual harassment
   
34.25   Consequences for knowingly making a false report
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FAIR HOUSING/EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES.
   (A)   Discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations and
financing based on race, color, sex, religion, age, ancestry, national origin,
marital status, or physical or mental handicap unrelated to ability is
prohibited.
   (B)   The village prohibits discrimination in its programs on the basis of
race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability, political
beliefs, and marital or familial status. Persons with disabilities who require
alternative means of communication program information (Braille, large print,
audiotape and the like) or who wish to file a complaint should contact the
Board President and/or Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The village is an equal opportunity employer.
(Res. 05-07, passed 10-3-2005)
§ 34.02 IDENTITY PROTECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Generally. The village adopts the identity protection policy pursuant
to the Identity Protection Act, 5 ILCS 179/1 et seq. The Identity Protection
Act requires each local and state government agency to draft, approve and
implement an identity protection policy to ensure the confidentiality and
integrity of Social Security numbers agencies collect, maintain and use. It is
important to safeguard Social Security numbers (SSNs) against unauthorized
access because SSNs can be used to facilitate identity theft. One way to better
protect SSNs is to limit the widespread dissemination of those numbers. The
Identity Protection Act was passed in part to require local and state
government agencies to assess their personal information collection practices,
and make necessary changes to those practices to ensure confidentiality.
   (B)   Social security number protections pursuant to law.
      (1)   Whenever an individual is asked to provide the village with a SSN,
the village shall provide that individual with a statement of the purpose or
purposes for which the village is collecting and using the Social Security
number. The village shall also provide the statement of purpose upon request.
      (2)   The village shall not:
         (a)   Publicly post or publicly display in any manner an individual’s
Social Security number. PUBLICLY POST or PUBLICLY DISPLAY means to
intentionally communicate or otherwise intentionally make available to the
general public;
         (b)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any card
required for the individual to access products or services provided by the
person or entity;
         (c)   Require an individual to transmit a Social Security number over
the internet, unless the connection is secure or the Social Security number is
encrypted; or
         (d)   Print an individual’s Social Security number on any materials
that are mailed to the individual, through the U.S. Postal Service, any private
mail service, electronic mail or any similar method of delivery, unless state
or federal law requires the Social Security number to be on the document to be
mailed. SSNs may be included in applications and forms sent by mail, including,
but not limited to, any material mailed in connection with the administration
of the Unemployment Insurance Act, being 820 ILCS 405/100 et seq., any material
mailed in connection with any tax administered by the Department of Revenue and
documents sent as part of an application or enrollment process or to establish,
amend or terminate an account, contract or policy, or to confirm the accuracy
of the Social Security number. A Social Security number that is permissibly
mailed will not be printed, in whole or in part, on a postcard or other mailer
that does not require an envelope or be visible on an envelope without the
envelope having been opened.
      (3)   In addition, the village shall not:
         (a)   Collect, use or disclose a Social Security number from an
individual, unless:
            1.   Required to do so under state or federal law, rules or
regulations, or the collection, use or disclosure of the Social Security number
is otherwise necessary for the performance of the village’s duties and
responsibilities;
            2.   The need and purpose for the Social Security number is
documented before collection of the Social Security number; and
            3.   The Social Security number collected is relevant to the
documented need and purpose.
         (b)   Require an individual to use his or her Social Security number
to access an internet website; or
         (c)   Use the Social Security number for any purpose other than the
purpose for which it was collected.
   (C)   Requirement to redact Social Security numbers.
      (1)   The village shall comply with the provisions of any other state law
with respect to allowing the public inspection and copying of information or
documents containing all or any portion of an individual’s Social Security
number. The village shall redact Social Security numbers from the information
or documents before allowing the public inspection or copying of the
information or documents.
      (2)   When collecting Social Security numbers, the village shall request
each SSN in a manner that makes the SSN easily redacted if required to be
released as part of a public records request. REDACT means to alter or truncate
data so that no more than five sequential digits of a Social Security number
are accessible as part of personal information.
   (D)   Employee access to social security numbers. Only employees who are
required to use or handle information or documents that contain a SSN will have
access. All employees who have access to SSNs are trained to protect the
confidentiality of SSNs.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 2-7-2011)
§ 34.03 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
   The village is authorized to participate in the State Federal Surplus
Property Program.
(Res. 14-01, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 34.04 INTERNET USAGE POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   An internet usage policy provides village employees and officials
with rules and guidelines about the appropriate use of village equipment,
network and internet access. Having such a policy in place helps to protect
both the village and employees/officials; the employees/officials will be aware
that browsing certain sites or downloading files is prohibited and that the
policy must be adhered to or there could be serious repercussions. The internet
usage policy is an important document that must be signed by all village
employees/officials.
      (2)   This policy applies to all employees, elected and appointed
officials, and volunteers of the village who have access to computers and the
internet to be used in the performance of their work. Use of the internet by
employees, elected and appointed officials, and volunteers of the village is
permitted and encouraged where such use supports the goals and objectives of
the village. However, access to the internet through village resources is a
privilege and all employees, elected and appointed officials, and volunteers of
the village must adhere to the policies concerning computer, e-mail and
internet usage.
      (3)   Violation of these policies could result in disciplinary and/or
legal action leading up to and including termination of employment. Employees,
elected and appointed officials, and volunteers of the village may also be held
personally liable for damages caused by any violations of this policy. All
employees, elected and appointed officials, and volunteers of the village are
required to acknowledge receipt and confirm that they have understood and agree
to abide by the rules hereunder.
   (B)   Computer, e-mail and internet usage.
      (1)   All employees, elected and appointed officials, and volunteers of
the village are expected to use the internet responsibly and productively.
Internet access is limited to job-related activities only and personal use is
not permitted. Job-related activities include research and educational tasks
that may be found via the internet that would help an employee, elected and
appointed officials, and volunteers of the village accomplish his or her
assigned role.
      (2)   All internet data that is composed, transmitted and/or received by
the village computer systems is considered to belong to the village and is
recognized as part of its official data. It is therefore subject to disclosure
for legal reasons or to other appropriate third parties.
      (3)   The equipment, services and technology used to access the internet
are the property of the village and the village reserves the right to monitor
internet traffic and monitor and access data that is composed, sent or received
through its on-line connections. E-mails sent via the village e-mail system
should not contain content that is deemed to be offensive. This includes,
though is not restricted to, the use of vulgar or harassing language/images.
All sites and downloads may be monitored and/or blocked by the village if they
are deemed to be harmful and/or not productive to business. The installation of
software not approved for usage by the village is strictly prohibited.
      (4)   Unacceptable use of the internet by employees, elected and
appointed officials, and volunteers of the village includes, but is not limited
to:
         (a)   Sending or posting discriminatory, harassing or threatening
messages or images on the internet or via village e-mail service;
         (b)   Using computers to perpetrate any form of fraud, and/or
software, film or music piracy;
         (c)   Stealing, using or disclosing of another person’s password
without authorization;
         (d)   Downloading, copying or pirating software and electronic files
that are copyrighted or without authorization;
         (e)   Sharing confidential material, trade secrets or proprietary
information outside of the organization;
         (f)   Hacking into unauthorized websites;
         (g)   Sending or posting information that is defamatory to the
village, its services, residents, colleagues and/or customers;
         (h)   Introducing malicious software onto the village network and/or
jeopardizing the security of the organization’s electronic communications
systems;
         (i)   Sending or posting chain letters, solicitations or
advertisements not related to business purposes or activities; or
         (j)   Passing off personal views as representing those of the village.
      (5)   If an employee, elected or appointed official, or volunteer of the
village is unsure about what constitutes acceptable internet usage, then he or
she should ask the Village Clerk or Board President for further guidance and
clarification.
      (6)   Each employee will complete annual cybersecurity training and
certify completion there of. The Village Clerk will be responsible for
providing the training materials.
      (7)   All terms and conditions as stated in this section are applicable
to all users of the village network and internet connections. All terms and
conditions as stated in this section reflect an agreement of all parties and
should be governed and interpreted in accordance with the policies and
procedures mentioned in this section. Any user violating these policies is
subject to disciplinary actions deemed appropriate by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 34.05 VILLAGE HALL USE POLICY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Requests are on a first come, first served basis.
      (2)   The village retains the right to refuse the use of any property or
equipment.
      (3)   The rental agreement is not transferrable to third parties
      (4)   User fees must be paid in advance of use. Deposits paid by check
will be held for a minimum of seven business days before deposit is returned.
      (5)   All users in charge must be at least 21 years of age.
      (6)   Building modifications of use of equipment or displays that damage
property are not allowed.
      (7)   Users are responsible for damage to property and equipment and will
be required to make restitution for any damage or loss.
      (8)   All users are responsible for cleanup.
   (B)   Obligations of user.
      (1)   Please refer to most recently approved rental agreement for
complete list of obligations.
      (2)   Users must ensure that the building is kept clean and undamaged.
Users are responsible for any damages done during the use of the building and
will be billed for these damages or unusual cleaning costs. Users will be
responsible for setting up tables and chairs based on their needs and returning
tables and chairs to their original setup.
§ 34.06 SIDEWALK CO-OP REPLACEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DESIGNATED FUNDS. The Board of Trustees will determine the amount of
money to be designated for the sidewalk co-op replacement policy annually, when
determining the coming year budget. The sidewalk co-op replacement will be
distributed on a first-come first-served request basis, subject to approval by
the Board of Trustees.
      ELIGIBLE PROPERTIES. Rental or owner-occupied residential one-, two- or
three- family residences. Properties used for commercial, industrial or
institutional purposes are ineligible.
      OWNER. Any person or entity holding or claiming any legal or equitable
interest of any nature in real property located directly adjacent to the public
land or public easement on which the public sidewalk or walkway exists.
      SIDEWALK or WALKWAY. The usual and normal connotation and the
specifications for repair or replacement of a public SIDEWALK or WALKWAY within
the meaning of this policy shall be those of a Portland cement concrete not
less than four inches thick and six inches at driveways, located within the
village’s rights-of-way.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   A property owner must submit a written request to the village for
placement on the village’s sidewalk co-op replacement policy, subject to
approval by the Board of Trustees after visual inspection. The visual
inspection will look for at least one of the following five hazards:
         (a)   Uneven squares: an off-set in the surface has developed that is
three-fourths inches or greater;
         (b)   Cracks: a crack of one-fourth-inch wide or greater exists;
         (c)   Spalled surface: the surface has decayed creating an unsafe
condition;
         (d)   Deteriorated joints: the joints have an eroded condition and are
three- fourth-inch wide or greater; or
         (e)   Holes: holes in the surface.
      (2)   The property owner of record must submit the request for renter
occupied residences.
      (3)   The village will prepare an estimate for concrete and, on approval
of the application, the property owner must pay the estimated cost of concrete
in full.
      (4)   On receipt of payment, the village will schedule the repair,
purchase the necessary materials, remove any existing concrete and provide the
labor for the sidewalk repair.
(Ord. 15-03, passed 4-6-2015)
PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 34.20 PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The courts
have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under Title
VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000e et seq. All persons have a right to work in an environment free from
sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects
individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of the
village to prohibit harassment of any person by any village official, village
agent, village employee or village agency or office on the basis of sex or
gender. All village officials, village agents, village employees and village
agencies or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person,
regardless of any employment relationship or lack thereof.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.21 DEFINITION.
   This subchapter adopts the definition of SEXUAL HARASSMENT as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, being 775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
   (A)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      (1)   Verbal. Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature;
      (2)   Non-verbal. Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, catcalls, smacking or
kissing noises;
      (3)   Visual. Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
      (4)   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault; or
      (5)   Textual/electronic: Sexting (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
   (C)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a reasonable person.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 34.22 PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself
or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident
(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating his or her
position to the offending employee, and his or her immediate supervisor. It is
not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
   (B)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
      (1)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express his or her objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      (2)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
         (a)   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer or the chief executive officer of the village.
         (b)   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the village will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
      (3)   Resolution outside the village. The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
village. However, all village employees have the right to contact the Illinois
Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within 180 days of the alleged
incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must
be filed within 300 days.
   (C)   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what
was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited
to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
   (D)   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
village. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 34.23 PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No village official, village agency, village employee or village
office shall take any retaliatory action against any village employee due to a
village employee’s:
      (1)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
      (2)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
      (3)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
   (B)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any village employee that is
taken in retaliation for a village employee’s involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
   (C)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
   (D)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the
State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10), being 5 ILCS 430/
1-1 et seq., provides whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer
that occurs in retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
      (1)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state agency or
other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule or regulation;
      (2)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
      (3)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
   (E)   (1)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an
employer may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a
court, an administrative hearing or before a legislative commission or
committee, or in any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a state or federal
law, rule or regulation.
      (2)   In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
   (F)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), being
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq., it is a civil rights violation for a person, or for
two or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a person because he or she
has opposed that which he or she reasonably and in good faith believes to be
sexual harassment in employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a
complaint, testified, assisted or participated in an investigation, proceeding
or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
   (G)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge due within 180 days (IDHR) or 300 days (EEOC) of the
alleged retaliation.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 34.24 CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant
to village policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the village and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to
local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the village shall be separate and
distinct from any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 34.25 CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT.
   (A)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
village policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
   (B)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act, being 5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq., to an ethics commission, an inspector
general, the state police, a state’s attorney, the Attorney General or any
other law enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics
commission may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person
who intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 17-17, passed 12-4-2017)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATERWORKS SYSTEM
      
51.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
52.   GARBAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATERWORKS SYSTEM
Section
   
50.01   Water Department
   
50.02   Properties of system
   
50.03   Ownership of utility
   
50.04   Charges; rates
   
50.05   Reading of meters; notice
   
50.06   Failure of meters to work
   
50.07   Default in payment
   
50.08   No obligation to furnish when delinquent; cut-off notice; hook-up fee
   
50.09   Liability for charges; cut-off by owner
   
50.10   Delinquent charges; liens; discontinuance of service
   
50.11   Meters required
   
50.12   Collector; duties
   
50.13   Revenue; deposited at bank
   
50.14   Waterworks Fund
   
50.15   Accounts; books; monthly reports
   
50.16   Superintendent; duties
   
50.17   Compensation
   
50.18   Monthly reports
   
50.19   Permission for collection
   
50.20   Fees for connection
   
50.21   Rules and regulations; service pipes and connections
   
50.22   Extension of main
   
50.23   Waterworks Department employee; right to premises
   
50.24   Private water systems prohibited
   
50.25   Connection to public water main required
   
50.26   Extension of water mains
   
50.27   Unauthorized connections
   
50.28   Applications; connections to water systems
   
50.29   Opening in streets; how protected
   
50.30   Turning on water; seals
   
50.31   Meters maintained by village
   
50.32   Installation of water service pipes; meter penalties
   
50.33   Connection to standard water main required
   
50.34   Cross-connections not permitted
   
50.35   Inspection and approval of service pipes
   
50.36   Water without meters
   
50.37   Building and piping requirements
   
50.38   Curtailment
   
50.39   Extension of system
   
50.40   Protection from damage
   
50.41   Notice of violation
   
50.42   Liability for loss; damage
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 WATER DEPARTMENT.
   It is hereby found, determined and declared necessary for the best interest
of the village that the existing waterworks system of the village shall be
maintained and operated in a separate department, to be known and designated as
the Waterworks Department of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-1)
§ 50.02 PROPERTIES OF SYSTEM.
   All property, real, personal and mixed comprising the now existing
waterworks system, as hereinabove more fully described, be, and the same is,
hereby found, determined and declared to constitute the properties of the
Waterworks Department of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2)
§ 50.03 OWNERSHIP OF UTILITY.
   The Waterworks Department shall be owned and operated by the village as a
utility, known as the Waterworks Department of the village, and all
improvements and extensions to said waterworks shall be considered as
improvements and extensions to said utility; and all the properties, assets,
obligations and liabilities, of all kinds, of said system, existing,
outstanding and accruing or to accrue shall be held, used, confessed and
acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations and liabilities of said
utility.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-3)
§ 50.04 CHARGES; RATES.
   There are hereby established charges and rates for the use of and for the
service supplied by the Water Department of the village based upon the amount
of water consumed as shown by water meters as follows.
   (A)   Charges and rates generally.
      (1)   First 1,000 gallons per statement cycle: $37.18.
      (2)   For each 100 gallons above 1,000 per month: $1.40 per 100 gallons.
      (3)   The rates charged for water shall in now case be less than the
monthly minimum bill which shall be $37.18.
      (4)   The above rates shall be charged per individual family unit for
residential use, and per building unit for commercial use. Each unit shall have
a meter, and service connections are not permitted without a meter.
   (B)   Bulk sale of water.
      (1)   Bulk water sold in tank wagons loading water at a location provided
by the village shall be charged at the rate of $35 per 1,000 gallons. The rates
charged for bulk water shall in case be less than $35 per statement cycle.
      (2)   Arrangements must be made in advance with the Maintenance and Water
Superintendent to collect bulk water.
      (3)   Prior users with a current invoice of 30 days past due or more will
not be allowed additional access to bulk water until their bill is made
current.
   (C)   Other charges.
      (1)   There shall be a $25 fee if the water customer does not pay his,
her or their water bill by the due date.
      (2)   There shall be a $50 connection fee if the connection occurs during
normal business hours from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Water will not be connected
after normal business hours and will occur the next business day or as soon as
the Maintenance and Water Superintendent is available.
      (3)   In the event that water service is disconnected for non payment on
non compliance of any village water code of state water regulation, there shall
be a $50 reconnection fee if the reconnection occurs during normal business
hours from 7:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Water will not be connected after normal
business hours and will occur the next business day, or as soon as the
Maintenance and Water Superintendent is available.
      (4)   If the event any form of payment used to make a water payment is
not honored (i.e. returned), there shall be a fee of $25 per occurrence.
(810 ILCS 5/3-806).
      (5)   There shall be a service deposit paid of $100 if the property is
owned by the occupant. It will be $150 for any tenant occupying the property.
The service deposit will be returned when the account is closed, less any
amounts due.
      (6)   There shall be a $15 per statement surcharge for water delivered to
customers living outside the village limits.
   (D)   Annual increases.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees reserve the right to review all water charges
and adjust as needed for costs and improvements. They will review no less than
annually.
   (E)   Loan repayment.
      (1)   There is hereby created a loan repayment assessment with the said
assessment being a $10.25 surcharge per statement for each connection as long
as the loan from USDA is outstanding. At that time (expected to be May 1, 2057,
but could be sooner), this fee will automatically convert to be added to the
base water rate.
   (F)   Debt Service Reserve Fund. There is hereby created the Debt Service
Reserve Fund as required by the USDA loan with said assessment of $5.80
surcharge per month for each connection until $23,880 is accumulated. (Note: As
of the date of adoption of the 2025 codification, this fee will be suspended as
the Fund has reached its required balance. If, for any reason, it shall fall
below the required balance, the fee will automatically be reimplemented. No
additional action is required to reinstate. This clause expires May 1, 2057 or
when the USDA loan is satisfied.)
§ 50.05 READING OF METERS; NOTICE.
   (A)   All meters shall be read monthly by electronic methods. Occasionally,
the Maintenance and Water Superintendent may need to read the meter manually.
Notice of payment due shall be sent to the responsible party identified on the
application for water, unless other directions are given by the owner of the
premise. Said notice shall be sent out within ten days after each
representative meter is read. Said notice shall state the amount of payment
due, the date the meter is read, the reading of that date, the previous reading
and the gallons consumed. All bills shall be due and payable on the fifteenth
of every month, and if unpaid on said due date, said bill shall be delinquent.
All bills shall be rendered at the rates hereinabove fixed. Failure to receive
monthly bills shall not be an excuse for nonpayment of the bill.
   (B)   In addition to the rates in §
50.04, every delinquent bill shall be assessed a late fee of $25; provided
however that if the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Federal holiday,
users will have until 5:00 p.m. on the next business day to be considered “on
time”.
      (1)   First example: The fifteenth is on a Sunday and Monday is not a
holiday. Users have until 5:00 p.m. on the sixteenth to pay without penalty.
      (2)   Second example: The fifteenth is on a Saturday and Monday is a
federal holiday. Users have until 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday the eighteenth to pay
without penalty.
§ 50.06 FAILURE OF METERS TO WORK.
   In all cases in which meters fail to work for all or any part of a month,
the payment for said month in which the meter failed shall be an amount as
estimated from the records of the Water Department of past usage for the last
12 months. If 12 months’ history is not available or otherwise not appropriate
(e.g.: There was a large leak during the 12 months, or the like), a shorter
sample can be used at the discretion of the Water Department.
§ 50.07 DEFAULT IN PAYMENT.
   (A)   No village water shall be supplied to any premises upon the
application of any person who is in default as to any water payment due the
village, no matter at which premises said default occurred, until such person
has paid such back water rent in full, including all charges and penalties.
   (B)   (1)   Shut-off of water service for nonpayment of water bill shall be
deferred in those instances where the National Weather Service has forecast a
heat index of 95°F or above, or a wind chill of 32°F or below.
      (2)   Shut-off of water service shall resume when the National Weather
Service forecast returns to a heat index below 95°F/wind chill above 32°F. The
temperature determination will be made in the 24 hours leading up to the shut-
off with the final decision being at the discretion of the Water Department.
§ 50.08 NO OBLIGATION TO FURNISH WHEN DELINQUENT; CUT-OFF NOTICE; HOOK-UP FEE.
   The village shall be under no obligation to furnish water to any premises
for which a delinquent water bill remains unpaid, and 15 days after said bill
becomes delinquent shall have full power and authority to enter said premises
and turn off, disconnect or terminate water service, and said water service
shall not be resumed until the delinquent water bill and reconnection fee is
paid in full. The reconnection fee shall be $50.
§ 50.09 LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; CUT-OFF BY OWNER.
   The owner of any lot, building or premises, and the occupant thereof, and
the user of the water service of said system shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for such service on said premises; and the services shall be
furnished to the premises by the village only upon the condition that the owner
of the premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village. The owner or owners of any real estate may at
any time, whether a water bill is current or delinquent, notify the village in
writing on the forms provided by the Water Department that they request to have
the water service to the premises turned off and acknowledging that a
subsequent turn-on of the water service will require the turn-on charge
specified in §
50.08. Upon receipt of such request, the Water Department, within three days
thereafter, shall cause the water service to be turned off. This section shall
not be construed to allow the owner of any property to procure the turn-off of
water of said property against the will of any occupants thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-9)
§ 50.10 DELINQUENT CHARGES; LIENS; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition the title and
phone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily
readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill;
      (2)   If any bill in not paid by or before that date, a second bill will
be mailed containing a shut-off notice that if the bill is not paid within ten
days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment;
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have a
right to a hearing at which he or she may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to the official in charge of
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be discontinued and shall have the final determination of the customer’s
complaint; and
      (4)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained
for the purposes of this division (A); only questions of proper and correct
billing will be considered. In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or
resort to the hearing procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued
at the time specified, but in no event until the charges have been due and
unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (B)   In the event charges for water service are not paid within 30 days
after the due date of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed
late and are hereby declared to be delinquent; and thereafter such delinquent
charge shall constitute a lien upon the real estate for which such water
services are supplied. The Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file
sworn statements showing such delinquencies, in the office of the County
Recorder of Deeds. This statement shall contain the legal description of the
premises serviced, the amount of the unpaid bill and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount, as well as for all charges for water service
subsequent to the period covered by the bill. The filing of such statements
shall be deemed notice for the payment of such charges for water service and
taxes. The fees related to filing the lien and the release fee will be added to
the user’s account.
   (C)   Each water customer has an obligation to pay for water used, and the
village fully expects each water customer to pay in the manner described in
this chapter; however, the village recognizes a situation can occur that
impedes payment in the described manner, and by the provisions of this chapter,
leads to a water service disconnection. The Board of Trustees designates the
Water Clerk to determine if such situation merits a negotiated payment to avoid
a water service disconnection. Should a negotiated payment agreement be
reached, such agreement shall be put in writing and signed by the water
customer and the Water Clerk by the twenty-fifth of the month. Deviation from
the agreed upon payment process, or nonpayment of future water bills not
covered by the agreement will lead to immediate water disconnection.
   (D)   Each customer shall be limited to two extension agreements in 12
consecutive months and only one at a time. If a payment agreement is broken,
another is not available for 12 months and the past due amount is due in full
immediately.
   (E)   Payment agreements can be made in two ways:
      (1)   Extensions of 30 days or less from the due date require full
payment by the agreed upon date of all amounts delinquent; or
      (2)   Extensions of more than 30 days require 10% of the past due amount
to be paid at the time of the agreement with the remaining balance spread
evenly over a maximum of six months.
   (F)   Following the same process as above, the user may also have service
disconnected if they fail to provide a proper mailing address or violation of
state or local water violations.
§ 50.11 METERS REQUIRED.
   No free service of the Water Department of the village shall be furnished to
any user either a person, firm, organization or corporation, public or private.
Every user of the Waterworks Department of the village shall have a metered
water connection to said system and every such water meter shall be sealed. It
shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Water Department of the village
to maintain all meters of the system in good and accurate working condition,
and to replace all meters as he or she shall determine have become inaccurate
or faulty. Also, he or she shall report the master meter reading to the Village
Clerk the same day that meters are read for billing (typically the fifteenth).
§ 50.12 COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Village Water Clerk is hereby designated as collector for the Water
Department of the village, and it shall be the duty of such collector to render
bills for service and all other charges in connection therewith, to collect all
moneys due thereon and make written monthly reports to the Chairperson of the
Water Committee.
§ 50.13 REVENUE; DEPOSITED AT BANK.
   All revenue and moneys derived from the operation of the Water Department
shall be held by the Village Clerk separate and apart from all other funds of
the village and all of said sums, without any deduction whatever, shall be
properly deposited at the primary approved financial institution of the village
(First National Bank and Trust Company) not more than ten days after receipt of
the same, or at such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be
directed by the President and Board of Trustees.
§ 50.14 WATERWORKS FUND.
   The village shall receive all such revenue from the Water Department and all
other funds and moneys incident to the operation of such system as the same may
be delivered to him or her and deposit the same in a separate fund designated
as the Water Fund of the village, and said Clerk shall administer such Fund in
every respect in the manner provided for by the Illinois Municipal Code and all
laws amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto. A surety bond with approved
corporate sureties shall be adequate to cover the maximum amount on hand at any
time, but not less than $50,000. The village shall be responsible for any
expense related to the bond.
§ 50.15 ACCOUNTS; BOOKS; MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The Village Clerk shall establish a proper system of accounts and shall keep
proper books, records and accounts in which complete and correct entries shall
be made of all transactions relative to the Water Department, and within 180
days of April 30 each year, he or she shall cause to be made an audit by a
certified public accountant of the books to show the receipts and disbursements
of the Water Department, customers’ gallons billed and pumped, insurance and
the like.
§ 50.16 SUPERINTENDENT; DUTIES.
   There shall be a Superintendent of the Waterworks Department to be appointed
by the Board of Trustees. The appointed Superintendent shall have supervision
over all buildings, mains, treatment works, wells, appurtenances and equipment
used in the furnishing of Waterworks Department service to the village and its
environs. He or she shall see that the object and purpose of the Waterworks
Department are carried out and that the waterworks system is conducted on an
economical, businesslike basis, and for this purpose, it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent and all of the officers, employees and servants of said
Department to enforce all laws and the provisions of this chapter and to
observe, obey and carry out the orders and directions of the Board of Trustees.
The Superintendent shall prepare and keep at the village hall a complete atlas
of the waterworks system and all connections and other appurtenances distinctly
recorded therein.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-16)
§ 50.17 COMPENSATION.
   The Superintendent and other officers and employees of the Waterworks
Department shall receive as compensation for their services, amounts to be
fixed by the Board of Trustees from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-17)
§ 50.18 MONTHLY REPORTS.
   The Superintendent shall, not later than the second Tuesday of every month,
or more often if required, submit a report in writing to the Water Trustee of
the Board of Trustees, listing therein, but not limited to, the following data:
   (A)   Applications for service to be approved by the Board of Trustees;
   (B)   Number of metered and unmetered customers connected to the system at
the beginning and the end of the report period;
   (C)   The sale of water from the bulk water salesperson at the treatment
plant and for other bulk water sales;
   (D)   The estimated water usage through unmetered areas such as fires,
hydrant flushing, water main interruptions and the like;
   (E)   Details of any repairs, extensions and services made to the system or
other facts pertinent to his or her duties in the conduct of his or her office;
and
   (F)   The amount of water used during the month as shown by the master
meter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-18)
§ 50.19 PERMISSION FOR COLLECTION.
   No connection shall be made to the Waterworks Department without the
permission of the Board of Trustees. Any connection or opening made to the
waterworks without such permission or in a manner different from the mode
prescribed for such opening or connection shall subject the maker to a penalty
as hereinafter provided. The applicant for connection shall first make
application to the Board of Trustees upon the form furnished by the Waterworks
Department. Said application shall contain an agreement on the part of the
applicant that all the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of any
village ordinance relating to the Waterworks Department will be complied with;
that all water rates, assessments, rents and all fines or penalties assessed,
charged or properly imposed against said applicant on the property described in
said application will be paid. No water service shall be laid or used to serve
more than one distinct premises or building and a separate application shall be
made for each service requested. Said application shall contain the legal
description of the property to be served, as well as the street or mailing
address of said premises or building. When the applicant hereunder has complied
with all the provisions of the application and the Board of Trustees has
approved the application, a written permit shall be issued by the Water
Department authorizing the connection.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-19) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 FEES FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay $100 if the applicant is a homeowner, and $150
if the applicant is a renter, plus the cost of installing a corporation stop
and meter pit installation. The village reserves the right to request proof of
ownership if unable to verify from public records.
   (B)   The village shall install the necessary piping from the main to the
meter pit at no additional cost to the applicant. The meter pit shall be
installed in accordance with the Water Department rules and regulations and all
work, between the meter pit or curb stop and building or premises, shall be the
responsibility of the applicant.
§ 50.21 RULES AND REGULATIONS; SERVICE PIPES AND CONNECTIONS.
   The President and Board of Trustees are hereby authorized to make such rules
and regulations consistent with this chapter for the connection to the
Waterworks Department, specifying the types and sizes of pipes and all the
other appurtenances and extensions thereto, and amend the same from time to
time as may be deemed necessary. All service pipes and connections to the
Waterworks Department shall comply with said specifications and rules. Any
person not complying with the specifications and rules for connections to the
Waterworks Department shall be subject to a penalty as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-21) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 EXTENSION OF MAIN.
   Anyone requesting extension of existing water mains or a new service shall
first submit a set of plans and specifications with his, her or their request
showing the location of the proposed water mains, valves, fire hydrants and
fittings. All locations shown on said plans and specifications shall be in
reference to property lines. Likewise, a legal description of the property that
is to be served by the extension or installation of new mains shall also be
filed along with the aforesaid plans and specifications. If a proposed
installation is to serve an area where the village has previously established a
connection or tap-on charge, then the person making the above request must pay
the tap-on charge at the time that the permit is granted. Such documents as
herein listed shall be filed with the Superintendent of Water who shall be the
one to issue the permit after first securing approval from the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-22)
§ 50.23 WATERWORKS DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEE; RIGHT TO PREMISES.
   Employees of the Waterworks Department shall have the right at all times of
access to any person’s premises for the purpose of ascertaining the number and
type of water connection to the system. Any person refusing the right to permit
the said employees of the Waterworks Department the above described right of
access to his or her premises shall be subject to a penalty as provided for in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-23) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 PRIVATE WATER SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person having his or her residence or place of business within the
territorial limits of the Waterworks Department shall be permitted to secure
water for such residence or place of business located in the village, otherwise
than through the water mains of the village, whenever the water mains of the
water system of the village are adjacent to, or within 100 feet of any
subdivided lot, or parcel of real estate, upon which said residence or place of
business is located.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-24) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER MAIN REQUIRED.
   In all cases where a public water main is now installed, or hereafter may be
installed, in any street, alley, public way or easement in the village, all
inhabitants or users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting,
abutting on or within a distance of 100 feet from said public water main to the
nearest property line, of any such subdivided lot or parcel of real estate on
any such street, alley, public way or easement, shall at their expense, make or
cause to be made connection to such public water main within three months after
installation of such public water main, if the same be not now installed. All
users shall discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection which
they theretofore may have had with any other private water supply.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-25)
§ 50.26 EXTENSION OF WATER MAINS.
   Any property owner or developer desiring to extend the public water mains
for the benefit of their property may do so in accordance with the
specifications and plans of the village, all of which shall be at the expense
of the said property owner or developer unless the Board of Trustees agrees to
participation as described in §
50.39.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-26)
§ 50.27 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public water main or appurtenance thereof,
without having first obtained a written permit from the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-27) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 APPLICATIONS; CONNECTIONS TO WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to make any connection with the said water system,
or have the use thereof, shall first make application to the office of the
Superintendent upon a blank form or forms furnished by said office. Said
application shall contain an agreement on the part of the applicant, that all
the rules, regulations, conditions and provisions of all ordinances of the
village will be complied with; that all fees, deposits, water rates, charges,
rents, and all fines and penalties assessed, charged or imposed against said
applicant, upon the property described in said application will be paid.
   (B)   When the applicant hereunder has complied with all the provisions of
the ordinances of the village, a written permit shall then be issued by the
Board of Trustees authorizing the connection to be made.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-28)
§ 50.29 OPENING IN STREETS; HOW PROTECTED.
   All openings made in streets and sidewalks shall be protected at all times
by sufficient barriers, on which signal lights or flares shall be placed and
maintained after dark, together with such other provisions contained in an
ordinance pertaining to street openings.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-29)
§ 50.30 TURNING ON WATER; SEALS.
   (A)   No person not duly authorized shall turn on any service stop, or use
water therefrom when so turned on, under penalty of a fine of $50 for the first
offense and $10 for each consecutive day the offense persists. The person so
using or wasting water in such unlawful manner shall further be liable to pay
therefor at the regular water rates.
   (B)   No seal placed by the Waterworks Department for the protection of any
meter, valve, fitting or other water connection shall be defaced or broken
except on written authority from the Superintendent.
   (C)   No person or persons, other than members of the Waterworks Department
shall use water from any fire hydrant connected with the waterworks system of
the village, except for extinguishing fires or unless especially authorized by
the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 METERS MAINTAINED BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   All permanent water services hereinafter installed, whether for
domestic or commercial purposes, shall be metered. Water meters shall be
furnished by the village and the same shall remain the property of the village.
The village shall be reimbursed the cost of any meter so installed by the
property owner and which charge shall represent an additional fee for the
privilege of making connection to the system.
   (B)   There shall be no reimbursement for this initial service fee upon
removal of the water meter. The village will repair and maintain the meters,
except when a water meter is damaged by hot water backing through the meter or
by other physical damage, the consumer shall be required to pay the cost of
repair and labor upon receipt of a bill for the same.
   (C)   Any such cost of repair shall be a lien against the premises to the
same extent and with the same effect as charges for water service. In any
event, all installations and the placing of meters shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-31)
§ 50.32 INSTALLATION OF WATER SERVICE PIPES; METER PENALTIES.
   (A)   The connection from the main to the curb stop or meter pit shall be
placed at least four feet below the level of the ground and the service pipe
shall be laid sufficiently waving so that it shall be at least one foot longer
than if laid in a straight line and shall be placed in such manner as to
prevent rupture or breakage from settling of the ground. All service pipes
shall be of Type K copper tubing and shall be of not less than three-fourths-
inch diameter.
   (B)   No person, whether owner or occupant, in possession or control of any
building, structure or premises into which water is supplied through the
village waterworks system shall be allowed, without written permission from the
Board of Trustees to supply other persons or families or to supply water from
such building or premises to any other building, structure or premises. The
supply of water to a building, structure or premises of any person who violates
any of the foregoing provisions of this section shall be shut off and stopped
forthwith, and the water shall not again be turned on to such building,
structure or premises from which it was cut off until there shall have been
paid to the village such sum of money as the Board of Trustees shall deem
properly due the village.
   (C)   If after the water supply shall have been turned on to any building,
structure or premises, it shall be found by any officer or employee of the
village that fraudulent representations have been made by the applicant for
such water supply or that water is being used in or upon such building,
structure or premises for purposes not set forth in the application made for
such water supply or that there is willfull and unreasonable use or waste of
water, the Superintendent or such employee of the village as he or she shall
designate shall have the authority, and it shall be his or her duty to cut off
and stop the supply of water to such building, structure or premises forthwith,
and the water shall not be turned on to such building, structure or premises
until the person or persons responsible for such fraudulent representation of
or for such use of water or willfull or unreasonable waste thereof, shall pay
the village such additional sum of money for such water supply or on account of
such unreasonable waste of water as the Board shall find properly to be due the
village. Every person supplied with water from the village waterworks system
shall, at his or her own cost and expense, have installed and kept in repair
all pipes leading from the meter pit to his or her building, structure or
premises as are supplied with water through such service pipes.
   (D)   Each water service pipe shall be connected with said water main and
shall extend horizontally at right angles with said meter main to a point at
least 20 feet from the centerline of the street and shall there be provided
with either a bronze curb stop and box (when the meter is installed in the
building) or a meter pit furnished by the village and the same shall remain the
property of the village. The village shall be reimbursed for the cost of the
meter pit so installed, by the property owner, and which charge shall represent
an additional fee for the privilege of making connection to the system.
   (E)   The water main must be tapped by the Waterworks Department at an angle
of 22-1/2 degrees with the horizontal, and the corporation stop must be turned
so that the T handle will be on top. The corporation stop shall be furnished by
the village and the same shall remain the property of the village. The village
shall be reimbursed the cost of the corporation stop so installed, by the
property owner and such charge shall represent an additional fee for the
privilege of making connection to the system.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-32) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 CONNECTION TO STANDARD WATER MAIN REQUIRED.
   In all cases where a standard water main is now installed or hereinafter may
be installed in any street, alley, public way or easement on the village, all
water users located on any lot or parcel of real estate fronting or abutting on
any such street, alley, public way or easement shall make or cause to be made
connection to such standard water main and pay the tapping charges therefor
within three months thereafter or within six months after the installation of
such standard water main if the same be not now installed, and all users shall
discontinue, within the same period of time, any connection which they
theretofore may have had with any other water line.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-33)
§ 50.34 CROSS-CONNECTIONS NOT PERMITTED.
   Whenever a system of water supply piping, either inside or outside of any
building, receives its supply from any source other than the waterworks system
of the village, such system shall be kept entirely separate from and no cross-
connections or connections of any kind shall be made with any pipe or system of
piping which receives its supply from the Waterworks Department. Water which
has once been used for any purpose whatsoever shall not be returned to the
building’s water supply system.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-34)
§ 50.35 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF SERVICE PIPES.
   All service pipes and connections shall be inspected and approved by the
Superintendent or other persons under his or her direction and no such service
pipes shall be covered until they have been so inspected.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-35) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 WATER WITHOUT METERS.
   Before a permit for the use of water shall be issued where meters cannot be
conveniently used, the person applying for the same shall deposit $250 with the
Village Clerk as a payment on account of water to be used by him or her. On or
before 30 days from the date of the permit, the person to whom such permit is
issued shall file with the Water Department a statement in writing, verified by
his or her affidavit, showing fully the purpose for which the water was used by
him or her for that time, and the amount and location of all work done by him
or her during said time in connection with which any water was used or
required. The Superintendent shall ascertain from said statement and any other
information, the amount due for water so used. If the amount so found to be
due, together with all other fees and costs chargeable against such person is
less than the sum deposited, the surplus shall be paid back to the depositor.
If the amount due for water so used is more than the sum deposited, then the
excess shall be paid at once to the Water Department by such person. If such
person desires to continue to use the water after he or she shall have filed
his or her statement, he or she shall again deposit $250 with the
Superintendent and shall continue to make deposits thereafter and in the same
manner as is provide herein with respect to the first deposit, and the method
of determining the amount of water used and the charge for the same shall be
the same as the provisions respecting the first deposit as hereinbefore
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-36)
§ 50.37 BUILDING AND PIPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All material used for building piping must conform to the standard
requirements of the State Plumbing Code, being 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   (B)   Persons taking water must keep their service pipes connected with
mains or supply pipes and all fixtures connected therewith in good repair and
protected from freezing at their own expense. If it shall be found that there
is an unreasonable or unnecessary waste of water in any building, structure or
premises to which the water is supplied from the Waterworks Department, through
or by means of a leak in any water pipe located in such building, structure or
in or on such premises, the Superintendent of the Waterworks Department shall
cause the water supply to be cut off from such building, structure or premises
unless such waste shall be stopped or shall cease within 24 hours after the
Superintendent has given notice to the owner, occupant or person in possession
or charge or control of such building, structure or premises to stop the waste.
In cases where the water supply is cut off from any building, structure or
premises on account of a neglect, failure or refusal of any person so notified
to stop such leak, the water supply shall not be turned on until the cost and
expense to the village of cutting off and again turning on such water supply
shall have been paid by such owner, occupant or person in possession, charge or
control.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-37)
§ 50.38 CURTAILMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may, at any time during an emergency, when in
its judgment the public interest requires it, prohibit the use of the village
water for street or lawn sprinkling purposes, for washing cars, or for
fountains, for such time as it may deem proper.
   (B)   No person shall so use village water during the time for which such
use shall have been so prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-38) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39 EXTENSION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   No resident or place of business will be allowed a water service
unless there is a water main or distributing pipe in the street or alley
adjacent to the property to be served. Said water main or distributing pipe
shall be of four-inch size or larger.
   (B)   Where a water main does not exist in the street or alley adjacent to
the property to be served, the property owner shall cause the water main to be
extended in accordance with the village master plan and in accordance with the
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
   (C)   Said extension shall be made at the expense of the applicant unless
the Board of Trustees agrees to participation in the extension whereon a tap-on
fee or tap-on district shall be established, whereby the village shall be
reimbursed all costs for the water main extension by the adjacent or future
water users.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-39) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, remove, deface or tamper with any conduit, structure,
valve, hydrant, meter, appurtenances or equipment which is a part of the
Waterworks Department of the village. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-40) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, except §
50.19, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-41)
§ 50.42 LIABILITY FOR LOSS; DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the village by
reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-43)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation in this chapter beyond the
time limit provided for in §
50.20 shall be guilty of a petty offense for each violation. Each day in which
any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-42)
   (B)   Any person violating §
50.34 shall be guilty of a petty offense, and each day of violation shall be
deemed as a separate violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-34)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Sewage system; construction and maintenance
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Permit required
   
51.04   Drainage from septic tanks and cesspools
   
51.05   Septic tanks
   
51.06   Location of cesspools and septic tanks
§ 51.01 SEWAGE SYSTEM; CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct or
maintain any sewage disposal system within the county which does not comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The legally established DeWitt Piatt Bi-County Health
Department, its health officer or his or her duly appointed representatives.
The HEALTH DEPARTMENT, upon determining a violation of this chapter, after
investigation, shall become complaining witness in prosecution.
   PRIVIES.
      (1)   A system of sewage disposal where the water carriage method cannot
reasonably be installed.
      (2)   In such instances, PRIVIES may be erected; provided that the privy
pit or vault shall be constructed according to the design of a sanitary pit
privy having self-closing seat covers and screened vents as set forth in the
latest issue of Circular No. 137 entitled The Sanitary Pit Privy of the State
Department of Public Health, which is hereby made a part of this chapter by
reference.
   SEPTIC TANK and SUBSURFACE DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
      (1)   Disposal systems in which there are indoor flush closets for water
carriage of sewage and where there is no sanitary sewerage system into which
the effluent from the septic tank may be introduced.
      (2)   Privies may not be operated or installed within the village. Porta
potties are allowed for temporary use for events, during construction or while
a septic system is out of repair. Except during construction, no porta potty
shall remain on site for more than 30 days. During construction of a new
structure, it shall be allowed for up to six months. The village may grant
extensions upon request.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-2)
§ 51.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No septic tank, privy vault, sink drain, grease trap or sewage disposal
system shall be erected, constructed or repaired in the county, except in
accordance with these regulations, and it shall be unlawful to proceed with
such work unless a permit therefor shall have first been obtained from the
Health Department. An inspection of the work shall be made by the County Health
Department after the sub-surface tile has bee laid, but not covered. No permit
shall be issued until a seepage test report has been received and approved by
the County Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 DRAINAGE FROM SEPTIC TANKS AND CESSPOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit the water or wastes from any water closet,
urinal, bath tub, kitchen sink, shower or other household plumbing fixtures to
drain into any open course or into any storm sewer or onto the ground surface
in any place within the county. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to permit the
water or wastes from any septic tank or cesspool to flow into any place so that
a stagnant pool or other nuisance results therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 SEPTIC TANKS.
   Every building, house, apartment, store or other premises having water under
pressure and containing a flush toilet, bath tub, lavatory, sink or other
plumbing fixtures not connected with an approved sanitary sewerage system shall
be equipped with an adequate septic tank in good working order and such septic
tank shall be constructed to the provisions in §
51.02.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-5)
§ 51.06 LOCATION OF CESSPOOLS AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   No leaching cesspool shall be located within 75 feet and no septic tank
shall be located within 50 feet of any well, the water of which is used for
drinking or culinary purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7-5-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Garbage containers; receptacles
   
52.03   Contract
   
52.04   Vehicle beds; covers
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES; OTHER REFUSE. The waste product of combustion of any material, and
the term OTHER REFUSE shall mean sweepings, papers, tin cans, dirt or other
accumulations not giving off noxious odors.
   CUSTOMER. Any tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling, tenant house,
lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house or other person, persons, firm
or corporation who hires a hauler as defined herein for the purpose of
regularly collecting garbage.
   GARBAGE. Kitchen and household GARBAGE and ashes and other refuse matter as
herein defined.
   HAULER. A person licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
   KITCHEN AND HOUSEHOLD GARBAGE. Every accumulation of vegetable matter,
liquid or solid, that is received from kitchens and households, and also any,
all and every decayed or unsound matter, such as vegetables and fruits.
   VEHICLE. Automobile, truck or any vessel, VEHICLE or wagon used to transport
garbage or refuse as herein defined.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 11-05, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 52.02 GARBAGE CONTAINERS; RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee or occupant of every dwelling,
tenement house, lodging house, hotel, restaurant, boarding house or other
person, persons, firm or corporation on whose premises kitchen and household
garbage collects, to provide, and at all times to keep within such building, or
on the premises, garbage containers sufficient to hold all kitchen and
household garbage which may accumulate on the premises between collection. Such
containers shall be watertight and with a tight fitting cover and equipped with
suitable handles, which containers shall be placed at all times so as to be
readily accessible for removal and emptying, and where they shall not be a
public nuisance. No person, firm or corporation, unless authorized and licensed
for that purpose, as hereinafter specified, shall interfere with such
containers or the contents thereof. All other refuse and ashes or cinders shall
be placed in a separate covered receptacle, said receptacle to be small enough
that one person can easily handle it. Said receptacles may not be placed in any
alley or street, but must be readily accessible for emptying and removal, but
in any event, they shall not be placed in a position that they would become a
public nuisance. All such garbage, ashes or cinders and other refuse shall be
removed once each week.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 11-05, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 CONTRACT.
   There shall be one contract issued to one hauler of garbage for the village.
This contract is subject to review at any time at the request of either party.
(Ord. 11-05, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 52.04 VEHICLE BEDS; COVERS.
   The beds and covers of all vehicles used in garbage collection shall be
tight enough so that none of the garbage contained therein shall sift through,
scatter by the wind, drop or spill from said vehicles. Covers shall kept closed
when in use.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-13) (Ord. 11-05, passed 10-3-2011)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Traffic Code adopted
   
70.03   Amendments
   
70.04   Non-highway vehicles
Snow Emergency Routes
   
70.15   Snow routes established; parking restrictions
   
70.16   Signs and devices; placement of
   
70.17   Snow emergency declared; news release
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER. Any person who is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   VEHICLE. All types of motor vehicles, including automobiles, trucks,
tractors, buses, motorcycles, motor scooters, motor bicycles and all other
means of transportation which will transport a person or persons by mechanical
means, whether such VEHICLE be self-propelled or propelled by muscular power,
and including also VEHICLES or trailers or semi-trailers pulled or towed by a
motor VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
§ 70.02 TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted by reference the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 ILCS 5/
1-100 et seq., the same being a public record of the state, with the exception
of certain sections thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
§ 70.03 AMENDMENTS.
   Excluded from adoption by reference by this code are the following sections
of the Illinois Vehicle Code:
   (A)   Article VI, 625 ILCS 5/6-100 et seq., thereof in its entirety;
   (B)   Chapter 13, 625 ILCS 5/13-100.1 et seq., inspection of vehicles,
including 625 ILCS 5/13-101 through 5/13-114;
   (C)   625 ILCS 5/1-114, 5/15-301 through 5/15-315, 5/15-101 through 5/15-113
and 5/1-125; and
   (D)   625 ILCS 5/16-102 through 5/16-105.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 70.04 NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operation of non-highway vehicles is hereby authorized on the
village streets from dawn until dusk, subject to the restrictions set forth in
this section.
   (B)   In order to be operated on the village streets, each non-highway
vehicle must have the following equipment: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires,
red reflectorized warning devices on the front and rear, a headlight that emits
a white light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front, a taillight
that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet to from the rear and
brake lights.
   (C)   When operated on a village street, the non-highway vehicle shall have
its headlight and tail lamps lighted as required by § 12-1201 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
   (D)   Any person who operates a non-highway vehicle on a village street
shall be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under Chapter 7,
Article 6 of the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/7-601 through 5/7-610.
A person shall not operate a non-highway vehicle upon any street of the village
unless he or she has a valid state driver’s license issued in his or her name
by the Secretary of State, or is otherwise accompanied by a legal guardian who
has a valid state driver’s license issued in his or her name by the Secretary
of State.
   (E)   Persons operating lawn mowers are exempt from the restrictions of this
section while moving from yard to yard in order to mow said yards.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 3-5-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES
§ 70.15 SNOW ROUTES ESTABLISHED; PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All streets located within the territorial limits of the village be
and they are hereby designated as snow routes.
   (B)   There shall be no parking on either side of any street designated as a
snow route within 24 hours after a two-inch snowfall has accumulated upon such
snow routes.
   (C)   Parking may be resumed on said snow routes as soon as final plowing,
as announced, has been completed on that street.
   (D)   Vehicles parking on snow routes in violation of this subchapter shall
be towed and may be reclaimed upon payment of any towing and storage fee, if
any.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.16 SIGNS AND DEVICES; PLACEMENT OF.
   The chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee be and is hereby
authorized and directed to place and establish signs and such other devices in
accordance with sound traffic engineering principles as are necessary to
implement and execute this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2)
§ 70.17 SNOW EMERGENCY DECLARED; NEWS RELEASE.
   The chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee is hereby authorized to
declare a snow emergency and to provide a news release to local media when two
inches of snowfall have accumulated or is expected and of the village’s intent
to remove snow on such snow routes and to tow vehicles which may be parked
thereon in violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Truck and oversized vehicles
§ 71.01 TRUCK AND OVERSIZED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park any motor vehicle which has a width greater than
seven feet, a height greater than eight feet or a length greater than 20 feet
or any second division vehicle licensed for an F classification or higher, as
defined by § 3-815 of the State Motor Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/3-815) upon any
residential street, alley or public way except for the purpose and time period
reasonably necessary to load and unload the same.
   (B)   The parking of detached trailers or detached semi-trailers is
prohibited on streets, alleys and public ways at any time.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 11-04, passed 8-4-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop and yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Speed limits within the village shall be 20 mph with the following
exceptions:
   (A)    Maple Street which shall be 30 mph;
   (B)   West Street which shall be 30 mph; and
   (C)   Illinois State Highway 48 which shall be 40 mph.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop streets.
 
Street                       Description                Ord. No. Date Passed
Lynn Street and High Street  Stop in all directions     01-05    11-5-2001
Lynn Street and North Street Stop in all directions     02-06    9- -2002
Oak Street                   Stop prior to turning onto 11-07    12-5-2011
                             North Street
 
   (B)   Yield intersections.
 
Street                       Description               Ord. No. Date Passed
                             Traffic eastbound and
Grove Street and Lynn Street westbound on Grove Street 19-01    2-4-2019
                             must yield
 
(Prior Code, § 8-1- 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   There shall be no parking on Maple Street at its corner with Chestnut Street
for a distance of 25 feet from the intersection north on Maple Street and from
the intersection south on Maple Street. Where parking is allowed on Maple
Street, there shall be angle parking only from Chestnut Street to Oak Street.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 10-10, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
91.   DOMESTIC ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE REGULATIONS
      
93.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment unlawful
   
90.03   Notification to Board of Trustees
   
90.04   Removal by towing service
   
90.05   Records to be kept
   
90.06   When identify of owner unknown
   
90.07   Notification of owner
   
90.08   Reclamation of vehicle
   
90.09   Public sale
   
90.10   Limit of vehicle custody
   
90.11   Report of transaction
   
90.12   Proceeds of sale
   
90.13   Village not held liable
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or
any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or other vehicle 25 years of age or
older.
   HIGHWAY. Any street, alley or public way within the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on
any highway in the village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in the village is unlawful except on property of the owner or
bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part
thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal by or
upon the order of the Village President, Fire Chief or Maintenance and Water
Superintendent after a waiting period of seven days or more has expired.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 NOTIFICATION TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the state, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Village
Board President when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the village.
Upon receipt of such notification, the Village President shall authorize a
towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely keep
the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3)
§ 90.04 REMOVAL BY TOWING SERVICE.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
village ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized by
order of the village.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the village.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the village, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing and storage costs.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4)
§ 90.05 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Village Clerk shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing
the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s
series name, body style, vehicle identification number and license plate year
and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and
hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for towing and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5)
§ 90.06 WHEN IDENTIFY OF OWNER UNKNOWN.
   (A)   When the Village Clerk does not know the identity of the registered
owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched by a directed communication to
the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   (B)   The Village Clerk will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information of the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be mailed to the owner
or legally entitled person by certified mail advising where the vehicle is
held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6)
§ 90.07 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of the
state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable, the
Village Clerk shall notify the State Police for the purpose of identifying the
vehicle’s owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police will be immediately
forwarded to the law enforcement agency or village officer having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7)
§ 90.08 RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Village President
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
§ 90.09 PUBLIC SALE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the village
officer having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the
Village Clerk shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent
by certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the village
or towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Village Clerk due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
§ 90.10 LIMIT OF VEHICLE CUSTODY.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein, or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this code without notice to the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. mail and public examination made by the State
Police for stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (2)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Village
President will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10)
§ 90.11 REPORT OF TRANSACTION.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the village is
reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the Village Clerk
for a period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11)
§ 90.12 PROCEEDS OF SALE.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is
authorized to be towed away by the Village President and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the
village treasury.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-12)
§ 90.13 VILLAGE NOT HELD LIABLE.
   Any police officer, village officer or other agents, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his or
her legal representative, or any other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or
disposed of as provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-13)
CHAPTER 91: DOMESTIC ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Cruelty to animals
   
91.04   Noises
   
91.05   Running at large
   
91.06   Impounded information
   
91.07   Pet waste pick-up and disposal
   
91.08   Exceptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect domestic animals from neglect and
abuse, to protect residents of the village from annoyance and injury by
animals, to assist in providing housing for domestic animals in the custody of
the village, to encourage responsible pet ownership, and provide for the
assessment of the penalties for violators and for the enforcement and
administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic ANIMAL other than human.
   OWNER. Any person who shelters, harbors, feeds, encourages or permits a
domestic animal to remain at, near or about his or her premises or living
quarters shall be defined the OWNER or keeper of such animal and responsible
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 91.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall cruelly treat any domestic animal in the village in
any way.
   (B)   Any person who inhumanely beats, underfeeds, overloads or abandons any
animals shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOISES.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor or keep in custody a dog which disturbs
the peace by barking, yelping, howling or making other loud noises to the
annoyance and/or discomfort of any person. Continuous barking, yelping, howling
and/or making other loud noises for 15 consecutive minutes by such dog, whether
confined inside a residence or building or to the outside area, shall be deemed
to have disturbed the peace and to have caused the annoyance and discomfort of
persons; provided, that at the time of the complaint, no person or persons were
trespassing or threatening to trespass upon the private property of the owner,
and provided that the dog was not being teased or provoked in any manner.
   (B)   Any person who shall allow any dog habitually to remain, be lodged or
fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or occupied by such
person shall be considered as harboring or keeping such dog.
   (C)   Upon an initial complaint, the Village Clerk shall warn the person in
writing of the violation. Upon a second such complaint within 30 days, the
enforcement officer shall charge the person with a violation of this section.
   (D)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to owners, operators or
employees of licensed veterinary hospitals, licensed kennels or licensed animal
boarding establishments, nor does this section apply to blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired persons when the dog serves as an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
No owner, keeper or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to annoy
or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate residences of
the municipality by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking or
making of any other unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such character,
intensity and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good order of the
municipality.
      (2)   Any person who shall allow any animal habitually to remain, be
lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned or
occupied by such person shall be considered as keeping or harboring such
animal.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit any domestic
animal to run at large within the village. Any domestic animal found upon any
public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed place shall be deemed
running at large unless such domestic animal is firmly held on a leash or is in
an enclosed vehicle.
   (B)   If any domestic animal shall be found upon the private premises of any
other person than the owner or keeper of such domestic animal, the domestic
animal shall be deemed running at large unless firmly held on a leash or in an
enclosed vehicle.
   (C)   A domestic animal is considered running at large when it is off or
outside the premises of its owner, unless it is controlled as follows:
      (1)   By a line or leash held by a competent person;
      (2)   At heel of a competent person; or
      (3)   The domestic animal is confined within a vehicle being driven,
parked or stopped.
   (D)   All domestic animals running at large in the village are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance and shall be apprehended and impounded and, if
not redeemed, destroyed.
   (E)   Any person inconvenienced or injured, or who may be in danger of being
injured, either in person or property, by reason of the unlawful running at
large in the village of any domestic animal contrary to this chapter or any
other village ordinance may take and drive such animal to the County Animal
Control.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 IMPOUNDING INFORMATION.
   Animals which are impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be kept in the enclosures established at the County Animal Control until
redeemed or otherwise disposed of. All fees are determined by the County Animal
Control.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 91.07 PET WASTE PICKUP AND DISPOSAL.
   It shall be the duty of each person who owns, possesses or controls a
domestic animal to immediately remove and dispose of any feces left by his or
her domestic animal on any sidewalk, street or other public area. It shall
further be the duty of each person who owns, possesses or controls a domestic
animal to immediately remove and dispose of any feces left by his or her
domestic animal on any private property neither owned nor occupied by said
person, unless said private property owner or occupant agrees otherwise.
Failure to properly dispose of feces will result in a nuisance violation as
provided elsewhere herein. Accusers must provide video evidence at the next
regularly scheduled, monthly Board meeting.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to service animals; dogs being used for hunting
or field trials, dogs being displayed or performing at dog shows; domestic
animals on the private property of others with the actual, implied, customary
or constructive consent of the owner of such premises; dogs while on federal,
state, village or county roads or highways while going to or coming from a hunt
or field trial or dog show site; bloodhounds used for tracking in conjunction
with police activities, dogs of the canine corps of any law enforcement agency;
or dogs for the military forces of the United States while being used for
official business.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a nuisance
violation. The violator will receive one warning letter, which must be
delivered by hand or by certified mail with a return receipt, before being
fined. Any further violation shall be punishable with a fine of not less than
$200 and not more than $500. Failure to pay fine will result with a lien being
put on their property.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 18-02, passed 3-5-2018)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Fire Prevention Code
   
92.02   Open burning
§ 92.01 FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the Fire Prevention Code, abbreviated edition, recommended by the
American Insurance Association, being particularly the most recent edition
thereof, and any amendments thereto, which Code has been and now is filed in
the office of the Clerk and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein, and the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1)
§ 92.02 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Grass, dry leaves; trimmings from trees and shrubs; and
tree limbs and branches, vines and the like. LANDSCAPE WASTE does not include
green trimmings or branches, or wet leaves.
      SMOLDER. To burn sluggishly without open flame producing smoke.
   (B)   Open burning is prohibited, except as herein provided.
   (C)   The open burning of garbage is strictly prohibited.
   (D)   The open burning of landscape waste is permitted under the following
conditions:
      (1)    On the premises on which such waste is generated;
      (2)   When atmospheric conditions will readily dissipate contaminants;
and
      (3)   If such burning does not create a visibility hazard on streets.
   (E)   Recreation fires, being fires used to entertain or cook, are
permitted, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Recreational fires may burn sticks, limbs, logs, charcoal, cooking
or camping fuel only.
      (2)   No recreational fire shall be burned during periods of high wind or
extreme drought.
      (3)   Recreational fires may not exceed an area dimension of six feet by
six feet.
      (4)   Garbage, trash, refuse, lumber, building materials or tires shall
not be burned in a recreational fire.
      (5)   Recreational fires shall be extinguished immediately upon direction
of fire personnel.
   (F)   Any open burning permitted under this section shall be attended by a
responsible adult.
   (G)   No open burning permitted under this section shall be allowed to
smolder.
   (H)   No open burning permitted under this section may be conducted on any
village street, roadway, alley or manhole cover.
   (I)   Any open burning permitted under this section shall be halted and
extinguished immediately upon direction of the Village President, Water
Superintendent, Fire Protection District Chief or their agents if they
determine that the open burning is being conducted in an illegal or unsafe
manner, or unsafe place, or constitutes a danger to surrounding property or
nearby structures, or which is creating unreasonable quantities of smoke. Any
person who fails or refuses to comply with such an order to halt or extinguish
the open burning shall be guilty of an offense.
(Ord. 10-14, passed 9-15-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Nuisances
   
93.01   Stables, pens and the like
   
93.02   Junk and waste
   
93.03   Cellar or vault
   
93.04   Privies
   
93.05   Obstruction of ditches; drains
   
93.06   Deposit of offensive matter
   
93.07   Depositing matter; slops
   
93.08   Depositing dead animals
   
93.09   Removal of dead animals from village
   
93.10   Obstructing streets
   
93.11   Excavation in streets
   
93.12   Unsafe scaffold
   
93.13   Signs and awnings; obstructing streets
   
93.14   Posting advertisements
   
93.15   Billboards
   
93.16   Barb wire; hedge fences
   
93.17   Swine in village
   
93.18   Junk; parts; machinery; motor vehicles; buildings; structures
   
93.19   Tents and secondary residences
   
93.20   Livestock and large animals
   
93.21   Notice; abatement of nuisances
   
93.22   Summary abatement
   
93.23   Lien
   
93.24   Foreclosure of lien
Weeds
   
93.35   Allowing weeds and grasses to grow
   
93.36   Notice
   
93.37   Summary abatement
   
93.38   Lien
   
93.39   Foreclosure of lien
NUISANCES
§ 93.01 STABLES, PENS AND THE LIKE.
   Whoever shall use, maintain or permit, within the village, any stable,
stall, pen, lot, place or premises under his or her control in which either
horses, cattle, hogs or other animals may be confined in such manner as to be
offensive or an annoyance to the community or any family or person shall be
deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 JUNK AND WASTE.
   Whoever shall suffer or permit to accumulate on any premises controlled by
him or her in the village any furniture, paint, hazardous waste, tires, manure
and animal waste or privy vault in any public street, alley or common, or upon
any sidewalk shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 CELLAR OR VAULT.
   Whoever shall permit or cause any cellar, vault, drain, pool, privy, sewer,
yard, ground or premises in the village belonging to or controlled by him or
her to become foul or offensive or dangerous to public health, or unpleasant to
adjacent residents or persons, shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 PRIVIES.
   When any privy or privy vault shall be in such condition that it is
offensive to any person in the vicinity thereof, the same shall be deemed a
nuisance and any owner or occupant of the premises upon which it is located who
fails or neglects to abate the same after being notified by a village officer,
or by any person aggrieved thereby so to do shall be punished according to the
provisions of this code for the first offense and for each day thereafter that
he or she shall permit such nuisance to continue.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 OBSTRUCTION OF DITCHES; DRAINS.
   Whoever shall, within the village, erect or maintain any obstruction in or
across any ditch or drain, sewer or tile so as to cause water to stand and
stagnate therein, or shall place therein any rubbish or offensive matter or
other material, or whoever shall dam up or obstruct any sewer, drain, gutter or
tile shall be punished according to the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5)
Cross-reference:
   Street and sidewalk obstructions, see §
94.07
§ 93.06 DEPOSIT OF OFFENSIVE MATTER.
   Whoever shall cause any foul substance to be discharged, placed or thrown,
or to overflow upon adjacent premises or public place, or shall allow or
permit, direct or suffer the same to be done by any person connected with the
premises under his or her control shall be guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 DEPOSITING MATTER; SLOPS.
   Whoever shall deposit upon any place, public or private, in the village,
enclosed or unenclosed, any vegetable or animal matter, slops or filth of any
kind likely to affect public health or to produce offensive odor, or shall
allow, permit or direct the same to be done by any person connected with the
premises under his or her control shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 DEPOSITING DEAD ANIMALS.
   Any person who shall place or deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited,
any dead animal or the remains thereof in the village shall be punished
according to the provisions of this code and shall be adjudged to pay all costs
of removing the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 93.09 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS FROM VILLAGE.
   When any dead animal shall be found in the village, it shall be the duty of
the owner or custodian thereof to remove the same forthwith beyond the limits
of the village and bury the same; and if such person upon being notified so to
do by a village officer, shall, after a reasonable time, neglect to remove and
bury the same as herein required, he or she shall be punished according to the
provisions of this code, and in addition thereto, shall be adjudged to pay the
reasonable expenses of removing and burying such animal, as provided for in §
93.08.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 93.10 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   All obstructions to streets, roads, alleys, crossings or sidewalks in the
village and all excavations in or under the same, which are prohibited by the
village code, or which may be made without lawful permission; and all fences,
gates and buildings across or in any street or alley which have existed and
been maintained heretofore for private use or convenience are declared to be
nuisances and the person erecting, keeping or maintaining any such obstruction
shall be punished according to the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.11 EXCAVATION IN STREETS.
   Whoever shall, within the village, dig or make any ditch, drain, excavation
or hole in, across or under any public street, road, alley, sidewalk or other
public place or shall cause the same to be done and shall not with all
reasonable speed refill the same and put it in as good condition as the same
was found; or whoever shall, during the existence of such ditch, drain,
excavation or hole, fail to have the same so watched, guarded and protected as
to ensure the safety of all persons or animals passing by or near the same
shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.12 UNSAFE SCAFFOLD.
   Whoever shall erect or use or cause to be erected or used, within the
village, any unsafe scaffold, whereby the safety of any person or persons
working thereon, or passing thereunder may be in danger therefrom, shall be
deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.13 SIGNS AND AWNINGS; OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   Whoever shall, within the village, suspend, keep or maintain any sign,
awning, goods, clothing or other structure or thing over or across any street,
alley or sidewalk, or any tree or shrub with branches overhanging the same in
such manner as to obstruct such street, alley or sidewalk, or to render travel
thereon inconvenient or unsafe; or whoever shall suffer any awning, sign or
structure over any street, alley or sidewalk to be out of repair, or in an
unsafe or insecure condition shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Street and sidewalk obstructions, see §
94.07
§ 93.14 POSTING ADVERTISEMENTS.
   The posting, pasting, sticking or placing any advertisement, handbills or of
any printed, pictured or written matter upon any house, wall, building, fence,
railing, sidewalk or other property, public or private, without permission of
the owner or person in charge thereof is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.15 BILLBOARDS.
   Whoever shall erect, keep or maintain any billboard, or board for
advertising, upon any place, public or private, the same being so erected as to
be dangerous or inconvenient to the public or to any family or individual
within the village shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 BARB WIRE; HEDGE FENCES.
   (A)   All barb wire fences adjacent to any street or alley or public place
within the village are hereby declared to be nuisances, and whoever shall erect
or maintain the same shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense; and whoever
shall permit any hedge fence along or upon or adjacent to any street or alley
in the village to become more than four feet in height, or shall permit the
boughs, limbs or sprouts of the same to extend beyond the inner edge of the
sidewalk or pavement shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to notify the owner or
occupant of premises bordering upon such street or alley where such wire or
hedge fence exists to abate the nuisance created thereby within 30 days from
the service of such notice, and unless such notice is obeyed, the same shall be
abated by said officer by removing such barb wire fence or cutting down such
hedge so as to abolish the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 SWINE IN VILLAGE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to keep any swine in any
enclosure within any part of the subdivided area of said village or within any
portion of village.
   (B)   Any person violating this section shall be deemed guilty of a petty
offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Livestock and large animals, see §
93.20
§ 93.18 JUNK; PARTS; MACHINERY; MOTOR VEHICLES; BUILDINGS; STRUCTURES.
   The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared to be
unlawful and prohibited:
   (A)   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building, any junk
parts, furniture, paint, hazardous wastes, tires, machinery or equipment not in
an operable condition, or motor vehicle not in an operable condition; provided,
however, that:
      (1)   This provision shall not apply to a junk yard licenses by the
village; and
      (2)   This provision shall not apply to junk, parts, machinery or
equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle in an operable
condition which is covered such that the type and condition of the same is
completely hidden from any public view.
   (B)   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building, two or more
vehicles, whether on public or private property, without current valid
registration and license plate properly displayed on the vehicle issued by the
Office of the Secretary of State; and
   (C)   To own, maintain or keep a building or structure so old, dilapidated
or out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary or otherwise unfit for
human use.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-18) (Ord. 02-05, passed 8-5-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 TENTS AND SECONDARY RESIDENCES.
   It shall be unlawful to occupy a tent in the village as a residence pursuant
to the following.
   (A)   No tent shall be occupied on public lands or street rights-of-way.
   (B)   No tent shall be erected on private property and occupied as a
residence.
   (C)   A residence shall not be constructed on a platted lot as a secondary
residence including, a tent, tiny house or shed.
   (D)   No dependent structures intended to be used as a residence shall be
located in the village.
   (E)   Exceptions to the above restrictions shall require the approval of the
corporate authorities.
   (F)   In the event the village enacts municipal zoning, these restrictions
shall be made applicable to any zoning code.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 11-14-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.20 LIVESTOCK AND LARGE ANIMALS.
   It is hereby declared that harboring the following animals within the
village limits in violation of this section is hereby declared a nuisance.
   (A)   Animals in village. Except as otherwise provided, no person shall keep
within the village limits any cattle, cows, horses, donkeys, mules or any
hybrid therefrom, sheep, swine, goats, ducks, turkeys, geese or other
livestock.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to include horses or any
hybrid therefrom, or goats that existed within the village limits on the
effective date of this section. Further, this section shall not apply to
rabbits, chickens or roosters.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 1-9-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 NOTICE; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Upon receipt of a report of violation of §
93.18, the President shall direct the Clerk to cause to be served a notice, in
writing, either by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, upon the owner and occupant of any lot, building, premises or item
of personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring them to abate the
same within ten days in such manner as the notice shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-19) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 93.22 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   If the persons so served and notified do not abate the nuisance within the
specific time, the Village Board, after reviewing the complaint and the facts
surrounding it may, by resolution, authorize an officer, employee or agent of
the village to abate such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-20) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 93.23 LIEN.
   Charges for the abatement of any nuisance shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid after it has been rendered, the
Village Clerk may, within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred, file
with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs
incurred and the date the nuisance was abated and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be either
personally served or sent by certified mail to the person to whom the tax bill
was sent for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year.
Provided, however, failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to
mail such notices, or the failure of the owners to receive such notices shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in §
93.24.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-21) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 93.24 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall be
sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting the costs of sale, as in the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name
of the village. The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-22) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
WEEDS
§ 93.35 ALLOWING WEEDS AND GRASSES TO GROW.
   Whoever shall permit or allow any Canada Thistle, bull thistle, burdock,
yellow dock, jimpson weed, poison ivy, ragweed or any other noxious or
pestiferous weed or grasses to grow on any premises under control or occupied
by him or her shall be deemed guilty of maintaining a nuisance. It is hereby
made the duty of all persons owning any real estate within the village to cut
and destroy all such noxious and pestiferous weeds or grasses before the same
shall mature their seed and to keep such noxious and pestiferous weed or
grasses cut and destroyed so that the same may not constitute a fire hazard, a
cover for offensive matter or create an unsightly condition. Grass or weeds
which reach a height of seven inches constitute a fire hazard, a cover for
offensive matter or create an unsightly condition. Whoever shall violate any of
the provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 05-02, passed 5-2-2005)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.36 NOTICE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a report of violation of §
93.35, the President shall direct the Clerk to cause to be served a notice, in
writing, either by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the principal entrance of
the dwelling, upon the owner and occupant of any lot, building, premises or
item of personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists requiring them to abate
the same within ten days in such manner as the notice may direct. The notice
shall contain a description of the location of the property upon which such
condition exists.
   (B)   Where notice is given by registered or certified mail, the depositing
of such notice in the United States mail by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the address
shown on the latest ad valorem tax return of such owner for such property shall
constitute sufficient service of such notice, where the return receipt shall be
duly returned signed by the addressee or someone residing on the premises, or
where the return receipt or other notification from the federal postal service
indicates that the notice was refused, or that there was a refusal to sign the
return receipt or that delivery of the notice at such address could not be
made.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2017-, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 93.37 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If the persons so served and notified do not abate the nuisance within
ten days of receipt of the notice required in §
93.36, the Village Ordinance Committee will issue the owner of the property a
final notice to abate to remove such excess growth within 15 days from the date
of the notice. Such notice may be served personally, or may be served by
registered or certified mail, or by attaching a copy of the notice to the
principal entrance of the dwelling, and shall contain a description of the
location of the property upon which such condition exists. Upon the failure to
comply within the required time as given in the final notice to abate by the
owner of the property when properly notified pursuant thereof, the village is
authorized to enter, or have the contractor enter upon the property, to
remediate the nuisance.
   (B)   Following abatement, the Village Clerk shall promptly send to the
owner of the property a statement of account, which shall include the cost of
the abatement of the nuisance including, but not limited to, the cost of
cutting the vegetation and all associated administrative and inspection fees
demanding payment thereon and before a date named in such demand, which shall
not be earlier than 15 days nor later than 45 days after the date on the
statement of account. All statements will incur a minimum two-hour fee of $75
per hour for general labor, $175 per hour for heavy machinery and the going
hourly rate plus a 15% administrative fee for any contractors hired by the
village to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   If payment for abatement shall not have been made on or before the
date named, the Village Clerk shall issue a notice directed to the owner of the
property, notifying such owner that a property lien will be executed to recover
the costs of repair, demolition or other abated nuisances. Additional fees will
be added equal to the actual legal costs incurred and the actual recording fees
incurred by the village for filing costs.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 2017-, passed 7-24-2017)
§ 93.38 LIEN.
   Charges for the abatement of any nuisance shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid after it has been rendered, the
Village Clerk may, within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred, file
with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement
shall contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs
incurred and the date the nuisance was abated and a notice that the village
claims a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be either
personally served or sent by certified mail to the person to whom the tax bill
was sent for the general taxes on the property for the last preceding year;
provided, however, failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to
mail such notices, or the failure of the owners to receive such notices shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as provided in §
93.39.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
§ 93.39 FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   Property subject to a lien for unpaid nuisance abatement charges shall be
sold for non-payment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting the costs of sale, as in the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name
of the village. The Village Attorney is authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5) (Ord. 00-, passed 6-5-2000)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Permit required
   
94.02   Construction of sidewalks
   
94.03   Material
   
94.04   Dangerous walks
   
94.05   Concrete sidewalks
   
94.06   Private construction; report
   
94.07   Obstructions
   
94.08   Barricades
   
94.09   Excavations
   
94.10   Moving buildings
§ 94.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or lay any sidewalk upon
any of the streets and alleys in the village without first having obtained
permission from the President and Board of Trustees to construct or lay the
same, according to the provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 CONSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   When any person directly interested shall make application to the President
and Board of Trustees for the construction of any sidewalk upon any of the
streets of the village, the President and Board may order the construction of
the same under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets, of such
material and such width as they may direct. The cost of the material and the
expense incurred in the construction of such sidewalk shall be paid by the
party applying for the same, unless otherwise ordered by the President and
Board; provided, that when the party applying for such sidewalk shall desire
the same to be over six feet in width, the President and Board may so order, if
the party applying therefor shall agree to pay all necessary expense incurred
thereby, and enter into an obligation to keep such additional width of sidewalk
in good condition and repair, without any expense to the village so long as
said sidewalk shall remain in use, and well and truly keep said village free
from all harm, damages and costs of suits, actions, judgments and executions
that shall or may at any time arise, come or be brought against the village on
account of any accident that may occur to any person by reason of said portion
of said sidewalk being out of repair or in a dangerous condition at any time
hereafter.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 94.03 MATERIAL.
   All sidewalks hereafter constructed in any portion of the village shall be
composed of concrete and shall be of such width as shall be determined by
resolution of the President and Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 94.04 DANGEROUS WALKS.
   Whenever it is brought to the notice of the President of the village or to
the Superintendent of Streets, that any sidewalk or part thereof in the village
has become dangerous to the public safety, he or she shall cause the same to be
immediately repaired or removed and report such action to the next meeting of
the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 94.05 CONCRETE SIDEWALKS.
   All concrete sidewalks hereafter constructed in the village shall be in
accordance with the specifications furnished by the Clerk as furnished by the
Board of Trustees, and when any person shall enter into any contract for the
construction of concrete sidewalks within the village, before entering upon the
performance of the same, he or she shall file with the Clerk a bond in the
penal sum of $300 with good and sufficient security, to be approved by the
Clerk, conditioned that such sidewalk shall be constructed in accordance with
the plans and specifications furnished by the Clerk, and that such sidewalks
shall be by him or her kept in good condition and repair for the period of one
year after the completion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 94.06 PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION; REPORT.
   When any person shall obtain permission to construct any sidewalk within the
village, as hereinbefore provided, he or she shall construct the same under the
direction and supervision of the Street and Alley Committee, and according to
the plans and specifications furnished him or her by the Clerk, and when such
sidewalk is completed, he or she shall apply to the Street and Alley Committee
for their acceptance of the same, and if the Street and Alley Committee shall
refuse to accept the same, he or she shall report to the Board of Trustees the
amount of sidewalk so constructed, the material composing the same and the
manner in which it has been constructed, for their acceptance or rejections,
and if the President and Board of Trustees refuse to accept the same, he or she
shall proceed at once to rebuild it according to the plans and specifications
furnished by the Clerk. If he or she shall refuse or neglect to rebuild such
sidewalk as herein provided, and such sidewalk is in a dangerous condition or
constructed contrary to any of the provisions of this code relating to
sidewalks, the Superintendent of Streets shall remove or rebuild the same as
the President and Board of Trustees may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 94.07 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, throw or have or cause to be
placed any obstruction in or upon any sidewalk within the village except as
authorized by any of the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, change or alter any barricade
or sign which has been placed upon any street or other place in the village by
the village, its officers or employees, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to drive or operate any motor vehicle or any other type of a vehicle on any
street or any other place in the village, which street or place has been closed
for traffic or for any person to walk or go upon any street or to lead or drive
any horse or other animal upon any street or place within the village which has
been closed for traffic.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   No person not authorized by the President of the Board of Trustees of the
village shall make any excavations or do any plowing in any street or alley or
public grounds in the village at any time.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.10 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall remove or cause to be removed, any building through or along
any street or alley in the village without permission of the President and
Board of Trustees of the village first obtained therefor.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSING GENERALLY
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
112.   BILLIARDS, POOL HALLS AND THE LIKE
      
113.   JUNK DEALERS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSING GENERALLY
Section
   
110.01   Applications
   
110.02   Contents of
   
110.03   Records kept by Clerk
   
110.04   Limitation; bond; non-assignable
   
110.05   Subject to ordinances
   
110.06   License fees not to be modified
   
110.07   License authorization
   
110.08   License non-transferable
§ 110.01 APPLICATIONS.
   All licenses shall be granted under the ordinances of the village, in the
manner and upon the conditions thereinafter provided, and not otherwise. Any
person desiring a license to conduct any proper business within the corporate
limits of the village shall make application therefor in writing to the Village
Clerk signed by the applicant, and shall state therein the purpose and time for
which license is desired and the place (giving the number of the building, if
it be numbered), the number of the block and lot on which the same is located
and the name of the street on which such building fronts and where the business
is to be conducted. Upon presentations of said application to said Clerk, the
license shall be issued upon the payment by the applicant of the sum provided
by ordinance for such license; provided, that all applications for billiard,
pool room, ten-pin or bowling alley licenses shall be made directly to the
Board of Trustees, but such application may be filed with the Village Clerk
pending the meeting of said Board and be presented thereto at its next meeting.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
§ 110.02 CONTENTS OF.
   Every license issued shall contain the full name of the person to whom it is
issued, the kind of business authorized, the time covered by said license and
where the business is to be conducted, the number of the building, if it be
numbered, the number of the block and lot and the name of the street on which
the building fronts and be signed by the Village Clerk and President under the
village seal. No such license shall protect the holder thereof beyond the
express terms of said license. Every person holding a license or purporting to
hold the same either from the state or village authorities shall, upon demand,
exhibit either or both of them at any proper time to any officer of the
village.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 110.03 RECORDS KEPT BY CLERK.
   It is hereby made the duty of the Village Clerk to record in a suitable book
to be provided for that purpose all licenses issued, entering therein the name
of the person licensed, the date of license, the purpose for which granted,
date of expiration, amount paid, name of surety on bond and such book shall
also have a blank space for remarks.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 110.04 LIMITATION; BOND; NON-ASSIGNABLE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for a period longer than from its date to
and including April 30 next following, and where, in any case a bond is
required, the Clerk shall take and approve the same unless otherwise specially
provided by ordinance. No license shall be transferable where any bond or
forfeiture is involved, nor shall any license in which such bond or forfeiture
is not involved be transferred or assigned to any other person than that
therein named without the consent of the Board, and such consent shall be
granted only at a regular meeting of said Board.
   (B)   No license shall be held to authorize any licensee to conduct any
other business than the one so specified.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 110.05 SUBJECT TO ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Every license so granted shall be held subject to all ordinances now
or hereafter in force and to all police regulations then and hereafter
enforced, unless otherwise specially provided, and shall be subject to
revocation in the discretion of the Board at any time on refunding the price
paid for the unexpired term of such license.
   (B)   On conviction of any person holding any license of a violation of any
ordinance of the village, the Board may, in its discretion, declare such
license forfeited without refunding any portion of the price so paid. The
conditions specified in this section shall be made a part of every license
granted and issued under the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE FEES NOT TO BE MODIFIED.
   It is hereby provided that the fee or sum to be paid for any license under
this title shall not be rescinded or modified or changed from the sum specified
in the provisions of this title in relation thereto by any village officer,
except as otherwise provided in §
113.03; provided, that the Board of Trustees may, by ordinance, repeal or
modify any section specifying such fee to be paid for such license and
providing some other fee in lieu thereof. It is further hereby provided that
any village officer or officers who shall cause a license to be issued for a
less sum than that specified in this title shall be deemed guilty of a
violation of the provisions of this code and also of malfeasance in office and
shall be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 LICENSE AUTHORIZATION.
   All licenses and permits issued under the provisions of this title shall be
issued only upon the authority and direction of the Board of Trustees by the
Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-7)
§ 110.08 LICENSE NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   No license or permit authorized or issued under the provisions of this title
shall be assignable or transferable. Any license or permit granted may be
revoked by the Board of Trustees whenever it shall be satisfied that the person
licensed or permitted has violated any of the provisions of this code or the
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-8)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Purpose
   
111.002   Intent
   
111.003   Definitions
   
111.004   Consumption; unlicensed premises
   
111.005   Storage; unlicensed premises
   
111.006   Use of premises after revocation
   
111.007   Refill original package
   
111.008   Access from licenses premises
   
111.009   Sanitary conditions
   
111.010   Employees
   
111.011   Political contributions
   
111.012   Peddling
   
111.013   Civil rights in licensed premises
   
111.014   Payment at time of sale
   
111.015   Building Code
   111.016   Gambling devices on premises
Liquor Commission
   
111.030   Local Liquor Control Commission
   
111.031   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.032   Clerk of the Commission
   
111.033   Powers of Commission
   
111.034   Quorum
   
111.035   Hearing to suspend or revoke license
   
111.036   Appeal from order of Commission
Licenses
   
111.050   License required
   
111.051   Class of license
   
111.052   License fees
   
111.053   Disposition of license fees
   
111.054   License fee provisions and term
   
111.055   Application
   
111.056   Persons ineligible to license
   
111.057   License to be issued
   
111.058   Hours
   
111.059   Restricted areas
   
111.060   Possess only one license
   
111.061   Renew license
   
111.062   Displaying license
   
111.063   Transfer of license
   
111.064   Change of location
   
111.065   Record of license
   
111.066   Location restrictions
   
111.067   Premises where majority minors
Minors
   
111.080   Sales to mental incompetents
   
111.081   Sales to minors; alcoholic liquor
   
111.082   Sales and gifts to minors
   
111.083   Present proof of age
   
111.084   Warning to minors
Procedures
   
111.095   Licensee convicted
   
111.096   Knowledge of act by employee
   
111.097   Employee be convicted
   
111.098   Owner of premises permitting violation
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall be liberally construed to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the people of the village shall be protected, and temperance in
the consumption of alcoholic liquor shall be fostered and promoted by sound,
and careful control and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic
liquors.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.002 INTENT.
   No person shall manufacture, bottle, sell, blend, barter, transport,
deliver, furnish or possess any alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes, except
as specifically provided in this chapter; provided, however nothing herein
contained shall prevent the possession, transportation and storage of alcoholic
liquor for personal use of the possessor, his or her family and guests nor
prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic liquor by a person from
fruits, vegetables or grains, or the products thereof by simple fermentation
and without distillation, if it is made solely for the use of the maker, his or
her family and his or her guests; and provided further that nothing herein
contained shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or dentist from
possession or using alcoholic liquor in the strict practice of his or her
profession, or any hospital, nursing home or other institution caring for sick
and diseased persons, from possessing and using alcoholic liquor for the
treatment of bona fide patients of such hospital, nursing home or other
institution; and provided further, that any drug store employing a licensed
pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic liquor in the concoction of
prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and provided further, that the
possession and dispensation of wine by an authorized representative of any
church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite or religious ceremony
conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes
synthetic ethyl ALCOHOL. It does not include denatured ALCOHOL or wood ALCOHOL.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-1)
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
      (1)   The four varieties of liquor defined, alcohol, spirits, wine and
beer, and every liquor or solid patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits,
wine or beer, and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the alcohol
contained in flavoring extracts, syrups, toilet preparations or food products
unfit for beverage purposes.
      (3)   None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended
for use and used by any church or religious organization for sacramental
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-5)
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, BEER, ale, stout, lager BEER, porter and the like.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-4)
   CIVIC ORGANIZATION. An association or a corporation organized under the laws
of the state, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some
community objective other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors;
provided, that such CIVIC ORGANIZATION files with the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter a
copy of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly files
within ten days of the election of any additional member, his or her name and
address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted
by a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the
members at their annual meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or
employee of the CIVIC ORGANIZATION is paid, or directly or indirectly receives,
in the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution
or sale of alcoholic liquor to the CIVIC ORGANIZATION or the members of the
CIVIC ORGANIZATION or its guests, introduced by members beyond the amount of
such salary as may be fixed and voted any annual meeting by the members or by
its board of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue or
the CIVIC ORGANIZATION.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of the state of, not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its
members through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a
building or space in a building, of such extent in character as may be suitable
and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests; provided, that such CLUB files with the Local Liquor
Control Commission at the time of its application for a license under this
chapter a copy of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten days of the election of any additional member, his or her name
and address; provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting, and that no member or other officer, agent or employee
of the CLUB is paid, directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or
other compensation any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the CLUB or the members of the CLUB or its guests, introduced by
members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the CLUB.
   DRAM SHOP ACT. 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., approved January 31, 1934, with
amendments.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-15)
   LICENSE. A written or printed permit issued by the Local Liquor Control
Commission, to engage in the retail sale of alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-11)
   LICENSEE. Any person, firm, corporation or partnership receiving a license
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-12)
   LIQUOR COMMISSION. The Local Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-13)
   LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER. The member of the Local Liquor Control
Commission who is charged with the administration of the Dram Shop Act, being
235 ILCS 5/6-21, and this code relating to the retail sale of alcoholic liquor;
and provided further, that when in this chapter the LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL
COMMISSIONER shall be referred to, it shall include the committee appointed by
the LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-14)
   OPERATOR. Any person or all persons who own, are engaged in or conduct a
business.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-16)
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed
and labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey
any alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-6)
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where meals are served; anywhere meals are regularly
served without sleeping accommodation, such space being provided with adequate
and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed
there in a sufficient number in kind of employees to prepare, to cook and serve
suitable food for its guests.
   RETAILER. A person who sells or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-7)
   SALE. Any transfer or exchange with or without consideration, and includes
all SALES made by any person, whether principal proprietor, agent, servant or
employee.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-9)
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. For use or consumption and not for resale
in any form.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-8)
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-2)
   TO SELL. To keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-10)
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits.
(Prior Code, § 9-2-3)
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.004 CONSUMPTION; UNLICENSED PREMISES.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public property or in any automobile or vehicle traveling upon or
parked on any street, alley or public property; nor shall any person bring any
alcoholic liquor, in any form, into any dining room of any hotel, restaurant,
club or place where lunches are served, or where soft drinks are sold or a soda
fountain is operated or into any public place for consumption, or use alcoholic
liquor for mixing with or spiking any other beverage whatsoever; no operator or
employee thereof, shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor on the
premises of any establishment inviting public patronage, unless the premises
are specifically licensed for consumption.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
Cross-reference:
   Consumption of alcohol by minors, see §§
111.080 through
111.084
§ 111.005 STORAGE; UNLICENSED PREMISES.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be kept or stored upon any premises other than the
premises used as an establishment licensed to sell alcoholic liquor under the
provisions of this chapter and provided that nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the possession of alcoholic liquor for personal use by the
occupants of apartments or dwelling rooms in the same building not directly
accessible from the said licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.006 USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION.
   When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, and for the period
of one year thereafter, no license shall be granted to any person, to conduct
the business of selling alcoholic liquor upon the premises described in such
revoked license.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-3) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.007 REFILL ORIGINAL PACKAGE.
   No person licensed herein to sell alcoholic liquor at retail, shall fill or
refill in whole or in part, any original package of alcoholic liquor with the
same or any other kind or quality of alcoholic liquor, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to have in his or her possession for sale at retail any bottles,
casks or other containers containing alcoholic liquor except in original
packages.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-4) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.008 ACCESS FROM LICENSES PREMISES.
   No alcoholic liquor shall be sold at retail upon any premises which has any
access from such premises to any other portion of the same building which is
kept for and leased to the public as dwelling quarters. This provision shall
not apply to hotels or connecting apartments used only by the licensee, his or
her family and personal guests.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-5) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.009 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, or for the
storage of such liquor for such sale shall be in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be kept in full compliance with the laws regulating the condition of
premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-7) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.010 EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the sale at retail
of alcoholic liquor, any person who is afflicted with or who is a carrier of
any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it shall be unlawful for
any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease to work in or
about the premises or to engage in any way in the handling, preparation or
distribution of such liquor.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-8) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.011 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee, where more than 5% of the licensee’s
gross income is derived from the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any officer,
associate, representative, agent or employee of such licensee to become liable
for, pay or make any contribution directly or indirectly toward the campaign
fund or expenses of any political party or candidate for public office or for
nomination of any candidate for any public office or for nomination of any
candidate for any public office.
   (B)   Any licensee who violates, or permits or suffers any officer,
associate, representative, agent or employee to violate any of the provisions
of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, in addition to other penalties
provided, shall be fined at set forth in §
111.999
(Prior Code, § 9-6-9) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.012 PEDDLING.
   It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-10) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.013 CIVIL RIGHTS IN LICENSED PREMISES.
   No licensee licensed herein shall deny or permit his or her agents and
employees to deny any person the full and equal enjoyment of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities and privileges of any premises licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor subject only to the conditions and limitations
established by law and applicable to all citizens.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-11) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.014 PAYMENT AT TIME OF SALE.
   Each retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon premises licensed herein, shall be
made and payment received by the licensee or employee of such licensee at the
time of sale.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-12) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.015 BUILDING CODE.
   Every place licensed under this chapter for the consumption of alcoholic
liquor on the premises shall meet all applicable building codes.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-13) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
LIQUOR COMMISSION
§ 111.030 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a Local Liquor Control Commission consisting of the
President and the Board of Trustees of the village.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
Cross-reference:
   President and Board of Trustees, see
Chapter 30
   Village Clerks; powers and duties, see §§ 32.040 through 32.051
§ 111.031 LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   The President shall be the Local Liquor Control Commissioner and is hereby
charged with the administration of the Dram Shop Act, 235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.,
this chapter and such ordinances and resolutions relating to the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor as may be enacted by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.032 CLERK OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Village Clerk shall be the clerk of the Local Liquor Control Commission,
who shall keep a record of all proceedings, transactions, communications and
official acts of the Commission, and who shall be custodian of all records and
perform such other duties as the Commission may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.033 POWERS OF COMMISSION.
   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall have the following powers,
functions and duties with respect to licenses issued by the Commission:
   (A)   To grant all licenses as provided in §§
111.050 through
111.067 to persons, firms, corporations, partnerships or clubs for premises
within its jurisdiction;
   (B)   To receive license fees and pay them forthwith to the Village Clerk;
   (C)   To receive complaints from any citizen within its jurisdiction, that
any provisions of the Dram Shop Act, being 235 ILCS 5/6-21, this chapter or
such ordinances and resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, have been or are
being violated and to act upon such complaints in the proper manner;
   (D)   (1)   To examine or cause to be examined under oath, any applicant for
a license or for a renewal thereof or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine or cause to be
examined the books and records of any such applicant or licensee, to hear
testimony and take proof for its information in the performance of its duties,
and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this state.
      (2)   For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the
Local Liquor Control Commissioner, under this section, he or she may authorize
his or her agent to act on his or her behalf;
   (E)   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter, at any time,
upon any premises licensed herein to determine whether any provisions of the
Dram Shop Act or this chapter have been or are being violated, and at such time
to examine said premises of such licensee in connection therewith;
   (F)   To suspend for not more than 30 days, or revoke any license issued
under this chapter for any one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Conviction under the laws of the United States, the laws of state
or any ordinances of the village;
      (2)   Knowingly, permitting without protest, any violation of this
chapter, or any disorderly or immoral practice upon the premises licensed
herein;
      (3)   The willful making of any false statement as to a material fact in
the application for license; or
      (4)   Failure of the licensee for any cause whatsoever to operate and
maintain a place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to
the purpose for which the license was issued.
   (G)   To adopt such reasonable rules and regulations as may be deemed
necessary, by the Commission, for the performance of the duties herein
provided.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.034 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum to transact business
and every act of a majority of the members of the Commission shall be deemed to
be the act of the Commission; and provided that whenever a question before said
Commission shall result in a tie, no further action may be taken, and said
question shall remain unresolved until, and in no other manner, said question
shall be reconsidered by all the members of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.035 HEARING TO SUSPEND OR REVOKE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receiving complaint that a licensee is in violation, the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner shall at once investigate and finding such licensee
in violation may suspend or revoke his or her license. However, prior to the
suspension or revocation of said license, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner, in person, shall serve upon the licensee a written notice to
appear within three days before the Local Liquor Control Commission at a public
hearing affording such licensee the opportunity to defend.
   (B)   All evidence in support of the complaint of violation shall be
presented by the Village Attorney, and said licensee then may present evidence
in his or her own defense.
   (C)   The Clerk of the Commission shall keep and maintain an official record
of the proceedings, and at the close of the hearing, the Local Liquor Control
Commission shall reach a decision and within five days, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner, in person, shall serve a written notice of the decision
upon the licensee. In the event it is determined that the license be suspended
or revoked, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in person, shall also serve
a written order of suspension or revocation stating the reason or reasons for
such action, and the duration thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.036 APPEAL FROM ORDER OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   After receiving an order of suspension or revocation, a licensee shall
have the privilege, within 20 days, of appeal to the State Liquor Control
Commission for a decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the order of the
Local Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   If the State Liquor Control Commission affirms the Local Liquor
Control Commission’s order to suspend or revoke the license at the first
hearing, the licensee shall cease to engage in business for which the license
was issued until the order of the Local Liquor Control Commission is terminated
by its own provisions or reversed upon rehearing or by the courts.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
LICENSES
§ 111.050 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, corporation or partnership shall sell, display or offer for
sale at retail in the village any alcoholic liquor unless he, she or they shall
first apply for and obtain from the Local Liquor Control Commission, a license
to do so, and alcoholic liquor shall not be sold in violation of the provisions
of the said license.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.051 CLASS OF LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall issue no class of license other
than the following.
   (A)   Class A package license. A Class A license shall permit the licensee
to sell at retail alcoholic liquor in the original package and not for
consumption on the premises by the drink where it is sold; not more than three
such licenses may be issued.
   (B)   Class B club license. A Class B license shall be issued only to clubs
as defined in §
111.003 and shall permit the licensee to sell any and all liquor by the drink
and not in package, for the consumption on the premises where it is sold, to
members thereof in good standing and guests accompanied by members; not more
than two such licenses may be issued.
   (C)   Class C restaurant license. A Class C license shall permit the
licensee to sell any and all alcoholic liquor by the drink and not and not in
package, and only in premises whose primary business is the serving of meals to
the public, for consumption on the premises where it is sold; said licenses
shall be issued only to the operator of the restaurant as defined in §
111.003; not more than three such licenses shall be issued.
   (D)   Class D festival license. A Class D license shall be issued only to
civic organizations as defined in §
111.003 and shall permit the licensees to sell alcoholic liquor by the drink
and not in package for consumption on the premises where it is sold; not more
than one such license may be issued at a time.
   (E)   Class E combo license. Any holder of a Class B or Class C license may
also apply for a combo license which shall allow the licensee to sell retail
alcoholic liquor in the original package and not for consumption on the
premises by the drink where it is sold; not more than five such licenses may be
issued.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.052 LICENSE FEES.
   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall receive from each license
applicant and license renewal applicant as the case may be, the following
annual license fee:
 
Class A $500
Class B $250
Class C $500
Class D $150
Class E $250 (in addition to underlying license fees)
 
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.053 DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES.
   The Clerk of the Commission shall take custody of all license fees, and in
the event the license is denied the license fee shall be returned to the
applicant, such fees as are retained by the village, shall be forthwith turned
over to the Clerk and deposited in the general corporate fund or in such other
fund as the Village Board may direct.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.054 LICENSE FEE PROVISIONS AND TERM.
   License fees shall be paid annually, and after the issuance of a license, no
license fee or part of such fee shall be refunded, and provided further that no
license shall be valid unless the annual fee is fully paid in advance; licenses
to sell alcoholic liquor shall be for a term not to exceed one years and all
licenses shall expire on April 30 after the date of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.055 APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a license from the Local Liquor Control Commission shall
submit to the Commission an application, using a form provided by said
Commission, which shall be in writing, under oath, signed by the applicant, and
shall include sufficient payment of fees to satisfy such license, said
application shall contain the following information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in case of a co-partnership, the person entitled to share in the
profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club, the
date of incorporation, the object for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the
name and address of such person;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The character of and the length of time, said applicant has been in
business, and the amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time of
application;
   (D)   The location and description of the premises which is to be operated
under such license;
   (E)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for another
license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
   (F)   A statement whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony;
   (G)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof or by
the federal government has been revoked; if so, the reason therefor;
   (H)   A statement that he or she will not violate any of the laws of the
state, of the United States or the village, in the conduct of his or her
business; and
   (I)   The applicant shall also submit his or her fingerprints with any
application or renewal thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.056 PERSONS INELIGIBLE TO LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commission shall issue no license of any kind to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is the
keeper of a house of ill fame;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (G)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license under a first
application;
   (H)   A co-partnership, unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain a license. (The Liquor Commission may, in its
discretion, issue a license to an applicant pending the receipt of the results
of the criminal records background check with regard to the applicant’s
fingerprints and other information submitted by the applicant. If, subsequent
to the issuance of the liquor license, it is discovered by the Liquor
Commission that the applicant does not qualify for such a license, the license
shall be summarily terminated);
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the village;
   (J)   A corporation unless it is incorporated in the state, or a foreign
corporation unless it is qualified to transact business in the state;
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee;
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to the passage of the Dram Shop Act, being 235 ILCS 5/6-21, or has
forfeited his or her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation;
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued;
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the Local
Liquor Control Commission, the Village President or any member of the Village
Board; and no such official shall be interested directly in the manufacture,
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
   (O)   A person who is not the owner of the business to be operated by the
licensee, except as provided in division (K) above;
   (P)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
the Criminal Code of 2012, being 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq., as amended; or
   (Q)   Any person, co-partnership, any partner of said co-partnership or any
officer, manager, director or stockholder owning 20% of any corporation, or any
premises licensed hereunder, shall have been issued a federal gaming device
stamp or a federal wagering stamp for the current tax period.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.057 LICENSE TO BE ISSUED.
   Each and every license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail in the village, as
provided by §
111.051, shall be issued by the Local Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-8) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Class of license, see §
111.051
   Records of license, see §
110.03
§ 111.058 HOURS.
   Alcoholic liquor may be sold or offered for sale at retail in or upon the
licensed premises between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. on the days
Monday through Saturday, and between the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. on
Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-9) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.059 RESTRICTED AREAS.
   No premises within the village shall be licensed by the Local Liquor Control
Commission in violation of the county zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-10) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.060 POSSESS ONLY ONE LICENSE.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or club who possesses a valid
license to sell alcoholic liquor shall apply for or be issued any other class
of license by the Local Liquor Control Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-11) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.061 RENEW LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and provided
further that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed
as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the Village Board from
decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-12) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.062 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be framed and hung in plain
view in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-13) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.063 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one
year after issuance, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject
to attachment, garnishment or execution nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided that executors or administrators
of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the Trustee of any insolvent or
bankrupt licensee when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor under
order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of the deceased
or insolvent or bankrupt license until the expiration of such licensee but not
longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-14) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.064 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A liquor license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only upon the
premises described in the application and license and such location may be
changed only upon written permit to do so by the Local Liquor Control
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-15) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.065 RECORD OF LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep, or cause to be kept, a
record of all retailers licenses issued by the village and deliver to the
Village Clerk a duplicate thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-16) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.066 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No licenses shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon any
premises within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital or nursing home for
aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their spouse and children; provided
that this restriction shall not apply to clubs, restaurants, food shops or
other places of business established prior to the taking effect of this
chapter, where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-17) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.067 PREMISES WHERE MAJORITY MINORS.
   No license shall be issued for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor upon the
premises on any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks for such
minors.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-18) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
MINORS
§ 111.080 SALES TO MENTAL INCOMPETENTS.
   No licensee or employee of any licensee shall sell, barter or give any
alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person, or to any person known by him or
her to be a habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally
deficient or in need of mental treatment.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.081 SALES TO MINORS; ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
   No licensee or employee of any licensee shall sell, barter or give away
alcoholic liquor as defined in §
111.003 to any person under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.082 SALES AND GIFTS TO MINORS.
   No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall
sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person herein described,
except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-3) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.083 PRESENT PROOF OF AGE.
   If a licensee or employee of any licensee believes or has reason to believe
that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the non-
age of the prospective recipient, the licensee or employee shall, before making
such sale or delivery, demand presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-4) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.084 WARNING TO MINORS.
   Upon every premises licensed herein to sell alcoholic liquor, there shall be
displayed in a prominent place, a printed card, which shall be supplied by the
Clerk of the Local Liquor Control Commission and, which shall read
substantially as follows:
      “WARNING TO MINORS
   You are subject to a fine up to $500 under the ordinances of the Village of
Weldon if you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the
purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor”.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-5) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
PROCEDURES
§ 111.095 LICENSEE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter,
the license of said licensee may at the discretion of the Local Liquor Control
Commission, be revoked and all fees paid thereon shall be forfeited, and it
shall thereafter be unlawful and shall constitute a further violation of this
chapter for said licensee to continue to operate under said license.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-1) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.096 KNOWLEDGE OF ACT BY EMPLOYEE.
   Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, agent, manager or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee, and said licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if said
act or omission had been done or omitted by him or her personally.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-2) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.097 EMPLOYEE BE CONVICTED.
   Whenever any agent, manager or other employee in a position of authority of
any licensee shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter while engaged
in the course of their employment and said violation was committed without the
knowledge or approval of the licensee, said violation shall be deemed and held
to be the act of the employee alone.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-3) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
§ 111.098 OWNER OF PREMISES PERMITTING VIOLATION.
   If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right of possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said premises licensed
herein, in violation of the provisions of this chapter, said owner, agent or
other person shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the
extent as said licensee, and be subject to the same punishment.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-4) (Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter with respect to
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, maintenance of the licensed premises or
any other provisions of this chapter; and if no other penalty shall be
provided, shall upon conviction thereof for a first offense be guilty of a
petty offense and fined not less than $100 and for a second or subsequent
conviction be fined not less than $400, and each day in which such violation
shall exist, it shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-7-6)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
111.011 shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $500 and the Local
Liquor Commission shall revoke his or her license.
      (2)   Any other person violating the provisions of §
111.011 shall, upon conviction thereof, and in addition to other penalties
provided, be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250.
(Prior Code, § 9-6-9)
   (C)   A violation of any provision of §
111.080 through 111.084 shall upon conviction thereof, be a petty offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-5-6)
(Ord. 2009-03, passed 10-5-2009)
CHAPTER 112: BILLIARDS, POOL HALLS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   License fees
   
112.03   Closing hours
   
112.04   Minors
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall keep within the village any billiard, pool, pigeon hole or
other like table or any ten-pin or bowling alley to be used or played upon by
others for hire or gain in any public place or room without first having
obtained a license therefor, under a penalty provided for by this code.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 LICENSE FEES.
   The charge for licenses under this chapter shall be as follows: for license
to keep billiard tables, pool tables, pigeon hole tables, ten-pin or bowling
alleys to be used for hire or gain in playing thereon, per year for each table
or alley, the sum of $48, or at the rate thereof for any time less than one
year and which may be paid in monthly installments at the beginning of each
month in advance for each and every such table or alley.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 112.03 CLOSING HOURS.
   All billiard and pool rooms, ten-pin and bowling alleys and all other rooms
and places for such games within the village shall be kept closed on Sunday and
shall be closed by 12:00 a.m. of all other days and kept closed until 5:00 a.m.
of the day following.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 MINORS.
   No person owning, keeping or having charge or control of any billiard or
pool room, ten-pin or bowling alley or other place of like nature within the
village shall permit or suffer any minor under the age of 18 years to engage in
any game or games therein, or to enter in or upon said premises, nor shall such
person permit any such act or conduct by any minor over the age of 18 years
without the written permission of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Applications
   
113.03   Fee
   
113.04   Stolen goods
   
113.05   Vehicles
   
113.06   Records
   
113.07   Purchase restrictions
   
113.08   Sales
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business on junk dealer or
to keep any junk shop, store or place for the purchase of sale of junk, rags,
old rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles, without
having obtained a license therefor as is hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 5 ILCS 5/11-42-3
§ 113.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the
provisions of this code relating to licenses.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 113.03 FEE.
   The fee to be paid for such licenses for an annual license shall be $400 and
an additional fee of $10 for each vehicle used in the conduct of such business;
provided that a junk dealer not maintaining a store or yard in the village
shall pay only a license of $1 per vehicle used in the conduct of such business
within the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 113.04 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any
goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen, shall
upon demand produce such articles or thing to any member of the law enforcement
agency having jurisdiction for examination.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 113.05 VEHICLES.
   Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his or her business,
shall bear thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and
proprietor thereof, and the village license number.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5)
§ 113.06 RECORDS.
   It shall be the duty of each junk dealer to keep a book in which shall be
written at the time of every purchase by him or her of any article or thing of
value, a description thereof, the name, age and residence of the person from
whom, and the day and hour when such purchase was made, and there shall also be
entered in said book the name of the person to whom and the time when such
article or thing of value was sold or disposed of, which book shall be at all
times open to the inspection of a village officer.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6)
§ 113.07 PURCHASE RESTRICTIONS.
   No purchase shall be made or any articles or things of value received from
any intoxicated person, or from any minor without having obtained the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 SALES.
   No article or thing of value purchased or received by any junk dealer shall
be sold or otherwise disposed of until at least one week from the date of its
purchase or receipt shall have elapsed.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES GENERALLY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Curfew
Air Guns
   
130.15   Definitions
   
130.16   Restrictions
   
130.17   Scope
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person less than 17 years of age to be
present at or upon any public assembly, building, place, street, highway or
other public place or way at the following times:
      (1)   For persons less than 13 years of age, between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day on any day of the week; or
      (2)   For persons at least 13 years of age, but not yet 17 years of age:
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00
a.m. on the following day; and
         (b)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
   (B)   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the child’s parent, legal guardian, custodian,
sibling, stepbrother or stepsister at least 18 years of age;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult at least 21 years of age approved by the
child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (3)   (a)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
            1.   Employment which the laws of this state authorize a person
less than 17 years of age to perform;
            2.   A school recreational activity;
            3.   A religious event;
            4.   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property
from an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
            5.   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights
protected under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or
Article 1, Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the state, or both; or
            6.   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity
that provides recreation, education, training or other care under the
supervision of one or more adult.
         (b)   A citation for violation of division (A) above may be issued by
a police officer only if he or she reasonably believes that a violation has
occurred and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) above apply.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, custodian or other person
to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to violate
provisions of division (A) above. It shall be a rebuttable presumption that a
person has violated this section if someone under 17 years of age of whom such
person has custody or control is present upon any public assembly, building,
business, street, highway or other public place or public way in violation of
division (A) above, and none of the defenses enumerated in division (B) above
apply.
Penalty, see §
130.99
AIR GUNS
§ 130.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN. All manner of weapons using air or springs as a propellant, such as
BB guns, air rifles, pellet guns and dart guns.
   CARRY. Includes transportation, either by vehicle or on the person, for
purposes of discharge within the village limits.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years of age.
   USE. The aiming and discharge of air guns within the village limits.
   VIOLATION. Includes both carrying and use of air guns and each shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1)
§ 130.16 RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to carry or use air guns within the
village limits at any time.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter are in no way intended to prohibit the use
of weapons for the protection of the person, home, business or in any other way
contravene state and federal laws regulating weapons. The provisions of this
subchapter are intended to be severable and the invalidation of one part shall
not affect the remainder.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of a violation of division §
130.01(C) above shall be fined $50 for the first violation in any 12-month
period; $75 for a second violation in any 12-month period; and $200 for a third
or subsequent violation in any 12-month period.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §§
130.15 through
130.17 shall be fined no more than $50, in accordance with state law.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   National Electrical Code
   
150.03   Plumbing Code
   
150.04   Uniform Housing Code
   
150.05   Mechanical Code
Building Permit System
   
150.20   Permit required
   
150.21   Completion of work heretofore authorized
   
150.22   Application form
   
150.23   Persons authorized to make application
   
150.24   Amendments to application
   
150.25   Action of application
   
150.26   Revocation of permit
   
150.27   Approval of permit in part
   
150.28   Permit for removal
   
150.29   Compliance with permit
   
150.30   Signature to permit
   
150.31   Expiration of permit
   
150.32   Permit costs
   
150.33   Building Official
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures, that
certain Building Code known as the Uniform Building Code, copyrighted by the
International Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the most
recent edition, as amended thereof, of which not less than one copy has been
and now is filed in the office of the Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions thereof
shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and other structures.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 150.02 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to any
building or structure within the limits of the village shall be in conformity
with the provisions set forth in the most recent National Electrical Code, as
amended, recommended by the American Insurance Association for electrical
wiring and apparatus, which is hereby adopted and incorporated as a part of
this code as fully as if set out at length herein, one copy of said Electrical
Code shall at all times be on file in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of the
village that certain Plumbing Code known as the National Plumbing Code, being
particularly the most recent edition thereof, and the whole thereof of which
not less than one copy has been and now is filed in the office of the Clerk,
and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation, alteration or
repairing of plumbing.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1)
§ 150.04 UNIFORM HOUSING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures, that
certain Housing Code known as the Uniform Housing Code, copyrighted by the
International Conference of Building Officials, being particularly the most
recent edition, as amended thereof, of which not less than one copy has been
and now is filed in the office of the Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein and the provisions thereof
shall be controlling in the construction of all buildings and other structures.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
§ 150.05 MECHANICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted as the complete Mechanical Code of the village, the
most recent edition of the Uniform Building Code, as prepared and edited by the
International Conference of Building Officials, it being the Uniform Mechanical
Code. Said Mechanical Code is, by this reference, duly adopted as fully and
completely as if set out in detail herein and of which not less than one copy
has been and now is filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
BUILDING PERMIT SYSTEMS
§ 150.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, remove or demolish, or to commence
the construction, alteration, removal or demolition of a building, mobile home
or structure, or install equipment for the operation of a building or structure
without first filing with the Building Official an application in writing and
obtaining a formal permit.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.21 COMPLETION OF WORK HERETOFORE AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing in this code shall require changes in the plans, construction or
designated use of a building or structure or portion thereof for which a lawful
permit has been heretofore issued or which has been otherwise lawfully
authorized, and the construction of which shall have been actually begun within
90 days after this code became effective and which entire building or structure
shall be completed, as authorized, within two years thereafter.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.22 APPLICATION FORM.
   An application for a permit shall be submitted in such form as the Building
Official may prescribe. Such application shall contain the full names and
addresses of the applicant and of the owner; and, if the owner is a corporate
body, of its responsible officer. The application shall also describe briefly
the proposed work and shall give such additional information as may be required
by the Building Official for an intelligent understanding of the work proposed.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.23 PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO MAKE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications shall be made by the owner or lessee, or agent of either,
or the architect, engineer or builder employed in connection with the proposed
work.
   (B)   If such application is made by a person other than the owner in fee,
it shall be accompanied by a duly verified affidavit of the owner in fee or the
person making the application that the proposed work is authorized by the owner
in fee and that the person making the application is authorized to make such
application.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.24 AMENDMENTS TO APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this code shall prohibit the filing of amendments to an
application or to a plan or other record accompanying same, at any time before
the completion of the work for which the permit was issued. Such amendments
shall be filed with and be deemed a part of the original application, if
approved before the certificate of occupancy has been issued, otherwise a new
application for the alteration shall be made and a permit secured.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.25 ACTION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Building Official shall examine applications for permits, within a
reasonable time after filing. If, after examination, he or she finds no
objections to the same and it appears that the proposed work will be in
compliance with the laws and ordinances applicable thereto and the proposed
construction of work will be safe, he or she shall approve such application and
issue a permit for the proposed work as soon as practicable.
   (B)   If his or her examination reveals otherwise, he or she shall reject
such application, note his or her findings in a written report to be attached
to the application and deliver a copy to the applicant.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.26 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Building Official may revoke a permit or approval issued in case there
has been any false statement or misrepresentation as to a material fact in the
application or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.27 APPROVAL OF PERMIT IN PART.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to prevent the Building Official
from issuing a permit for the construction of part of a building or structure
before the entire plans and detailed statements of said building or structure
have been submitted or approved; provided adequate information and detailed
statements have been submitted for the same and have been found to comply with
this code.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.28 PERMIT FOR REMOVAL.
   No permit to remove a building or structure shall be issued until notice of
application thereof shall have been given to the owners of property adjoining
the property upon which said building or structure is to be moved and to the
owners of wires or other impediments the temporary removal of which will be
necessary, and an opportunity has been given said owners to be heard upon such
application; nor until a bond in an adequate sum has been filed with the
officer of proper authority, to indemnify and save harmless the village from
damage.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.29 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   All work performed under a permit issued by the Building Official shall
conform to the approved application and plans and approved amendments thereto.
The location of all new construction as shown on the approval plot plan or an
approved amendment thereto, shall be strictly adhered to.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.30 SIGNATURE TO PERMIT.
   Every permit issued by the Building Official under the provisions of this
code shall have his or her signature affixed thereto, but this shall not
prevent him or her from authorizing a subordinate to affix the Building
Official’s signature.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.31 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit under which no work has commenced within six months after issuance
shall expire by limitation and a new permit shall be secured before work is
started.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.32 PERMIT COSTS.
   Permit costs, under this building permit system, shall be as follows:
   (A)   Permit to demolish: no cost; and
   (B)   Permit to construct, alter or improve a building or structure: $75.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
§ 150.33 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official appointed hereunder and charged with the
administration and enforcement of this building permit system is the President
of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 15-08, passed 8-3-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   VACATIONS
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        7-6-2009    Intergovernmental agreement between all county
                     municipalities
-        6-18-2012   Intergovernmental agreement with Friends Creek Special
                     Drainage District
                     Intergovernmental cooperation contract with the Illinois
2017     9-5-2017    Municipal League Risk Management Association for risk
                     management insurance
-        3-13-2023   Village hall user agreement
-        4-9-2023    Intergovernmental agreement with Nixon Township
-        4-9-2023    Intergovernmental agreement with Nixon Road District
2023-03  11-14-2023  Agreement with GFL Environmental for waste collection
                     service
                    
 
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
12-01    5-14-2012   Franchise with Ameren Illinois for gas utility services
-        5-1-2024    Illinois Rural Water contract for water utility services
                    
 
TABLE III: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        6-5-2017    Real estate purchase from Archer Daniels Midland Company
13-07    8-5-2013    Sale of 470 Maple Street to David R. Papner
-        6-13-2023   Property lease with Milenia Park Limited
                    
 
TABLE IV: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-Aug   8-4-2003    Vacating a portion of Walnut Street
06-02    - -2006     Vacating a portion of Maple Street
06-03    9-5-2006    Vacating a portion of North Street
14-05    5-5-2014    Vacating a portion of Chestnut Street and High Street
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Section Code Section
ILCS Section                Code Section
5 ILCS 5/11-42-3            113.01
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.        30.07
5 ILCS 140/1                31.002
5 ILCS 179/1 et seq.        34.02
                            31.005;
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.      34.23;
                            34.25
5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.    31.006
5 ILCS 430/5-15             31.005
5 ILCS 430/5-65             34.24
5 ILCS 430/10-10—430/10-4031.005
5 ILCS 430/15-10            34.23
5 ILCS 430/50-5             31.005
5 ILCS 430/70-5             31.005;
                            31.006
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)          31.005
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)          31.005
                            32.01;
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.      32.03;
                            32.07
30 ILCS 5/1-1-1 et seq.     10.99
35 ILCS 115/9               33.016
35 ILCS 120/2-27            33.065
35 ILCS 630/1 et seq.       33.065
35 ILCS 635/1 et seq.       33.065
35 ILCS 636/5-50            33.068
35 ILCS 638/1 et seq.       33.065
65 ILCS 5/1-2-6             10.02
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25         31.065
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-30         31.065
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-50(c)(1)   30.09
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1            33.046
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.4          33.015
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2            33.045;
                            33.999
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23           33.030
220 ILCS 5/9-221            33.065
220 ILCS 5/9-222            33.065
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1          33.065
235 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      111.003;
                            111.031
                            111.003;
235 ILCS 5/6-21             111.033;
                            111.056
410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.      33.030
625 ILCS 5/1-100.1 et seq.  70.02
625 ILCS 5/1-114            70.03
625 ILCS 5/1-125            70.03
625 ILCS 5/3-815            71.01
625 ILCS 5/6-100 et seq.    70.03
625 ILCS 5/7-601— 5/7-610 70.04
625 ILCS 5/12-201           70.04
625 ILCS 5/13-100 et seq.   70.03
625 ILCS 5/13-101— 5/13-1170.03
625 ILCS 5/15-101— 5/15-1170.03
625 ILCS 5/15-301— 5/15-3170.03
625 ILCS 5/16-102— 5/16-1070.03
720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.      111.056
730 ILCS 5/5-1-15           10.99
740 ILCS 174/15(a)          34.23
740 ILCS 174/15(b)          34.23
775 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.    34.21;
                            34.23
775 ILCS 5/6-101            34.23
820 ILCS 305/1 et seq.      32.04
820 ILCS 310/1 et seq.      32.04
820 ILCS 405/100 et seq.    34.02
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section   2024 Code Section
 
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2024 Code Section
1-1-1              10.01
1-1-2              10.02
1-1-3              10.03
1-1-4              10.04
1-1-5              10.05
1-2-1              10.06
1-2-2              10.07
1-2-3              10.08
1-3-1              10.09
1-3-2              10.10
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.11
1-4-3              10.12
1-4-4              10.13
1-5-1              31.020
1-5-2              31.021
1-5-3              31.022
1-5-4              31.023
1-5-5              31.024
1-5-6              31.025
1-5-7              31.026
1-5-8              31.027
1-6-1              30.01
1-6-2              30.02
1-6-3              30.03
1-6-4              30.04
1-6-5              30.05
1-6-6              30.06
1-6-7              30.07
1-6-8              10.14
1-6-9              10.99
1-6-10             30.08
1-6-11             30.09
1-6-12             30.10
1-6-13             30.11
1-6-14             30.12
1-6-15             30.13
1-6-16             30.14
1-6-17             30.15
1-7-1              31.040
1-7-3              31.042
1-7-5              31.044
1-7-6              31.045
1-7-8              31.047
1-7-9              31.048
1-7-10             31.049
1-7-11             31.050
1-8-1              31.065
1-8-2              31.066
1-8-3              31.067
1-8-4              31.068
1-8-5              31.069
1-8-6              31.070
1-8-7              31.071
1-8-8              31.072
1-8-9              31.073
1-9-1              31.085
2-1-1              94.01
2-1-2              94.02
2-1-3              94.03
2-1-4              94.04
2-1-5              94.05
2-1-6              94.06
2-1-7              94.07
2-1-8              94.08
2-1-9              94.09
2-1-10             94.10
3-1-1              110.01
3-1-2              110.02
3-1-3              110.03
3-1-4              110.04
3-1-5              110.05
3-1-6              110.06
3-1-7              110.07
3-1-8              110.08
3-2-1              112.01
3-2-2              112.02
3-2-3              112.03
3-2-4              112.04
3-4-1              33.015
3-4-3              33.017
3-5-1              113.01
3-5-2              113.02
3-5-3              113.03
3-5-4              113.04
3-5-5              113.05
3-5-6              113.06
3-5-7              113.07
3-5-8              113.08
4-1-1              150.01
4-2-1              150.02
4-3-1              150.03
4-4-1              150.04
4-5-1              150.05
5-1-1              92.01
6-2-1              91.01
6-2-2              91.02
6-2-3              91.03
6-2-5              91.05
6-2-6              91.06
6-2-8              91.99
6-3-1              130.15
6-3-2              130.16
6-3-3              130.17
7-1-1              93.01
7-1-2              93.02
7-1-3              93.03
7-1-4              93.04
7-1-5              93.05
7-1-6              93.06
7-1-7              93.07
7-1-8              93.08
7-1-9              93.09
7-1-10             93.10
7-1-11             93.11
7-1-12             93.12
7-1-13             93.13
7-1-14             93.14
7-1-15             93.15
7-1-16             93.16
7-1-18             93.18
7-1-19             93.21
7-1-20             93.22
7-1-21             93.23
7-1-22             93.24
7-2-1              93.35
7-2-2              93.36
7-2-3              93.37
7-2-4              93.38
7-2-5              93.39
7-3-1              50.01
7-3-2              50.02
7-3-3              50.03
7-3-9              50.09
7-3-16             50.16
7-3-17             50.17
7-3-18             50.18
7-3-19             50.19
7-3-21             50.21
7-3-22             50.22
7-3-23             50.23
7-3-24             50.24
7-3-25             50.25
7-3-26             50.26
7-3-27             50.27
7-3-28             50.28
7-3-29             50.29
7-3-30             50.30
7-3-31             50.31
7-3-32             50.32
7-3-33             50.33
7-3-34             50.34;
                   50.99
7-3-35             50.35
7-3-36             50.36
7-3-37             50.37
7-3-38             50.38
7-3-39             50.39
7-3-40             50.40
7-3-41             50.41
7-3-42             50.99
7-3-43             50.42
7-4-1              52.01
7-4-2              52.02
7-4-13             52.04
7-5-1              51.01
7-5-2              51.02
7-5-3              51.03
7-5-4              51.04
7-5-5              51.05
7-5-6              51.06
8-1-1              70.01
                   Ch. 72, Sch. I;
8-1-2              Ch. 72. Sch. II;
                   Ch. 73, Sch. I
8-1-3              70.02
8-1-4              70.03
8-2-1              90.01
8-2-2              90.02
8-2-3              90.03
8-2-4              90.04
8-2-5              90.05
8-2-6              90.06
8-2-7              90.07
8-2-8              90.08
8-2-9              90.09
8-2-10             90.10
8-2-11             90.11
8-2-12             90.12
8-2-13             90.13
8-3-1              70.15
8-3-2              70.16
8-3-3              70.17
8-4-1              71.01
9-1-1              111.001
9-1-2              111.002
9-2-1              111.003
9-2-2              111.003
9-2-3              111.003
9-2-4              111.003
9-2-5              111.003
9-2-6              111.003
9-2-7              111.003
9-2-8              111.003
9-2-9              111.003
9-2-10             111.003
9-2-11             111.003
9-2-12             111.003
9-2-13             111.003
9-2-14             111.003
9-2-15             111.003
9-2-16             111.003
9-3-1              111.030
9-3-2              111.031
9-3-3              111.032
9-3-4              111.033
9-3-5              111.034
9-3-6              111.035
9-3-7              111.036
9-4-1              111.050
9-4-2              111.051
9-4-3              111.052
9-4-4              111.053
9-4-5              111.054
9-4-6              111.055
9-4-7              111.056
9-4-8              111.057
9-4-9              111.058
9-4-10             111.059
9-4-11             111.060
9-4-12             111.061
9-4-13             111.062
9-4-14             111.063
9-4-15             111.064
9-4-16             111.065
9-4-17             111.066
9-4-18             111.067
9-5-1              111.080
9-5-2              111.081
9-5-3              111.082
9-5-4              111.083
9-5-5              111.084
9-5-6              111.999
9-6-1              111.004
9-6-2              111.005
9-6-3              111.006
9-6-4              111.007
9-6-5              111.008
9-6-7              111.009
9-6-8              111.010
9-6-9              111.011;
                   111.999
9-6-10             111.012
9-6-11             111.013
9-6-12             111.014
9-6-13             111.015
9-7-1              111.095
9-7-2              111.096
9-7-3              111.097
9-7-4              111.098
9-7-6              111.999
                   
 
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
05-07    10-3-2005   34.01
—      12-6-2010   31.003
12-00    2-6-2012    31.052
14-01    3-3-2014    34.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
98-1     2-2-1998    33.003
99-      12- -1999   31.006
                     93.21—
00-      6-5-2000    93.24;
                     93.35—
                     93.39
01-04    10-1-2001   32.01—
                     32.09
01-05    11-5-2001   Ch. 72, Sch. II
02-04    7-1-2002    10.99
02-05    8-5-2002    93.18
02-06    9- -2002    Ch. 72, Sch. II
03-Aug   8-4-2003    T.S.O. IV
2004-05  6-7-2004    31.005
05-02    5-2-2005    93.35
06-02    - -2006     T.S.O. IV
06-03    9-5-2006    T.S.O. IV
-        7-6-2009    T.S.O. I
                     111.001—
                     111.015;
                     111.030—
                     111.036;
                     111.050—
2009-03  10-5-2009   111.067;
                     111.080—
                     111.084;
                     111.095—
                     111.098;
                     111.999
09-04    11-2-2009   33.065—
                     33.069
                     33.045—
10-07    1-4-2010    33.050;
                     33.999
10-10    6-7-2010    Ch. 73 Sch. I
10-12    8-2-2010    30.09
10-14    9-15-2010   92.02
10-17    11-1-2010   10.99
11-01    2-7-2011    34.02
11-04    8-4-2011    71.01
11-05    10-3-2011   52.01—
                     52.04
11-07    12-5-2011   Ch. 72, Sch. II
12-01    5-14-2012   T.S.O. II
-        6-18-2012   T.S.O. I
13-02    5-6-2013    31.052
13-07    8-5-2013    T.S.O. III
14-02    4-7-2014    34.04
14-05    5-5-2014    T.S.O. IV
15-03    4-6-2015    34.06
15-08    8-3-2015    150.21—
                     150.33
17-02    3-6-2017    31.002
-        6-5-2017    T.S.O. III
2017-    7-24-2017   93.36;
                     93.37
2017-    9-5-2017    T.S.O. I
17-09    9-5-2017    31.051
17-10    9-5-2017    31.001
17-11    9-5-2017    31.028
2017-    11-6-2017   33.001
17-17    12-4-2017   34.20—
                     34.25
                     91.01—
                     91.03;
18-02    3-5-2018    91.05—
                     91.08;
                     91.99
2018-05  3-5-2018    70.04
19-01    2-4-2019    Ch. 72, Sch. II
2019-03  9-9-2019    30.17
20-01    3-2-2020    33.030;
                     33.031
21-04    12-6-2021   30.06
2022-02  9-13-2022   30.16
-        3-13-2023   T.S.O. I
-        4-9-2023    T.S.O. I
-        4-9-2023    T.S.O. I
-        6-13-2023   T.S.O. III
2023-02  11-14-2023  93.19
2023-03  11-14-2023  T.S.O. I
2023-06  12-12-2023  31.004
2023-05  1-9-2024    93.20
-        5-1-2024    T.S.O. II
                    
 
